# Site: https://www.uca.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 500
# --------

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk:
Take a look through the options below and we'll send you directly to the relevant page
Every year Animation students welcome all creatures great and small to the UCA for a life drawing session.
This year, we welcomed the animals back to see their pawtraits for themselves...
Discover UCA for yourself:
Produced by Remarkable Entertainment and shot at Maidstone Studios, students on UCA’s TV Production course worked on the show as part of their second-year placement unit.
“I worked on The Genius Game as a runner, which was an invaluable chance for me to work with television professionals and see what the industry is really like.
The course taught me what to expect and how to navigate the role – looking after the crew and contestants on the show” – Adam Parks, BA (Hons) Television Production student,
“The course and its unique setting facilitates great access to work experience, such as Genius Games” – Mike Rymer, Programme Director and Senior Lecturer, Television Production.
We caught up with UCA alum and executive creative director for Apple’s Media Arts Lab, Stephen Hancock, who led a workshop with students across the University to explore how he works, and discover how Apple approaches creative problem-solving.
There is a lovely quote, “I wrote you a long letter because I didn’t have time to write you a short one.” So, be really succinct in what you’re going to say.
Take everything out and only put back what you think is right.
Be really immediate and super clear.”
At UCA diversity is our strength and we believe in the power of art and creativity to connect, not divide.
We want everyone to feel respected and included, and we embrace our students’ cultures and differences.
We understand that personal and societal challenges can affect us all, and we want to ensure that UCA remains a safe and supportive space for our community.
Everyone is welcome at UCA.
Bri, a third-year UCA Illustration student, has transformed two huge wall spaces at the Maidstone branch of Zizzi, using a colour palette inspired by the local area.
It’s the second time this year that UCA students have put their talents to the test, after Ruth Blacklock and Izzy Barrett transformed Zizzi in Farnham.
Bri was later commissioned to design and paint a mural on the UCA Farnham campus...
Entrepreneur Kongphat, who is studying BA (Hons) Architecture at UCA Canterbury, attended COP28 to represent his tech start-up Phytavaren Technology as its inventor and chief technology officer.
He has created an Interlocking Semi-Calcite Brick, which won the 2023 This is Cool Challenge, run by Sustainable Energy for All (SEforALL).
Its clever design, including an interlocking feature, also means the assembly process is easier, quicker and uses less plaster in its construction.
My goal is to bridge the gap between innovative design and sustainable technology, potentially leading or contributing to projects that redefine the way we approach construction and environmental sustainability
Each year, we’re privileged to be able to share our graduates’ incredible work with the world.
And now’s your chance to take a look.
View our online showcase 2025 Grad Show details
What’s it like being a UCA student?
That’s a big question.
Get some answers from people who are studying right here, right now.
Chat to a student
We are the second highest-ranked specialist creative university in the UK for 2024, according to The Guardian.
We are the third highest-ranked specialist creative university in the UK in The Times / Sunday Times and Daily Mail rankings for 2024.
UCA is the UK's top specialist art and design university for world-leading research outputs in the most recent Research Excellence Framework.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/opendays:
Explore our campuses, meet with academics and student ambassadors, attend course talks and have your questions answered at one of our Open Days.
Currently Viewing:
Select a subject and course below to find the right campus for you, choose your preferred date, and complete your booking.
Can’t make it on on Saturday 4 October?
Don’t worry, we’ll be hosting more Open Days on Wednesday 12 November, Saturday 29 November 2025 and Saturday 10 January.
Sign up to be the first to know when bookings open for future events .
Not sure what to study?
Explore our subject areas to find the right course for you!
You can also view the full list of courses offered on the Canterbury , Epsom and Farnham campuses by using our course finder.
Registration opens at 9.30am for a 10am start with the last campus and accommodation tours leaving at 2.30pm.
Form loading, please wait...
Registration opens at 10.30am for a 11am start with the last campus and accommodation tours leaving at 2.30pm.
If you can't make it to an Open Day our Virtual Tour will give you the chance to explore our campuses, see the facilities you'll be using and view examples of work created by our creative graduates.
If you want to visit one of our campuses but aren’t able to make it to an Open Day you might be interested in one of our guided campus tours.
These one-hour tours are led by a UCA student ambassador, a current student who has unique insight into life at UCA.
Come armed with questions as our ambassadors will be happy to answer them!
If you have applied to study at UCA you will get a chance to tour our campus on your applicant day.
Further details can be found in the applicant portal .
Book Your Tour Now
New Dover Road Canterbury Kent CT1 3AN
Tel: +44 (0)1227 817 302
Ashley Road Epsom Surrey KT18 5BE
Tel: +44 (0)1372 728 811
Falkner Road Farnham Surrey GU9 7DS
Tel: +44 (0)1252 722 441
By road
You'll find our campus on the outskirts of the city's ancient walls - use CT1 3AN on your sat nav.
When you arrive, bear right into the university car park.
We have limited parking here - if you have special requirements (i.e you're a blue badge holder), call the campus + 44 (0)1227 817 302 to arrange your visit.
We recommend that you use the Park and Ride car park on New Dover Road (postcode CT1 3EJ).
The bus journey to the campus is about 5 minutes, let the driver know where you are going and they will let you know the right stop.
For information about all the car parks available, visit the Canterbury City Council website.
By rail
Services run from London Victoria to Canterbury East, or you can depart from London St.
Pancras International or London Waterloo East to Canterbury West, changing at Ashford International if necessary.
Each station is a walk or short taxi ride from campus.
Find out more about services on the National Rail website.
Eurostar passengers can get off the train at Ashford International in Kent.
This station has direct rail links to Canterbury.
By air
It takes between one and two hours to drive from London Heathrow, Gatwick, Stansted and Luton airports to any of UCA's campuses.
The same journeys take between two and three hours by train.
There are rail and coach connections from all airports via central London to all our campuses.
By sea
The English Channel ferry crossing arrives at Dover and the Eurotunnel at Folkestone.
Dover and Folkestone are both less than 30 minutes from Canterbury.
Address and directions
UCA Epsom Ashley Road Epsom Surrey KT18 5BE
How to find us
You'll find our campus on the outskirts of the town centre, close to the Ashley Centre shopping mall.
Use the postcode K518 5BE on your sat nav.
Parking is limited, but exceptions can be made for blue badge holders - anyone with special requirements should contact the campus directly on +44 (0)1372 728 811 to arrange this.
The nearest car parks to the campus are Depot Road (postcode KT17 4RJ) or at the Ashley Centre (postcode KT18 5AL), both are about a five-minute walk away.
For details of public car parks nearby please visit the Epsom and Ewell Borough Council website.
Epsom station is a five-minute walk to the campus, and you can get there from London Waterloo or London Victoria.
Visit the National Rail website for times and prices.
If travelling from Eurostar and arriving at London St.
Pancras International, then take the southbound Victoria Line tube to London Victoria, or change at Oxford Circus (Bakerloo line, southbound) to London Waterloo.
There are rail connections from all the airports via central London to Epsom station, where you can walk or take a taxi to the campus.
UCA Farnham Falkner Road Farnham Surrey GU9 7DS
You'll find our campus just on the edge of the town centre, close to the Lion & Lamb Walk.
Use the postcode GU9 7DS on your sat nav.
Parking is limited, but exceptions can be made for blue badge holders - anyone with special requirements should contact the campus directly on +44 (0)1252 722 441 to arrange this.
We recommend you use the two pay and display car parks adjacent to the campus - the Upper and Lower Hart car parks (postcode GU9 7HA).
Services to Farnham run from London Waterloo (via Woking).
The station is less than a 15-minute walk to the University.
It takes between one and two hours to drive from Heathrow, Gatwick, Stansted or Luton airports to UCA Farnham.
There are rail and coach connections from all airports via central London to all UCA campuses.
The Maidstone Studios Vinters Park Maidstone Kent ME14 5NZ
You'll find Maidstone Studios tucked away from the main road, use postcode ME14 5NZ on your sat nav.
On-site parking is free.
The nearest train station is Maidstone East (there are two train stations in Maidstone).
Trains from London to Maidstone depart from London Victoria station and London Bridge station.
We've pulled together some resources that will hopefully help you to support your loved ones as they embark on university life.
View the parents guide

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses:
Clearing Availability

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/clearing:
Call now or apply online to start your creative journey at UCA this September
Accommodation available for all campuses and bursaries of up to £700 available for commuters
There’s still time to join our vibrant, supportive community for your creative degree.
Clearing is an opportunity for you to explore your options one final time before September, whether you’re applying to university for the first time or have already applied elsewhere.
Call: 01252 918 240 Apply Online
From Architecture and Film Production to Marketing, Fashion, Game Design, Business and more, discover your creative future through Clearing at UCA.
View all Clearing courses Entry Requirements
Accept your offer through main Clearing and we’re able to guarantee accommodation if your course is taught at our Epsom or Canterbury campuses.
Accommodation for our Farnham campus is still available but is offered on a first-come, first-served basis.
Accommodation for Clearing applicants
Applying through Clearing and plan on commuting to university?
You may be eligible to receive a bursary of up to £700 to help with travel costs.
See if you’re eligible
Clearing is open to anyone looking to start university in September 2025.
You might be applying to UCA or university for the first time, reconsidering the course or universities you have applied to, or exploring your options after results day.
No matter your circumstances, our team are here to support you through the process and help you find the perfect course for your goals.
And as a creative university, we know you’re more than just grades – your passion, personality, and portfolio will be taken into consideration alongside your certificates.
Read our Clearing guide
Fees & funding
Advice for applicants
An open letter to parents & carers
Guide for teachers
UCA Canterbury
UCA Epsom
UCA Farnham
Maidstone TV Studios
Our Admissions team are on-hand to answer any question you have about UCA or the Clearing process.
Submit an Enquiry

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/subject:
Oscar-winning filmmakers, world-renowned fashion designers, actors in feature films, celebrity jewellers and Turner Prize nominees are just some of the high-profile graduates from the University for the Creative Arts.
As a specialist creative university, we have created a unique community for our students, where like-minded people can share in the creative process and inspire one another.
So you’ll find fine artists studying with budding filmmakers, and fashion designers working alongside architects.
And whichever course you choose, you’ll benefit from exposure to a range of disciplines.
At UCA, you can choose from hundreds of courses covering every kind of creative specialism.
Follow the links below to find out more about the subjects that interest you.
Animation
Architecture
Business & Management
Communication & Media
Creative Technology
Crafts
Fashion & Textiles
Film & TV
Fine Art
Games
Graphic Design
Illustration
Interior & Spatial Design
Marketing
Music
Performing Arts
Photography
Product Design

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/subject/animation:
If you are looking to make your mark as an animator, illustrator or computer animation artist, our BA and MA animation degrees will help you get there.
You might see your future as a director, storyboard artist, book illustrator or character designer – whatever your ambitions in this dynamic field, our courses will give you the tools and confidence you need.
As you study, you'll link up with students on other courses to collaborate on exciting projects and competitions, and benefit from the knowledge and wisdom of visiting lecturers and industry experts.
Working in our state of the art suites and studios , you'll use the latest software and innovations to create your work.
Over the years we are proud to say we've taught some of the biggest names in the industry, including BAFTA-winner Grant Orchard, Golden Globe winner Chris Butler and the creators of Peppa Pig and the Compare the Meerkat characters.
Ross Stringer, who graduated from the BA (Hons) Animation course in 2020, won British Short Animation for Crab Day.
After graduating from UCA Farnham, I went back to live with my parents, using my hour of outdoor time walking around my hometown of Great Yarmouth, walking along the beach, looking at buildings, and people.
That summoned up all these memories of how I grew up.
Crab Day is the story of a little boy who, as part of a fishing community’s annual ritual, must kill his first crab to become a man and gain his father’s approval.
Ross met his partner, Ciara Kerr, whilst studying at UCA.
Ciara’s short animation, Homemaker, has received international acclaim, winning Best Animation at the This is England Film Festival in Rouen and Best Film and Outstanding Award at the International Student Film and Video Festival in Beijing.
Ross screened Crab Day to staff and students at UCA Farnham just a few days before the ceremony.
For her final project, Izzy chose to create a hand-drawn 2D animation film, called Changing Room, based on her own experiences with body image.
The film shows a character who Izzy describes as having “hip dips, leg hair, saggy boobs and fat,” who goes swimming.
With this project, I'm proud of myself for leaving my comfort zone and making something personal...
[The film] does seem to resonate.
People who’ve watched it tell me they've tried on their swimsuit and twisted and turned in the mirror and thought of my character, and I love that.
I hope they remember the ending where the character is at peace with her body.
Izzy’s next goal is to make another body-positive film, and hopefully a sex-positive one too.
For me, [animation] is the most freeing medium and it's a lot easier to express what you want to.
One of life’s great questions – where DO all the socks go?
is answered in wondrous ways by BA (Hons) Computer Animation Arts graduate Kimberley Davis, who is one of hundreds of graduates exhibiting their work at this year’s Graduation Shows.
Her charming short film entitled “Where do all the socks go?”, sees hidden creatures steal odd socks for comfort while occupants sleep.
At first this was just meant to be a creature design project but evolved to become a short animation exploring odd occurrences that happen around the home...
When coming to the final stages of the project, I decided to leave the animation open-ended to allow further adventures!
'The next steps will be to continue honing my skills as a character animator while applying for animator roles.
I'd also like to keep pursuing my own projects so I can keep developing skills.'
David Hulin graduated in 1998 with a degree in Animation, which at the time was the only degree of its kind offered in Europe.
Since then, he’s gone on to become a powerhouse in CGI animation and VFX for hundreds of commercials for the US market and has worked on a number of films and television shows too, including Harry Potter and Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt.
When we won the account, the GEICO gecko was already in existence – they just wanted it to be more expressive and be the star of the commercials...
We were booked to do nine commercials, but by the time I left Framestore we’d made 99 commercials!
David is now founder and Managing Director of Free Range VFX in New York, which has clients including LEGO and Kellogg’s, but is also working separately on its own original animated content.
I remember the horror of my graduation show, answering questions from people while you stand by your work – it’s very exposing and intimidating.
But I’ve found human connection really does help, as well as being persistent (without being annoying!)
Animation 2023 Showreel
Please Don't Eat The Art: Animal Life Drawing at UCA
Animation portfolio advice
Watch the 2024 Grad Show highlights
There’s still time to apply for this September!
We have places available through Clearing right now – get in touch and we can help you to find a course you’ll love.
There's no upcoming webinars.
Please check back again soon.
Animation is one of the most significant and rapidly expanding media fields, with an enormous range of career opportunities.
Some of these include:
Many well-known studios have been set up by our alumni, including:
This gives our course very solid links to a vibrant industry, and we enjoy connections with a range of creative talent, studios and potential employers.
"In my first year I was petrified to pitch my ideas - by the third year, I couldn't wait to do it.
I'm so proud of the achievements that have come from my animation projects.
Between them, two films I made in my second year have won seven awards worldwide."
Sinéad Stoddard BA (Hons) Animation

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/subject/architecture:
Our architecture courses are ranked joint 3rd for teaching quality and 2nd for student experience in The Times/Sunday Times for 2025.
If you're passionate about architecture or interior design, our architecture degree courses—including BA, BSc, MA, and MArch degrees —will help you turn your vision into reality.
Whether you aspire to be an architect, interior designer, set and prop designer, product designer, or work in creative computing, our architecture courses provide the skills, confidence, and industry connections to launch a successful career.
At one of the leading architecture universities, you'll gain hands-on experience in state-of-the-art facilities while learning from expert academics, visiting lecturers, and industry professionals.
With a focus on both theory and practice, we offer different types of architecture courses designed to expand your knowledge and career opportunities.
Ready to shape the future of design?
Discover your path with a degree in architecture today.
Architecture at UCA
Architecture portfolio advice
After graduating from one of our Architecture or design degrees, you'll have the skills and contacts to launch your career in a range of areas in the industry, including:
Canterbury: Design Studio & Modelling Workshop
Canterbury: TrakLab
"The campus facilities were excellent and the staff were all really helpful.
After doing my foundation course, UCA was the only place I applied to for the Architecture degree, because I loved the atmosphere and the supportive relationships between tutors and students." Connie Latham, BA (Hons) Architecture
Connie Latham

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/subject/business-management:
At UCA, our unique Business School for the Creative Industries offers undergraduate and postgraduate business and management degrees that are specifically tailored to creative sectors - from fashion and music to events and luxury.
In our state-of-the-art Business School at UCA Epsom , you'll work alongside peers to broaden your business horizons, learning the fundamentals of business together and building the specialist knowledge that will take you to the top of your chosen career.
As we’re signed up to the United Nations' Principles for Responsible Management Education (PRME), your learning will focus on the UN PRME’s six key principles– purpose, values, method, research, partnership and dialogue – and emphasise ethics, inclusivity and sustainability in business.
Along the way, you'll be guided by our academics and a host of industry experts, gaining unique insight from visiting lecturers and valuable experience from industry projects and work placements.
For most of our undergraduate degrees, you have the option to extend your studies by a year to undertake a Professional Practice Year in the workplace in your third year of study.
Studying Fashion Business at UCA
Second year Fashion Management & Marketing student Eve Jappy is settling into her new life in Amsterdam whilst on her work placement...
7.30am: My alarm goes off and I jump in the shower, getting myself ready for a full day in the office at Calvin Klein.
The first thing I had to get used to in Amsterdam was that everyone cycles around the city.
So, of course I got myself a bike and now I feel like I fit in with the locals!
9.00am: I head up to the sixth floor to the Calvin Klein Creative Hub, where I work with the visual merchandising, creative services, store design and architecture teams.
10.30am: We have a team meeting between the visual merchandisers and store design.
I’m learning so much from sitting in on meetings and listening to everyone’s creative processes.
3.00pm: This afternoon I’ve been assisting on a photoshoot for some of the new women’s lingerie range.
This has been a great experience for me, working alongside photographers, stylists and the shoot manager.
It’s a lot of work and running around, which can be tiring, but I’m having a great time and learning so much from everyone.
8.00pm: I head out for dinner a beautiful restaurant called MaMa Kelly with some girls from work.
In my spare time, I’ve been trying to explore as much of the city as possible.
So far, De Pijp has been my favourite neighbourhood.
It’s got a very cool, young and trendy vibe.
I have learnt so much from the Calvin Klein team so far on my placement.
I would really encourage anyone to do a placement abroad while studying if you get the chance.
It may seem scary but it is so worth it as you get to experience different cultures and nationalities.
I am so thankful that my course leader really encouraged us to put a lot of effort into our LinkedIn and digital portfolios, because it helped to get me noticed in the industry and opened up this fantastic opportunity.
Final year BA (Hons) Fashion Business and Management student, Nicole Clachar, has just completed a year in industry at Walt Disney as Website Merchandising Intern for the Disney Store website.
There have been a lot of highlights during my year.
Professionally being able to network in such a vast company and personally, getting the opportunity to volunteer for amazing charities such as Rise Against Hunger and Make a Wish.
“I have seen many different parts of the industry that I would like to explore more and have built my skillset whilst on placement.
I look forward to implementing what I've learnt in my final year and really making the most of what's available at UCA.”
I would absolutely recommend an industry placement, it gives you hands on experience and networking opportunities that you just cannot get in a classroom.
It also creates new opportunities and has updated my CV and LinkedIn presence.
Students on UCA's BA (Hons) Events & Festivals Management course continue to benefit from a now three-year partnership with the Royal Albert Hall, where they undertake a field trip, and complete a task set by the iconic London venue.
Students are tasked with organising an event for The Elgar Room.
Events proposed have included a sip and paint, an immersive 19th Century inspired High Tea and a fusion night celebrating Chinese and Western music and food.
“We all had such a great time, honestly, it was a lovely experience - and a shout out to our tour guide, Ed, who kept us comfortable and engaged every step of the way,” said student Theodore Roppas.
Lecturer Holly Thompson added: “For the past three years, our students have enjoyed an invaluable experience with the Royal Albert Hall.
Through this collaboration, UCA students gain unique insights and hands-on experience.
The results of the pitches are always impressive - our students consistently rise to the challenge and deliver standout proposals!”
Our business courses will help prepare you for a huge range of career opportunities.
You might make a career in:
"Picking a business degree tailored to the creative industries brings your projects to life and helps you stand out from other candidates when moving into your career."
Gemma Theobald BA (Hons) Fashion Business & Management
We have links to some of the biggest names in the industry, including Ogilvy & Mather, JWT, TBWA and Wieden+Kennedy.
Our business degrees are part of a wider portfolio of business courses that are tailored specifically for the creative industries, where you'll work alongside your peers in specialist business seminars.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/subject/communication-media:
From traditional to digital media, our communications and media degrees will prepare you to make your career in this fascinating sector.
You might want to work in radio, edit a magazine, break stories in a bustling newsroom, or bring brands to life on social media.
Whatever your ambition, we will give you the skills to source great stories and tell them your way.
You'll collaborate with students on other courses and create your work using industry-grade facilities , from radio studios, broadcast newsrooms, video and photography studios to high-spec digital media suites.
Our courses have strong links with leading media figures who will offer you professional insights, and you'll benefit from work experience opportunities with television companies, radio stations, PR agencies and fashion brands.
Graduates from our communications and media degrees go on to a wide range of roles, including:
"I definitely enjoy the hands-on aspects of the course, like creating a comedy sketch or short documentary.
I really enjoy the freedom - we can do our own thing and take charge, giving us a more realistic sense of what the industry is like."
Lauren Bean

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/subject/creative-technology:
The rising demand and rapid development of technology shows no signs of stopping – if you want to be at the forefront of the next age of computing, our creative technology degree courses will get you there.
Our suite of creative technology degrees – whether undergraduate or Master’s - will help you forge new pathways in the worlds of coding, AI, augmented reality, virtual reality and interactivity, providing you with the technological skills but also the creative freedom to express yourself in innovative new ways.
While you’ll be able to set your foundations in our extensive computer technology facilities, you’ll also have the rare opportunity to blend your work with that of others across our Farnham campus, from working with acting students on motion capture, to exploring the art world through a digital lens.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/subject/crafts:
If making is your passion, our BA and MA Crafts degrees give you the chance to truly immerse yourself in your chosen discipline and gain the skills to turn it into an exciting career.
Whether you want to design jewellery, create practical or thought-provoking ceramics or glass, or push the boundaries in textiles practice, we have a course to suit you.
Alongside our academic experts, you'll also have access to our incredible range of specialist facilities , from weaving rooms and dye labs to throwing rooms, our kiln and hot shop, and 3D printing technologies, to advance your practice.
Emily, who graduated in 2019 with a BA in Glass, Ceramics, Jewellery & Metalwork, won the award for her Chaos Brooch from her most recent jewellery collection, Chaos//Catharsis .
There are many stages to go through to get to an effective finish.
It can make a big difference to how impactful the piece is and how well the craftsmanship quality is perceived...
The satisfaction of achieving a good polish is incredible.
Emily was inspired to come to UCA to study jewellery after looking around the crafts school’s workshops, studios, and facilities and seeing the possibilities for working with different materials.
Her practice has always been about humanity – taking issues and finding a silver lining.
I may not have the ability to be a doctor or politician, but I can use my platform to help inform folks and give them a handy talking point, to make them smile and to raise money for worthy causes along the way with the skills that I do have.
Former UCA student and researching ceramicist Ben Pearey has become the latest in a long line of acclaimed UCA makers to reach the very top.
Ben has been featured in a new book and exhibition about the future of the craft alongside UK greats such as Alison Britton, Martin Smith, Ken Eastman and Carol McNicol.
Ben is spotlighted in Contemporary British Ceramics: Beneath the Surface by Ashley Thorpe.
Accompanying the book launch was an exhibition at Eton College.
[I was sent] a photo during the installation of the exhibition and my work on the wall was next to some vessels by Ken Eastman, whose work I have coveted for years and years!
There are so many artists I have looked up to for inspiration in the show...
It’s been a great thing to be part of, and I’ll be forever grateful to Ashley for everything he’s done.
Ben now shares his skills through teaching at the University of Arkansas, where he is also studying their Studio Art MFA.
I always felt like I was a ceramics rebel at UCA - ignoring typical ‘rules’ of ceramics - but I gained the foundational skills and modes of thinking there that were so important in shaping how I think about my practice today...
This was in a large part thanks to the inﬂuence of the faculty and visiting artists there, who both challenged me and supported me.
Stephen graduated from the Medway College of Design, one of the foundations of UCA.
His fine jewellery has been seen adorning the likes of Cher, Olly Alexander, Emilia Clarke, Jennifer Lopez,, Taylor Swift, Sandra Bullock, Lizzo and Robbie Williams.
My fondest memories really are the excitement of being in a workshop, with the noises, the smells, the flames...
That excitement stayed with me all through my studies and beyond into my career.
When I walk into a workshop it still feels like that.
Everything is a bit grubby and yet what comes out is so precise and beautiful and what people treasure forever.
In 2022 he famously co-designed Megan Fox's engagement ring with her then-fiancé Machine Gun Kelly.
[When I joined the industry] if you did want to be creative and design driven, you had to face the fact that it was a niche market.
If we were to start Stephen Webster today, I think we would probably find a lot more places that our jewellery could go than I could 30 years ago.
'We're in an industry where craft and skills will give you the authenticity and credibility you need...
It's so difficult to be recognised if you’re not fully conversive in what it takes to make a piece of jewellery.'
Study Crafts at UCA
Alumni Story: Abigail Marsh
Ceramics and Glass portfolio advice
Jewellery and Silversmithing portfolio advice
After graduating from one of our Crafts degrees, you'll have the skills, knowledge and confidence to launch your career in a range of areas, including:
Canterbury: ArtMaker Studios
Farnham: Ceramic Studios
All campuses: Culture Labs
Farnham: Design & Digital Workshops
Farnham: Elemental Craftworks Studios
Epsom Letterpress Studio
"We have fantastic facilities and a great sense of community within our course.
I always feel I’m being challenged creatively, and the support and knowledge of the tutors and technicians help me to produce work I am really proud of."
Heidi Nicholson BA (Hons) Ceramics & Glass

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/subject/fashion-textiles:
Whether you dream of launching a sustainable fashion brand, curating editorial photography for top magazines, or building your own retail empire, our fashion and textiles courses will set you on the path to success.
At UCA, we offer a range of fashion degrees and textiles courses, designed to give you hands-on experience and industry insights.
You’ll learn from academic and industry experts, take part in competitions and live briefs, and develop the skills and professional connections needed to thrive in the fashion industry.
Our fashion and textiles degree courses are based at UCA Epsom, where we've recently launches new fashion design, digital fashion and atelier facilities at the newly opened Wells Building —providing you with cutting-edge spaces to create, collaborate, and innovate.
Join one of the top fashion universities in the UK and explore different types of fashion courses to shape your future in this exciting industry.
In his final year of study at UCA, BA (Hons) Fashion graduate Zeshaan Iqbal secured a scholarship with Dior, via the British Fashion Council.
He's just finishing an MA in Menswear at the University of Westminster.
The scholarship included funding for his studies, mentorship from Dior and access to British Fashion Council events.
I want to get experience in the field and continue to expand my network and skills.
I am eager to see what it means to practice as a designer in the fashion industry.
Zeshaan looks back at his time at UCA fondly.
“I had an incredible community there between other students and the staff.
I learned a lot had the support I needed and have relationships I will carry forward indefinitely.”
Discover more about UCA
Kreszend, who complete her Fashion Design degree in 2019, took up hair styling for part-time work to boost her income during her studies.
Her ability to work with Afro hair specifically saw her quickly gain a host of clients across London
My biggest achievement so far since graduating from UCA would be being the head hairstylist on a Channel 4 show and assisting on a shoot in Vogue Italia
One of the magazine covers Kreszend has styled for
If I had any advice for current students, it would be to use as many resources, and as much work space and library time they can while at university...
There is no right or wrong way to start your career - the essential thing is that you start!
UCA at London Fashion Week
Fashion portfolio advice
Textiles portfolio advice
UCA Fashion at Graduate Fashion Week 2025
Watch the Epsom Grad Show highlights
Hope Macaulay, Printed Textiles alumni, tells us about her time at UCA
Jodie Deadman, Fashion alumni, tells us about her time at UCA
After graduating from one of our Fashion & Textiles degrees, you'll have the skills and contacts to launch your career in a range of areas in the industry, including:
Epsom: Digital Fashion & Print Studios
Epsom: Fashion Design Atelier
Epsom: Sewing & Fabrication Workshop
“The course, the workshops, the supervisors — they all encouraged me to think outside the box and push design boundaries.
My time at UCA was busy and intense, but beyond exciting!
I learned so much and it was great being somewhere that encouraged me to be my creative best.”
Hefina Williams BA (Hons) Fashion Design
Our Fashion courses offer the professional facilities and experience you need to enter the fast-moving fashion industry, where a wealth of new opportunities awaits.
Our MA Digital Fashion offers students the chance to design entirely virtual garments, and is the first of its kind in the world.
Students on our fashion courses have access to the latest technology, including our Gerber Suite.
Every year our students enjoy success at the Graduate Fashion Foundation Awards and take part in London Fashion Week.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/subject/film-tv:
If you dream of building a career in filmmaking, television production, acting, screenwriting or set and costume design, our film and television degrees will give you the knowledge and skills to succeed.
At UCA, our film courses and TV degrees give you the skills, experience, and industry connections to launch a successful career in film and television.
Our campuses are perfectly located to offer work experience and networking opportunities, helping you build valuable industry contacts from day one.
You'll have access to state-of-the-art, industry-grade facilities , including our dedicated Film and Media Centre at UCA Farnham, featuring specialist spaces for audio and video capture, control rooms, a dubbing theatre, and rehearsal and performance areas.
If you're studying Television Production, you'll be based at Maidstone Television Studios, one of the UK’s leading TV production hubs.
As a graduate of our film production degree or film and television degree, you’ll join a network of award-winning alumni—including Oscar and BAFTA winners—who have made their mark in the industry.
Our students regularly earn prestigious awards for their work, showcasing the strength of our film production courses.
We’ve also partnered with BAFTA and Albert to integrate sustainability and industry best practices into our film production university degrees, ensuring you graduate with the essential training to step confidently into the world of film and TV.
The Kodak/NAHEMI Commercial Awards are a competition for student filmmakers to make a 30 second commercial from one roll of 400ft negative film stock.
This year, briefs were provided by the advertising agencies McCann, Libertine and TBWA.
This opportunity for students to shoot on film, a rarity in today’s digital age, gave students a deeper connection to the roots of cinema, transforming the project into both a learning experience and a celebration of the medium.
Students from across Film, Media and Performing Arts courses in Farnham recently joined the Television Production elective in Immersive Production and were treated to a peek behind the scenes at the BBC.
They were shown around Broadcasting House in London by Farnham alumni Thomas Doukinitsas, who is now a Motion Designer for BBC News.
“Extremely insightful and I was grateful to have the opportunity to see what the news profession entails.”
“[It was] a great chance to step behind-the-scenes.”
Film Production alum Kate Herron has directed major television series from Sex Education to Loki, but her most recent achievement was writing a new episode for Doctor Who.
She and co-writer Briony Redman penned the popular episode, Rogue, starring Jonathan Groff and the new Doctor, Ncuti Gatwa.
The main focus with Rogue was making sure he was a worthy match for the Doctor, in terms of lore we were mainly having fun and inventing a new villain and a new love interest in Rogue.
It was very joyful getting to add to this already rich world.
Kate said she and Briony wrote the episode with Ncuti in mind, even though he had not been cast as the new Doctor at that time.
"It was thrilling to see Ncuti play someone new and his take on the Doctor.
He's a fantastic actor and it was an honour to be a part of that new chapter for him."
And what's next for Kate?
Well, she's directed episodes for Season 2 of The Last of Us, and she's been confirmed as director and co-writer of the forthcoming The Sims movie.
Craig Luck Craig graduated from UCA in 2010 with a BA (Hons) in Film Production.
When he wrote the initial story while studying at UCA, intending for it to be a short film
“I wrote FINCH with no-one in mind, certainly not Tom Hanks...
There's a good reason why everyone loves Tom Hanks, and it's because he's genuine and extremely talented at what he does.
His decision to say ‘Yes’ to us changed my life more than he'll ever know.”
It was a strange, full-circle moment when the film launched on Apple TV+
Craig worked in an Apple Store after graduating, while also trying to get the short film version of FINCH (then known as BIOS) made.
Seeing this small project grow into what it is today is surreal.
I find it increasingly difficult to say ‘a dream come true’ because the reality is, it was beyond a dream at the time!
With FINCH now streaming, Craig is working on new projects, including a film called Interloper, which is still in development.
Hayley graduated with a BA (Hons) Film Production from UCA Farnham in 2016 followed by an MA in Filmmaking in 2017.
Alongside her studies she completed a range of work experience, working as a runner and videographer.
After working on a range of high profile projects including ‘Bohemian Rhapsody’ and ‘The Dark Crystal: Age of Resistance’, she was signed to a US directing / writing management team in LA
Studying for a masters at UCA was one of the smartest decisions I ever made as it taught me not just how to be a crew member, but how to become an all-round filmmaker.
My MA film ‘Denouement’ is one of the reasons I’ve just been signed to my new role in LA.
Study Film & TV at UCA
Alumni Spotlight with Directing Duo: That Jam
Film portfolio advice
What can you do with a degree in film?
A lot of different things!
Our graduates have gone on to work for organisations including  the BBC, ITV, Channel 4, RSA Films, Jim Henson's Creature Shop and Cartoon Network, and our courses will prepare you to work in a range of fields including:
Farnham: Audio & Broadcast Studios
Farnham: Creative Computing Labs
Farnham: Lumina Media Centre
Farnham: Motion Capture Studio
Farnham: Virtual Production Studio
"The course at UCA has taught me valuable knowledge and skills for my future career as a film director.
With the combination of practical filming - getting to shoot in Super 16mm, for example – and film history and theory, you get a well-rounded grounding in filmmaking."
Jose Viqueira BA (Hons) Film Production
We're proud to say that many of our alumni have gone on to make high-profile careers in the film industry.
Meet just a few of them here.
Gareth Edwards took the box office by storm in 2014 as the director of the Godzilla reboot and went on to direct Rogue One: A Star Wars Story.
His accolades include BAFTAs, British Independent Film Awards and Emmy nominations.
William McGregor graduated in 2010 and has gone on to work as a director on Poldark, His Dark Materials, Misfits, One of Us and The Missing, winning Emmy, BAFTA and Cannes Lions awards.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/subject/fine-art:
If you're looking for a Bachelor's or Master's course that offers the complete art school experience, our fine art degrees are for you.
Whether you're passionate about drawing, painting, sculpture or any medium besides, our courses will give you the chance to experiment with different disciplines and approaches and uncover what really makes you tick as an artist, and as an individual, too.
They'll also give you the practical skills and entrepreneurial knowledge to succeed in the arts sector.
Throughout our fine art degrees, we’ll help you to build your confidence and give you opportunities to network, work on community art projects, exhibit your work publicly and discover what your art practice means to you.
We enjoy close connections with both local arts communities and London venues, enabling you to aim high with what you seek to achieve.
And with our high-profile alumni including world-renowned artist and Turner Prize nominee, Tracy Emin, and Sky Portrait Artist of the Year 2017, Emma-Leone Palmer, you'll be graduating into great company.
From editing in the studio, meeting with artists and working in the gallery, Ellie Turner describes how no day is the same when studying Fine Art at UCA Farnham...
10.00am: we went to photocopy our passports ready for a class trip to Berlin we’re going on soon.
We’re always getting out and about, seeing shows in London and once a year we go abroad.
After a trip to equipment hire to pick up a camera for the day, I start making.
I’ve been working on a karaoke installation for an exhibition at Chelsea School of Art I’m taking part in.
2.00pm: A visiting artist comes to discuss what he’s creating for a curatorial space I help to manage.
We were chatting for a few hours, finalising plans for when he starts making the work.
5.20pm: I leave the studio for the day.
The structured day ends at 4.30pm but normally everyone stays until a bit later.
I have a part-time job in Farnham town so I stay working in the studio (more editing) then start work at 5.30pm.
7.30pm: The weekdays are normally very long, but it’s always really rewarding and I wouldn’t change it.
My days at uni are always different and it never gets boring!
UCA Fashion Promotion and Imaging graduate Cassidy Moses initially wanted to work in fashion and direct editorial photoshoots.
But the skills she gained on her course, coupled with a deep desire to bring art to a wider audience, have earned her an exciting role at the National Museum of African American History and Culture in Washington, DC.
My course drew me towards working for people and organisations that are passionate about bringing art to more people...
While I was studying at UCA, we were encouraged to go to exhibitions regularly, and that exposure had a huge impact on me.
Cassidy helps to organise future public programs and deliver current programs, including See Me, which brings people with Dementia and Alzheimer’s disease into the museum with their caregivers.
Study Fine Art at UCA
Alumni Story: LUAP (Paul Robinson)
Fine Art portfolio advice
Wondering what you could do with your degree?
There are a lot of options - arts and culture account for 347,000 jobs in the UK, so our degree courses are designed to give you a transferable skillset that will prepare you for a career in a range of fields, including:
"My art practice has really developed; I've learned so much about working on my practice and the contemporary art field.
I have knowledge about art history and practising artists that I wouldn't have got elsewhere.
I'm a lot more confident in myself as an artist."
Ronan Alice Porter BA (Hons) Fine Art

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/subject/games:
Our Rookies-accredited Bachelor's and Master's courses in games design, games art and games technology will prepare you for a career in the rapidly growing, multi-billion pound game development industry.
Sitting at the forefront of new technology and user design, learning these subjects in a creative arts environment allows you to discover exciting, imaginative worlds of your own creation.
By studying with us, you’ll be able to explore animation, computing and video games through a range of techniques, taught by expert academics, leading industry professionals, published authors, award-winning experts and working animators, coders and game designers.
Bringing invaluable links to industry into the classroom, our subject tutors have worked for household names such as Warner Bros, DC Vertigo and Supermassive Games.
Proud to be ranked 25th in the world in The Rookies’ 2024 Top 50 Creative Schools
Sally Shepperd graduated in 2019 with a degree in Games Arts and was one of 50 people added to the 2023 Future Class - representing the bright, bold, and inclusive future of video games.
I am so thankful to those who nominated me and for the recognition.
There are incredible individuals included in the Future Class list; some I have admired for a long time...
But there is so much still left to do to get women, minorities and members of the LGBTQIA+ communities equal footing in the industry.
Sally is the founder and creative director at Wyrden Games and art director at Arrogant Pixel.
She is also a Women in Games ambassador and Into Games video games ambassador.
Sally currently has three games in production with Arrogant Pixel and most recently, with Wyrden Games, developed and launched Spellbound: The Magic Within.
Spellbound is a narrative, character-driven, and interactive game full of magic, witchcraft and mystery, set in an idyllic British village that celebrates multiculturalism and diversity.
The main theme that kept popping up in comments from players was that they felt included and seen by the game – more than other games on the market.
That was a huge moment for me in the development of Spellbound as it helped me solidify in my head what Spellbound could be to its community and how important our actions as creators are.
With many exciting games in development, book publications on the horizon, and collaborations planned, Sally is putting the work in to help make the industry an even better place.
The industry is on its way; it’s making changes and improving - not as fast as I would like – but those ripples are becoming waves.
I would like to see the games industry continue to put in the work and keep improving.
Lewis, who graduated in 2017, specialised in character art for his final major project, and throughout his course did a number of LEGO-themed commissions and side projects.
Just a few months after his graduation, a job opened up at TT Games, as a Junior Character Artist, and has since been promoted to Character Concept Artist.
In 2022 Lewis coupled his work for TT Games with taking part in the BAFTA Crew Programme, giving him the the opportunity to take part in workshops, meet-ups and networking events.
The BAFTA Crew programme was recommended by a few friends in the industry and I thought it'd be a nice opportunity for me to grow my network and meet some new people...
I was so happy and grateful when I found out I’d been offered a place.
It’s a great form of recognition for my progress and position in the games industry.
Lydia first fell in love with gaming when she was little, after her big brother allowed her to play Pokemon on his Gameboy Colour.
It was small, handheld, gaming which became her passion from there on but when she was gifted an XBOX 360 at the age of 15, the full, immersive world of games was opened up to her.
I was no longer staring at a tiny screen and cutesy game worlds, I was now open to stories and environments with a lot more depth and it just blew my mind.
Since graduating, Lydia secured a role as a junior design at Supermassive Games, working on House of Ashes.
When I held the physical copy in my hand, I shed a little tear.
I felt like all the effort from university had been totally worth it.
I’m still fresh in the industry but if the rest of my career carries on like it has started, then I'm looking forward to the years ahead.
UCA taught me how to bounce back after mistakes, which is a very valuable commodity to have, and I will always be thankful for my time there...
Make a bunch of video games, make sure people can play them, make sure they are in your portfolio and apply for positions, even if you are not qualified for them!
Study Games at UCA
Games portfolio advice
The rapidly growing UK games industry is the fifth-largest in the world, with plentiful opportunities.
Our graduates have gone on to companies such as Guerilla Games, Splash Damage and Creative Assembly, worked on high profile titles like Until Dawn and Hidden Agenda, and developed their own indie games in our Games Incubator Studio.
Our courses will prepare you for careers in fields including:
Farnham: XR Creative Labs
"My experience at UCA has been fantastic.
Looking back at myself, both as a person and an artist, it's amazing how much I have grown.
I started the course as a 2D character artist with a bit of programming knowledge and now I'm building full 3D environments and making my own prototypes for future games."
Monika Milkova BA (Hons) Games Arts
We're proud of the exceptional teaching, connections, facilities and opportunities on offer to our Games students.
Here are three reasons to choose UCA if you're serious about a future in the Games industry.
Our games courses are accredited by The Rookies, a leading network for the industry.
Our computer games studios are packed with high-end PCs running software including Maya, Photoshop and Substance, and Unity and Unreal games engines.
For audio work, you'll make use of our dedicated sound production studios, a Foley studio and pro tools suites.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/subject/graphic-design:
If you want to study graphic design in the UK, our graphic design courses offer the perfect pathway to a dynamic and creative career.
Whether you're pursuing an undergraduate or master's graphic design degree, you'll gain the skills and experience needed to thrive in the industry.
Our graphic design degree courses blend technical expertise, design theory, and real-world application, helping you understand the impact of your work on society.
You'll have access to cutting-edge tools and facilities, all within small class sizes that ensure personalized support from expert tutors.
Taught by practising designers with strong industry connections, you'll work on live briefs for top brands like Nescafé and Benetton and enter high-profile design competitions.
Our graphic design courses also offer hands-on industry placements, helping you build a strong portfolio and professional network.
Kickstart your design career with one of the top design courses in the UK today!
Kelsey's planners and Self-Love Journal are selling online and in Oliver Bonas' 22 stores.
I began by designing a very small range and then set out to find suppliers in the UK that printed with eco-friendly materials; one of my main goals was to make my stationery as sustainable as possible...
The Oliver Bonas deal came about after I sent connections to a couple of their buyers on Linkedin
Kelsey recommends students ask plenty of questions, to open their eyes to different ideas that may lead them down exciting paths that they'd never imagined.
I absolutely loved my time at UCA.
I loved that it not only focused on the design aesthetics of creating a brand, but also the thinking behind it, which has definitely played a part in getting me to where I am now.
Now better known as The Blackboard Artist, Michael travels the country designing stunning blackboards and other signage for restaurants, bars, coffee shops and lots of other independent businesses.
Michael has worked with established companies such as Soho House, Virgin, Strada, Everyman Cinema, Big Easy and Simmons Bars.
During COVID lockdowns Michael turned to teaching, running online Zoom lessons for blackboard enthusiasts.
Try your very best to turn every negative into a positive.
Seven years ago when I started working on blackboards I was low in confidence and working in a pub kitchen as a kitchen porter, but I worked really hard to build my business on the side, as I knew painting was one of my passions.
When Emily graduated in 2016, the last place she expected to forge a career was in the space industryNowshe’s the in-house Creative Designer for a British company sending satellites into orbit.
I was only ever interested in space from an art perspective...
I had the misconception (as do many others) that to work in the space industry you have to have a very scientific.
I have definitely learned more about space and physics on the job than I ever did in school.
I enjoy my Creative Designer role because there is so much variety in the work that comes my way — I can be working on social media posts, digital designs and editing videos one week and the next, be photographing satellites in our cleanrooms, designing large scale exhibitions stands or even working on a mission patch for an upcoming launch!
'Studying and creating every day [at UCA] in a studio setting was really helpful and this soon felt like a natural environment to work in.'
Study Graphic Design at UCA
Graphic Design portfolio advice
Meet the Designer of UCA's Grad Show Branding
What could you do after your degree in graphic design?
Our graduates have won high-profile roles in leading companies and agencies such as Apple, Lego, Waitrose, Hasbro and Pentagram.
Studying Graphic Design with us will give you the skillset you need for a broad range of creative careers, including:
"I chose the course after seeing the quality of the design work previous students had produced.
The degree was multi-disciplinary, teaching me a wide range of skills – from the fundamentals of layout and typography to more complex design principles, practical techniques, and semiotics." David Nathan Davies, BA (Hons) Graphic Design
David Nathan Davies
We're proud of the design facilities you'll find at each of our campuses, giving you everything you need to create impressive, impactful work.
Our campuses feature specialist studios for stop-motion, printmaking and book production.
You'll work in digital suites which are equipped with Macs and the latest design and editing software.
Experiment with different mediums in our 3D printing, laser cutting, textiles, metal and woodworking workshops, and photography and video studios.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/subject/illustration:
If your dream is to tell stories and convey messages through illustration, our undergraduate and master's degree courses can help you master the skills you need.
Whether you're interested in reportage illustration, manga, fashion illustration, illustrating children's books or developing complementary animation skills, our courses will encourage you to explore a wide range of styles and mediums as you develop your own unique voice.
Because our programmes are relatively small and many of our staff are also practising illustrators, they're able to bring valuable industry contacts into the classroom.
You'll also benefit from extensive industry-grade facilities including stop-motion, printmaking and book production studios, Mac suites equipped with Adobe Illustrator and all the latest design and editing software, 3D printing, laser cutting, textiles, metal and woodworking workshops, photography and video studios.
Over the last couple of weeks, we had Illustrator and UCA alum, Margaux Carpentier, on campus, working on an incredible mural in our Farnham canteen.
After losing someone close to her Lucy set out to use her talents to help other young adults coping with loss.
She used her own experience as motivation for the four-month project.
I lost someone very close to me and it was a sudden death, which was an experience that I wish no one had to go through.
But I found there were no engaging or visual books to help me understand what I was going through, and young adults are experiencing more problematic responses to loss than we think.
The result of Lucy’s hard work is her beautiful book, which uses metaphorical objects to help the reader see grieving through symbols, which she uses to communicate emotions and feelings.
I like making images that can make a difference to people, whether that’s as part of educational books or just fun, creative illustrations that make people smile.
Xuan's book (The Elephant) details how the main character – a girl with Tourette’s, goes on a journey from finding she has the condition, to accepting herself.
When she has an attack, parts of her body turn into an elephant – making the phrase “the elephant in the room”, a metaphor for the disorder.
Xuan, who hopes to become a freelance illustrator, took three months creating her book and is important to her as she herself has the condition.
It affects me a lot, I sometimes have insomnia, and I sometimes have trouble concentrating and twitching...
I liken Tourette's to an elephant in the comics because that's how I feel...
everyone knows I'm different, even think I'm weird, but because they are adults, they don't say it directly.
'I hope that people without Tourette Syndrome read this cartoon more than people with it, because I want everyone to know more about this disease.'
Discover more about studying an Illustration degree at the University for the Creative Arts:
Course: MA Illustration
Senior Lecturer, Serena Katt, gives some some portfolio advice for UCA's Illustration courses.
Watch the highlights from the 2024 UCA Grad Show.
Wondering what jobs you can do with a degree in illustration?
There's a huge range, with the graphic design, illustration and animation sector employing around 1.7 million people in the UK.
Our courses will prepare you for careers in fields such as:
"The course has opened up new ways of thinking and taught me to apply this to my practical work.
We've been encouraged to experiment and always had the resources to try new things.
We have also been lucky to meet people working in the industry, from illustrators to agents."
Beth Peters BA (Hons) Illustration

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/subject/interior-design:
Our interior design courses are ranked 15th in the UK by The Guardian for 2025.
Whether you're interested in designing homes or hotels, furniture or film sets, or designing new spaces or products that enhance lives, our interior and spatial design degree courses will give you the skills and confidence you need to make a career in a range of exciting design roles.
You’ll learn from professionals who are working in your chosen industry, benefitting from our connections as you undertake exciting work placements, enter industry competitions and build valuable contacts, with added opportunities to go on study trips, visit fascinating exhibitions and even study abroad.
Throughout your studies, you'll have extensive technical resources at your fingertips.
Our impressive facilities include a dedicated virtual reality studio with spatial tracking, 3D printers, 3D workshops and high-calibre software for design and animation.
And you'll have the creative freedom to use all this to bring your individual ideas to life, developing your unique design voice without pressure to conform to a given 'house style'.
Design portfolio advice
Wondering what you could do after you graduate?
Our courses are wide-ranging and will prepare you for a range of different career paths, including:
"We're very lucky with the facilities; I've had the opportunity to work with clay, wood, laser cutter, 3D printing...
I really like the support network that is created by the university, and attending a specialist creative arts university means you're able to work with like-minded individuals."
Sophia Clunies-Ross BA (Hons) Interior Architecture & Design

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/subject/marketing:
Our marketing degree courses equip you with the skills and expertise to thrive in the dynamic world of digital marketing, advertising, PR, branding, and communications.
Whether you're interested in event management, promotion or social media marketing, our industry-focused approach prepares you for success in fashion, music, and other creative industries.
By studying one of our marketing university courses you'll gain in-depth knowledge from expert tutors with real-world experience, ensuring you stay ahead of emerging trends and technologies.
You can pick from our wide range of different types of marketing degrees tailored to your interests, from advertising degrees to strategic brand management.
As part of a vibrant creative community, you'll collaborate with students in fashion, business, photography, graphic design, and textiles, developing a broad industry perspective.
By the time you graduate, you'll be a business-savvy, innovative storyteller with the professional skills and connections needed to launch your career.
What can you do with a degree in marketing?
The answer is a lot!
With the UK’s marketing and advertising industries hosting around 200,000 jobs and growing faster than any other creative sector, our  courses will prepare you for a range of varied career paths, including:
"The environment at UCA was brilliant.
The tutors were all very encouraging and really helped to push each student to reach their potential.
I’m jealous of students who are just starting out on the course as I would love to go back and start again myself!"
Francesca Borg MA Design, Innovation & Brand Management

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/subject/music:
If you want to make a career in music composition, music technology, or in the business side of the industry, our undergraduate and Master's degree courses in music production and music management are for you.
Whichever you choose, we'll challenge you to come up with imaginative solutions to creative briefs, and encourage you to explore the theory behind your practice.
You'll also collaborate with students from our film, television, marketing and performance courses to build a diverse network and an impressive portfolio.
Throughout your studies, you'll be taught by expert staff with experience in broadcasting, composing, performance, artist development and music marketing, who have worked with artists from Emma Smith (Gorillaz) to the Edinburgh Quartet, and for music industry leaders such as BBC Radio, Sony and Universal Music Group.
You'll also make use of the extensive purpose-built facilities in our specially designed Business School at UCA Epsom and state of the art Film and Media Centre at UCA Farnham, where you'll find specialist facilities for audio and video capture, control rooms, a dubbing theatre, and dedicated rehearsal and performance spaces.
Study Music at UCA
The UK's fast-growing music industry employs roughly 142,000 jobs (and counting) spanning recording, distribution, marketing, post-production and more.
Our music courses are wide-ranging and can prepare you for a range of career paths including:
"I really enjoy the ability to be creative and make any of your ideas a reality.
Here at UCA you are given all the assistance, equipment, time and space you need."
Arusik Nanyan

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/subject/performing-arts:
If your dream is to get into theatre, film or TV as a performer, writer or designer, our Performing Arts degree courses will give you the skills, knowledge and contacts you need to succeed.
Whether you want to become an actor, write the next blockbuster or make a career in technical theatre as a costume, set or prop designer, our courses will give you the chance to learn from performing arts professionals with strong industry links.
You'll even take on projects and placements with organisations like the Royal Opera House, National Theatre and Pinewood Studios.
Along the way, you'll collaborate with students on other courses, from animation and film to music, fashion, gaming, and television production, building an impressive portfolio and a network of contacts that you'll take with you into your career.
Throughout your course, you'll work in our industry-grade workshops, rehearsal and performance spaces, and stage your work in professional venues beyond our campuses, including Farnham Maltings.
Study Performing Arts at UCA
Programme Director in Performing Arts
Senior Lecturer in Acting
Senior Lecturer in Design for Theatre & Screen
Technical Tutor in Music & Sound
Tutor Technician in Acting
Our Performing Arts courses will prepare you for a range of career paths and different types of work, including:
"The main reason I chose UCA was because the course allowed me to study both theatre and film techniques – I wanted to experience both practices."
Gabrielle Louise Ellison BA (Hons) Acting & Performance

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/subject/photography:
Do you want to become an editorial or commercial photographer?
Create art with your camera?
Or build a career in photojournalism or fashion photography?
On our Master's and undergraduate photography degrees, we'll help you develop the skills to become an expert photographer in your chosen field.
You'll create work with students from other creative courses – from film and games to acting, journalism and fashion – as you build an exciting and varied portfolio that reflects your unique interests and ambitions as a photographer.
Along the way, you'll be taught by internationally respected photographers including Karen Knorr, Anna Fox, Jean Wainwright, Ori Gersht, Steffi Klenz, Emmanuel Waeckerle and Sunil Gupta.
Based in our spacious studios, you'll take part in hands-on projects using contemporary and traditional digital and analogue technology, from professional lighting to multi-platform digital suites including Flextight scanners and high-end printers.
Whilst originally studying Fashion Promotion and Imaging, Phoebe and a coursemate made a list of all the small bands they liked and contacted them for a photo passes, making use their access to the equipment at UCA to build a portfolio.
She then swapped courses to study Music Marketing and Promotion and has since gone on to travel the world and tour with acts such as The Amazons and Anne Marie.
Music Marketing and Promotion ticked all my boxes; it featured photography, but also focused on the music business surrounding it.
While studying, I had time to build my own business and put what I was learning at university into practice, combining creating content and promotion for friends in bands, with class projects and networking.
Phoebe told UCA about how seeing fanbases grow for artists she's worked with is something really special to her.
“You see the whole journey, ups and downs, the challenges and growth people go through.
It’s so personal.
When someone like that sells out a big show or does something they’ve always wanted to, you feel like part of it.”
I spent three years balancing touring, festivals, shows and portraits with university commitments and deadlines.
There’s no way I would have been able to do that without the support and flexibility given to me by the UCA lecturers.
By the end of those three years, I handed in the final major project, went home to pack and got straight on a tour bus for a six-week run with Anne Marie.
UCA asked Phoebe what the best piece of career advice she'd ever been given:
“Learn the rules before you break them!”
UCA’s Fast Forward: Women in Photography project is launching Part 2 of Putting Ourselves in the Picture - designed to boost opportunities for women and non-binary emerging photographers.
The project aims to tackle the lack of opportunities for these photographers by helping them forge industry links through partnerships with high-profile organisations, including Women for Refugee Women, Autograph, Impressions Gallery, National Galleries of Scotland, and Work Show Grow.
The project helps me have the confidence to tell stories or to give a word of courage to other people out there to tell them they can.
No matter what, they can.
- Rella
Collage made by participants Ceecee, Miya, Phim, Raolat, Leonelle, Precious, Rella and Rhody (Autograph and Women for Refugee Women / Fast Forward, 2021).
© CeeCee (Autograph & Women for Refugee Women/Fast Forward).
I see hope, I feel like I’m going somewhere, to be somebody, who can help in this country.
I want to do stories for the people who are suffering, to show people that, even if you suffer today, there is another life after this one.
- Vicky
©Maureen (National Galleries of Scotland/Fast Forward).
©Miya (Autograph & Women for Refugee Women/Fast Forward).
Discover more:
A photo exploring MFA student Olivia Cooper’s identity as a mixed-race individual, and featuring her mother, has won her an outstanding contribution prize and been broadcast on a billboard overlooking Old Street in London.
I Am My Mother was chosen from more than 1000 submissions, and comes from Olivia’s current MFA project exploring her multi-cultural heritage as a Western British-raised woman of Asian heritage.
It was powerful to see my mother involved in my search for identity and belonging.
The making of this image enabled a reclamation of personal space and place.
I hope it will resonate with audiences, and they’ll be able to take away a sense of raw and personal representation, along with an understanding of all the complexities involved in mixed-race identity.
I chose to study Fashion Photography because I have been attracted to Photography since I was a kid...
another reason I chose this course is my ambition of a career in fashion communication.
'One of the most important lessons I have learned as a UCA student is that commitment always brings good results.
Don't ever get down on yourself.'
The main idea of our Environmental Project was to document the African culture and their lifestyle by making images that portray a positive perspective...
Thanks to this I’ve been able to learn so much about black culture.
It was a perfect opportunity to make new friends and find something in common, being an immigrant in the UK.
As soon as I have a degree I would like to gain experience working as a Fashion Photographer to advertise a brand or a company.
At the same time, I would like to find freelance job opportunities worldwide
Jodie, who has just completed her two-year MFA Photography degree, has seen her striking portraits of herself and her sister, Hannah, in their hijabs, showcased in the Photo Vogue Festival 2021 Reframing History and also in the latest issue of Photoworks.
The project, My Hijab Has A Voice: Revisited, seeks to explore the experience of Muslim women within the religion, and within society as a whole.
Through her work, Jodie wants to break the stereotypes that the media has perpetuated of the Muslim woman, instead giving her an authentic voice and a modern outlook.
I had just converted to Islam, and started to wear my hijab.
That is when I decided to do a project around my journey.
I always knew there was a negative stigma around the hijab in the media anyway, but I started to come across material that had absolute hate for Islam, saying terrible things about Muslim women and the hijab.
I became very angry and hurt, as I was falling in love with my religion...
mostly hoped it would start new conversations and just give people the opportunity to have an insight into a convert’s personal journey to putting on the hijab, rather than just seeing it as a symbol of oppression in the West.
Jodie's work was one of 35 photographers picked from more than 2,500 around the world to be featured in Reframing History.
It is such an incredible feeling.
I was lost for words when I got the recognition.
It’s such a hard field to get into, with such great artists out there, so it’s really reassuring when you start to get the attention from these high-profile places, especially after receiving so many rejections.
The death of George Floyd sparked a global movement – and for Fashion Photography graduate Sonny Barthley, it inspired a very personal final project.
"I felt driven to discuss the issue of race through my photography in a way that was unique and thought-provoking."
My aim was to allow the audience to discuss an uncomfortable but important subject and to inform and educate people on the massive suffering my ancestors went through.
The message I wanted to convey is that although Afro-Caribbean people are not physically enslaved anymore, mentally people still feel shackled and chained.
A still from Sonny's final project
I love how both photography and film allow you to express yourself with no restrictions or boundaries.
Discover more about studying a Photography degree at the University for the Creative Arts:
Course: MFA Photography
A behind-the-scenes peek at the work of Avi Rehill, a talented photography alumni and current technician assistant, as he captures vintage cars and their owners for his ongoing photo project.
Senior Lecturer, Matt Lindsey , gives some some portfolio advice for UCA's Photography courses.
Our Photography degrees will set you up to enter a wide range of different career fields including:
Epsom: Fashion Photography IT Suites
Canterbury: Photography & Sound Studios
Canterbury: Print and Fabrication Studio
"Having the opportunity to be so ambitious and free with photography has to be the best and most enjoyable aspect of the course.
It provides you with the opportunity to truly create a body of work that you are genuinely interested in and motivated to develop."
Alice Andrew BA (Hons) Photography

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/subject/product-design:
Whether you want to design furniture, jewellery or interiors – or invent the next generation of sustainable products – our range of undergraduate and Master's degrees in product design and industrial  can get you where you need to be.
Our undergraduate courses offer opportunities to work on industry briefs, competitions and placements, which will help expand your professional network.
Some courses also offer an optional Professional Practice or International Year to help you build your experience.
Throughout your course, you'll be taught by expert designer-makers and technicians, and collaborate with students from other design disciplines.
You'll create work using exceptional specialist workshop facilities and equipment, including a fully equipped foundry, 3D digital design software, laser cutting, CNC technology and virtual reality and spatial tracking technology.
Our product, interiors, industrial and jewellery design degrees are a springboard to a diverse range of career paths.
After finishing your degree, you'll be equipped to build a career in fields including:
"I had a great year completing my MA, the facilities were fantastic and I was able to gain a lot of knowledge thanks to the expert staff.
I also found the workshops to be very useful – it was amazing to see my products come to life."
Christina Fountoulaki MA Product Design
At UCA, our facilities for designer-makers are second to none.
Here are just some of the workshops and equipment you can expect to use as you bring your ideas to life.
Our, workshops feature digital creation facilities including 3D printing, laser and plasma cutters.
You'll also find circular and band saws, a planer/thicknesser, belt sanders, drilling machines and vacuum forming and spot-welding equipment.
Our digital media suites are equipped with the latest graphic design and computer-aided design programmes to support your design work.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/levels-of-study/undergraduate:
Whether you’re a hands-on maker, a storyteller, a technological wizard, an imaginer of new worlds and spaces or living life through a lens, our undergraduate degrees will give you the freedom, the knowledge, the skills and the confidence to excel within your chosen craft.
As well as the practical learning experience you’ll enjoy across our campuses, you’ll benefit from excellent industry links and real-world opportunities, first-class facilities and a creative community like no other.
Computer Arts
Interior Design

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/levels-of-study/postgraduate:
At UCA you don't have to hide your true self.
You'll be welcomed into a community of creatives and we’ll never stop you from being you.
Postgraduate study at UCA is all about inspiring and challenging you to fulfil your potential.
Here, you'll be able to really push boundaries within your discipline.
At UCA you'll have the space to explore your style and create whatever your mind can think of.
Explore our Masters degrees with, MA, MFA and MSc courses that lend themselves to careers in Creative Arts, Business and Technology.
Find out more about studying a postgraduate degree at UCA:
Hear what students from across a varitety of subjects have to say about studying a Master's degree at the University for Creative Arts.
Course: MA Fine Art
Course: MA Product Design
Please complete the form below to receive updates about studying a postgraduate course at UCA:

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/research/research-degrees:
Studying a creative research degree at UCA means joining a vibrant and progressive top ten research community with a wealth of specialist resources for creative research and practice.
Want to study a creative research degree?
At the University for the Creative Arts, you have the ideal setting, support, and environment to achieve your research and practice ambitions.
Joining us for your creative PhD will give you an unparalleled opportunity to delve into an area of research that is relevant to your passions and your aspirations.
You’ll be part of our imaginative, supportive research community, with a base at the UCA Doctoral College, located close to our Canterbury campus at Rochester House.
Here, you can design the framework of your studies, make academic connections, and develop unique and impressive doctoral work.
As a full or part-time research student at UCA, you’ll have the option to choose a traditional or practice-based route for your studies.
Whichever you choose, you’ll develop an original written thesis, and practice-based candidates will need to produce accompanying creative work.
Our students are undertaking PhD's in a variety of creative subjects, from exploring cultural hybridity in Nigerian film , to interpreting the behaviour of ants through fine art .
If you're interested in joining them, and studying a postgraduate research degree at UCA, read on.
Begin your application
A PhD is an advanced postgraduate qualification where you plan and complete your own focused investigation into a subject you have chosen and produce a piece of original research that contributes new knowledge to the research community.
A PhD is the highest-level academic qualification, and undertaking a PhD equips you be an independent researcher, ready to take your place in your field in academia or in the many jobs where research skills are important.
At the UCA Doctoral College, students undertake PhDs in a variety of creative subjects, from advancing the potential of the photobook , to exploring the relationship between dance and drawing .
Before making the decision to do a PhD, it is important to understand the nature of this programme and how this differs from Masters’-level study.
Find out more on findaphd.com
Over half of our research students are undertaking a practice-based PhD, which might include for example making films, sculptures, robots, garments, or games alongside writing a 35-45,000 word thesis.
Other students write a full 65-85,000 word thesis.
UK students can choose to study either full-time or part-time, however part-time study is not available to international students.
The pathway to PhD begins with enrolment in our Masters by Research degree, which includes an intensive taught course in October that is on site, the successful completion of which results in progression onto our doctoral programme (a further two years plus optional writing up year).
Throughout your studies, you will be supported by the Doctoral College in Canterbury.
Your supervisors (who may be based on one of our three campuses) will act in a mentoring role, providing feedback and encouragement and helping you to develop the research required for a PhD qualification.
You will have at least two supervisors and monthly supervisory meetings will take place online or in person.
Many students collaborate with their supervisors and the wider UCA research community, both during and after their studies.
View our research staff profiles
UCA is a creative university with a range of specialisms.
Your study could focus on any of the disciplines, including:
If you have a proposal and are not sure whether we have expertise in this, please get in touch with our office: researchdegrees@uca.ac.uk
We offer a social and educational environment that is tailored to support your study.
The first part of your degree is face-to-face at our Doctoral College in the heart of Canterbury.
It is designed to help you develop your research plan, equip you with the skills you will need to succeed, and to get to know your colleagues.
Following this you may want move campuses to be closer to your supervisors and relevant facilities as you build your creative practices.
At each campus there is dedicated space to work and at the Doctoral College there are two floors of desks.
Throughout your studies you'll have access to our year-round programme that includes:
Most importantly, you will be supported by the wider UCA research community with faculty members across all of our Schools actively engaging our students in projects, events and assistant teaching.
How to Apply
Fees & Funding

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/levels-of-study/integrated-foundation:
If you want to study a creative subject at degree level but you want to develop your skills first, then choosing an Integrated Foundation pathway is an ideal start.
The Integrated Foundation Year is an opportunity to gain vital insight into university  education, giving you the confidence and practical skills needed to successfully pursue a creative subject at undergraduate degree level.
Depending on your chosen degree pathway, you’ll learn art and design practices or creative industries management.
Across the year, you will be introduced to creative teaching and learning methods, including project briefings, lectures, workshops, group critiques, essay writing, and tutorials.
You will also have access to studio spaces, where you will be able to develop your unique style and individualised approach.
You’ll enhance this learning experience with trips to external sites like museums and studios.
During Term 1, you will work closely alongside other students, learning different techniques and skills and developing a broader understanding of creative practices, preparing you for your future studies.
In Term 2, you will focus on subject-specific teaching, tutorials and workshops tailored to your chosen pathway.
It will culminate in a final major project, where you will define and showcase your skills and knowledge, ensuring you are fully prepared for undergraduate study.
Term 1
Exploring Creativity For the start of your studies, you will explore and think about different forms of creative thinking and practice, developing key skills along the way such as observation, investigation, experimentation, interpretation, documentation and communication of your work.
You will engage with specific creative techniques and strategies designed to initiate creativity.
Research and Inspiration By exploring the work and ideas of other creative practitioners and thinkers in your subject area, this unit gives you inspiration but also helps to build your skills and toolkit for creative visual and written research and critical thinking.
You will learn how to give a research presentation and written evaluation of your work.
Creative Practical Skills 1 The aim of this unit is to introduce you to a range of technical and making practices.
This helps you consider different forms of creative thinking, including investigation, experimentation, interpretation, and communication.
The focus is on practical skills, to build creative confidence in creating the project outcomes.
Term 2
Creative Practice As you start the second half of your course, you’ll build and develop your knowledge, understanding and skills of the ideas and practices introduced to you.
You will get the opportunity to propose and undertake specialist practice work reflecting your individual interests.
It culminates in demonstrating your most refined and independent work on the course and all the prior and ongoing learning undertaken to achieve it.
Research and Writing You will focus on your specialist area of study while still exploring broader cultural and creative work of others.
This will inform your research interests and understanding of the areas in which you wish to develop your research.
Creative Practical Skills 2 You will explore and enhance your practical skills, with increased focus on your subject area, in preparation for commencing your undergraduate study.
You will be encouraged to build on techniques already learned, and refine these processes.
The standard entry requirements* for these courses are one of the following:
And four GCSE passes at grade 9-4/A*-C including English (or Functional Skills English/Key Skills Communication Level 2).
Other relevant and equivalent Level 3 UK and international qualifications are considered on an individual basis, and we encourage students from diverse educational backgrounds to apply.
Portfolio requirements Depending on the course you apply for you may need to prepare a portfolio or for an audition.
Please see the entry requirement details on the course pages .
Further information will be provided once you have applied.
Mature students If you are a mature student and would like to know more about applying and studying at UCA please see our guide for mature students for more information.
To apply for the Integrated Foundation option you need to select your undergraduate degree course and apply either via UCAS or directly.
View our undergraduate courses

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/levels-of-study/integrated-pre-masters:
If you're seeking to enhance your academic and creative skills before pursuing an Masters degree course, the Integrated Pre-Masters pathway provides the ideal preparation.
Open to both UK and international students, the Integrated Pre-Masters offering an enriching foundation for those transitioning to postgraduate education.
The course, which begins in either September, January or May (one semester), focuses on developing critical thinking, advanced creative problem-solving, and research skills, alongside refining study skills for academic purposes – all to ensure you’re fully ready for postgraduate life.
Throughout the course, you will have the opportunity to define your creative subject specialism while building an advanced portfolio of work.
You’ll benefit from access to dedicated studio spaces and workshop-based resources tailored to support your creative growth.
Educational visits within the UK are integral to the experience.
In previous years, students have explored museums and galleries in cities like London, Brighton, and Oxford.
These trips will help enrich your research and inspire your creative projects.
Additionally, you’ll benefit from personal development tutoring, which will support your academic growth and help you refine your specialist pathway.
And, if you need to enhance your English language skills, you can opt to join a pre-sessional English course to improve your IELTS score as well.
For students who meet the language requirement of IELTS 6.0 overall (with no band below 5.5) with a strong portfolio/personal statement, we also offer a one-semester version of this course, lasting 13 weeks.
This is an accelerated pathway to postgraduate study, allowing you to focus intensively on your chosen subject area.
Please note: Students choosing the accelerated pathway should have a more advanced portfolio/personal statement to meet the requirements of the shortened course.
Whether you’re from the UK or abroad, the Pre-Masters pathway will give you the confidence, skills, and creative insight needed to transition smoothly into a postgraduate degree course with the knowledge and experience to excel.
Your portfolio of work should demonstrate your prior learning, creativity, and relevance for your subject area.
You can either email your portfolio (ideally in PDF format) or upload your work to a file-sharing website (e.g., You Tube, Flickr, Drop Box).
Further information on how to compile a portfolio and the process for submission of your work will be provided on the Applicant Portal.
You need an overall IELTS score of 5.5 with 5.5 in each component or an equivalent UK Visas and Immigration recognised qualification.
We offer various length of English Pre-sessional courses to support you with gaining the required English improvement.
To apply for the Integrated Pre-Masters course you need to select your postgraduate degree course and apply directly to UCA using the application link on your selected course page.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/pre-sessional-english:
Our Pre-sessional English (PSE) courses help you to raise your English language level to meet the entry requirements of your main course.
They also prepare you to study in the field of art and design or business at UCA.
We offer a range of course lengths and start dates so you can select the right course for you.
To find out more about our Pre-sessional English courses please go to Pre-sessional English at UCA .
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our English Courses Pre-sessional degree:
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Pre-sessional students may be interested in.
This includes subject talks, masterclasses, application proccess advice and student life guides.
Check out our upcoming webinars and book your place today.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/prospectus:
UCA is the only institution in the UK and one of very few in the world that hinges its identity on creativity, rather than a physical location.
Whether it’s Art & Design, Business, or Technology, our creativity makes us unique.
Discover how your creativity can be unleashed through our suite of forward-thinking and exciting courses, and the opportunities life at UCA can bring.
Request a posted copy View online
If you’d like us to send you a copy please complete the form below (please note, we only offer shipping to the UK).

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/campuses/campus-tours:
You need your university to be the right fit – from your course, the facilities, to the atmosphere.
What better way to get a feel for UCA than by taking one of our campus tours?
Led by a UCA student ambassador, a current student who has unique insight into life at UCA, our tours take place twice a month at each of our campuses in Canterbury, Epsom and Farnham.
Although you will be unable to view our accommodation during our campus tours, we are more than happy to answer any questions you may have.
You can also view our online accommodation tours via our accommodation page.
If you cannot attend any of our below campus tour dates, please do get in touch with us directly at enquiries@uca.ac.uk and we can arrange a separate visit.
There are no upcoming campus tours of Maidstone TV Studios, but you'll be able to explore the Studios and discover more about the course at one of our upcoming Open Days .

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/events/future-students:
Join us for an engaging online webinar that provides you with the latest insights, expert knowledge, and a unique opportunity to interact directly with our panel of experts!
Sorry, there's no future events currently listed.
Please check back soon or check out our previous events.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/webinars:
There's no upcoming course & subject webinars.
There's no upcoming student experience webinars.
There's no upcoming masterclass webinars.
Join us at an upcoming Open Day or book on to a campus tour to explore our campuses for yourself.
Open Days Campus Tours

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/applying-to-uca:
If you've found the pre-degree, undergraduate or postgraduate degree course of your dreams here at UCA, then this page is where you'll find all the information you'll need on how to apply.
The application process doesn't have to be a stressful experience - even in these unusual times.
We're here to help, to offer some flexibility so that we can accommodate you and to answer any questions you might have.
That last point is really important to us - we want you to come to us with your questions so you have all the information you feel you need to come to a decision.
There are lots of ways to get in touch – you can email our enquiries team, drop us a line through our social media channels, or chat to current students via UniBuddy.
Also, if you have a disability or additional learning need – please tell us when you apply.
It’s really important that we know what support you may need from the outset, whether it’s assistance with your application, help with funding or helping you settle in when you start with us.
Please select the links below for the level of study you’re considering which contain the information you’ll need about the application process.
Need hints and tips on how to write a brilliant personal statement as part of your application?
Your portfolio tells us so much about you - here's how to showcase your work in a way that speaks to us!
Our Enquiries Team are here to help if you'd like to talk to us to find out more about UCA.
Submit an enquiry

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/portfolio-advice:
UCA is a place for creativity, ingenuity and personality, not just good grades.
Your exam results are only part of your picture - and we want to see the whole of you and your potential.
We do this by asking you to show us via a portfolio or audition – a showcase of your thoughts, processes and passions.
If you’ve never put together a portfolio or audition before, then you’ve come to the right place!
Portfolio advice for applicants
What to include in your portfolio
Well, not all our courses need one, but we do look for one in most of them.
Mainly because we want to get to know you as a creator and as a personality.
Exam grades tell us that you know a subject to a certain level – but they don’t tell us the way you think, how you approach a task, or your creative style.
You’ll show us your portfolio at your Applicant Day.
These are informal days on campus where you’ll get a closer look at the facilities you might choose to study in, get a true impression of UCA life as it takes place on a regular teaching day, and the chance to meet properly with the people who’ll be teaching you.
If you're not in the UK currently, or you are UK-based but would prefer to upload your portfolio digitally, there's also the option to do that via the UCA Applicant Portal.
We'll give you more information about that once you've applied.
Your portfolio is a collection of your work in a neat and tidy package!
In most cases, we’ll be looking for 12 to 20 pieces of work.
You don’t need to make anything especially for your portfolio (unless you feel the need!).
If you are applying to performing arts course, you’ll need to showcase your work via an audition tape.
If you get an offer email, we’ll send you details of the specific requirements for your course.
But it might be an idea to start gathering your work now and selecting your favourites.
It all depends on what it is you want to study but it could include sketches, photographs, digital art, concepts and even creative writing – and for performing arts and music courses, short sound samples and audition tapes.
We love a work in progress – the true artist is as fascinated by the journey as the destination!
We’re not looking for super-polished near-professional work – we want to see your early ideas, your half-finished work, your failed experiments, thoughts and ideas.
These are your starting point – your time at UCA will be what helps you develop your work a professional standard.
For lots of people, sharing their work with a wider audience is quite daunting.
If this is the first time you’ve showed your work to anyone that’s our privilege and we are so honoured to see it.
So turn those nerves into excitement – try to view this as a special chance to chat to someone who is curious to know what sparks your imagination.
We have plenty – but if you don’t see any of your questions answered here, then you can find out more by filling out our enquiries form .
Or, if you’re coming to an Open Day any time soon, we’re on hand to chat with you in person.
The first thing is to share your story.
It’s a simple thing but put your work in a sequence that makes sense to you - this will really help you to explain your journey to us.
Keeping things as neat as possible will also make things easier for you as you guide us through it.
Second – your passion is our passion!
There's nothing we love more than seeing someone excited and enthusiastic about the work they do.
If you’re passionate about something, show us.
We also recommend really spending some time on presentation – getting things in order ahead of time and presenting it in a neat and tidy way will help you when it comes to talking about it, and help your future tutors see your work in its best light.
Finally - check your course information.
This one is really important as each course will want to see different things.
You’ll get this information by email, so make sure you give it a good read to guarantee your including the right work!
This advice applies to any postgraduate degree that requires a portfolio (unless listed separately)
If you have any more questions about your portfolio please get in touch with our Admissions team:
If you have additional needs you haven’t yet told us about – whether it’s learning support or physical assistance – we can work with you and support you through the application process.
Please contact relevant campus to discuss this with us:
Getting in touch early gives us plenty of time to discuss any reasonable adjustments you might need.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/applying-to-uca/personal-statement:
As part of your application to UCA - or any university - you'll need to write a personal statement.
This is a really crucial part of the process as it tells us so much about you and gives you a chance to show us why you'd be a great fit for your chosen course.
UCAS have changed how personal statements work for 2026 entry.
Instead of one long statement, it's now split into three questions:
UCAS designed this new structure to make it clearer and easier for applicants to complete.
These three questions are a great starting point to give examples and share achievements that reflect your passion for the subject.
You have up to 4,000 characters (about 700 words) to tell us about yourself and help you stand out.
It's important to make sure every word counts.
Each answer must be at least 350 characters (about 60 words), but try to balance your word count across all three questions.
We're not expecting perfection — we're looking read about your passion and potential.
UCAS have worked with tutors and admissions staff at universities to create some example personal statements, tailored to different subjects, to help you get started:
Select your course and begin your application today:

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/international:
Join our global student community to learn creative skills from industry experts in one of the world's leading creative economies.
If you're looking for a degree course to help you build a career in the creative industries, the UK is an exciting place to study, with the nearby city of London is known throughout the world as a driving force in the global creative economy.
By studying at UCA you would be eligible to apply for a Graduate visa , which would allow you to stay in the UK for two years to work after you complete your degree.
Find out more about life as an International student at UCA:
Course: BA Fashion Atelier and Tailoring
Course: BA Film Production
Four of Chinese students from different courses share their experiences of studying in the UK here at UCA.
Course: BA/BSc Music Business & Management
Course: BA/BSc Business & Management
Course: BA Acting & Performance
Course: BSc Industrial Design
Country guides
How to apply
Equivalent qualifications
Language requirements
Visas and immigration
Scholarships
K-Pop transcends language, age, geography, and gender.
It’s a worldwide community, where many people find inspiration and friendship.
The Farnham branch has around 40 members, and won 'Club of the Year' at the UCA Students' Union awards in 2022 and 2023!
I love music in general, and I love the genre.
I thought I’d just check it out and I’ve been here ever since!
This is the place where I’ve found all my friends.
We just clicked – and we always have fun.
You can can up-to-date with what the UCA K-Pop Dance Club over on their instagram: @ucakpopdanceclub
Canterbury facilities tour
Epsom facilities tour
Farnham facilities tour
If you have any questions about the admissions process or your application, please contact the International Admissions team.
Please note: the South East Asia email address is for students from India, Bangladesh, Nepal, Pakistan or Sri Lanka.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/international/countries:
At the University for the Creative Arts, we welcome talented creators from around the world.
Being an International Student at UCA

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/international/english-language-support:
If the level of your English is not quite where it needs to be for entry onto your chosen degree programme, take a look at our Pre-sessional English courses .
Studying a degree programme in a language that is not your own can be challenging.
Academic conventions in different languages vary, and the vocabulary and structures required for communicating at an academic level can be more difficult to master than everyday English.
During your time studying at UCA, you will be required to:
The English for Academic Purposes (EAP) team are available to give you the language support that you will need to succeed in all these areas.
Access to this support is totally free!
Read on to find out more about how we can help you develop your academic English.
Course-specific sessions focus on helping you understand the language and concepts that are connected to your course.
This often includes looking in detail at areas such as:
These sessions are arranged by your main course tutor and the EAP tutor linked to your school or campus.
They will be scheduled for a time that fits around your timetable and will usually be held weekly.
If you are informed that sessions have been arranged for your year group, you should make sure you attend them each week.
Sometimes, it may be decided that EAP support is best given while main course lessons are happening.
This is known as embedded support, and it means that the EAP tutor is available to guide you during a main course lesson and help you understand more complicated concepts, information or instructions.
Course-specific sessions may be delivered in-person or online.
Your main course tutor, or the EAP tutor will let you know.
A tutorial with an EAP tutor will give you the opportunity to receive targeted one-to-one feedback, support, or input on an area of academic skills or language, or an assignment you are working on.
International students find tutorials particularly useful for:
EAP tutorials usually last for 45 minutes and can be booked through the UCA Library.
To book, follow these steps:
You will receive an email confirming your booking.
This will include an option to add the tutorial to your calendar, which we recommend that you do.
Most tutorials are held online, but if you would prefer to see the EAP tutor in person, send them an email to let them know.
Please note that EAP Tutors do not provide proofreading services.
In Term 2, the EAP team runs 90-minute workshops focusing on different key academic skills each week.
These interactive sessions are available to international students on all courses, both undergraduate and post-graduate, and are designed to develop students’ confidence in areas such as:
Workshops also provide an opportunity for students to connect with others who are studying on different courses and different campuses, and to develop their general academic skills in a supportive environment.
You can check the schedule for upcoming workshops and make bookings to attend them here .
All international students are automatically enrolled into the In-sessional English Language Support module in myUCA when they start their degree course.
The EAP team send regular email announcements from here about workshops and other events, so keep an eye out for them.
If you have a particular question or request, you can always contact the team by emailing English.support@uca.ac.uk , or you can contact the EAP tutor connected to your course directly.
Check the EAP Tutors page on the UCA Library website to see who your EAP tutor is.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/international/equivalent-qualifications:
If you do not have UK qualifications, we will consider equivalent qualifications from your home country for entry onto our Foundation, Bachelor’s and Master’s courses.
Each application we receive is considered individually and therefore these qualifications are provided as a guide.
Please also check the entry requirements on the specific course you are interested in to check for course-specific requirements .
If you are not sure if you have the necessary qualifications for your course, or your country isn't listed, please contact internationaladmissions@uca.ac.uk .
Requirements for UK applicants and UK qualifications can be found directly on course webpages .
If you are an international student in the UK your qualifications will not be the same as those we usually require from UK students.
Please select your home country or the country you have studied in to find equivalent requirements.
For our Bachelor’s courses, we usually require that you have a Grade 14 Diploma with 60% overall.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Grade 12 Graduation Certificate with 60% overall.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses we can also consider five IGCSE's with grades 9-4/A*-C.
Our Pre-Masters courses require a recognised bachelor degree or 3 year diploma with a strong portfolio in a relevant subject.
Applicants will also need to meet any course-specific requirements.
For our Master’s courses, we usually require that you have successfully completed a Master’s degree at a recognised university.
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require that you have a transcript showing successful completion of year 1 of a Bachelor's degree, with an average grade of 7/10 or better, from a recognised Albanian university.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have an Albanian Diplomë e Maturës Shtetërore (Diploma of State Matura) with 6/10 or better.
For our Master’s courses, we usually require that you have successfully completed a Bachelor's degree at a recognised university.
View more information for students from Algeria 🇩🇿
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require that you have a Brevet de Technicien Superier with a score of 12/20.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Baccalauréat de l'Enseignement Secondaire with a score of 12/20.
For our Master's courses, we usually require that you have successfully completed a Licence or Diplôme (4 years in duration) from a recognised university.
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require that you have one of the following:
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have an Argentinian Título de Bachiller with an average grade 6 or better.
For our Master's courses, we usually require that you have successfully completed your Bachelor's degree (Título/Grado de Licenciado) awarded after 4 or more years of study from a recognised university.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have an Armenian Certificate of Secondary General Education with grade 7.5 or better.
View more information for students from Australia 🇦🇺
We also require Australia Year 10 Certificate with English C or above.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a satisfactory pass in your Australian Certificate of Education or equivalent school qualification.
If you are an Australian national, we will be able to accept your degree level qualification to meet our English Language requirement.
View more information for students from Austria 🇦🇹
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require that you have a Reife und Diplomprufung/Matura OR Reifeprufung/Matura with minimum grade 2.2.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Reife und Diplomprufung/Matura OR Reifeprufung/Matura with minimum grade 4.
We accept Matura/Reifeprufung.
You must attain a 2 (gut) in English Language in both written and oral exams.
For our Bachelor's courses, we can accept a Study Net Group International Foundation Year with 60% overall grade.
Please contact internationaladmissions@uca.ac.uk for more information on foundation year entry requirements.
Please contact internationaladmissions@uca.ac.uk for more information on postgraduate entry requirements.
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require that you have a Bahamas Associate of Applied Science or Associate of Arts / Science.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have Bahamas GCSEs in at least five subjects with grade C or better.
For our Master's courses, we usually require that you have a Bachelor's degree awarded by the University of the West Indies.
View more information for students from Bahrain 🇧🇭
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Bahraini Tawjahiya / Shahadat Al-Thanawaya Al-Aama (General Secondary Education Certificate) with an average grade of 70%.
View more information for students from Bangladesh 🇧🇩
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require that you have either:
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Bangladeshi Higher Secondary Certificate, showing 12 years of completed school study, with 3.0 out of 5.0 or better.
For our Master's courses, we usually require that you have:
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Caribbean Examinations Council Secondary Education Certificate (CSEC) with grade 3 in 5 subjects.
Successful completion of your Bachelor's degree from Barbados Community College or The University of the West Indies.
For Bachelor's courses we can accept the Caribbean Examinations Council Secondary Education Certificate, English grade 3 (General Proficiency).
If you are a national of Barbados, we will be able to accept your degree level qualification to meet our English Language requirement for Master's and PhD courses.
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require that you have one of the following:
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a C ertificate of General Secondary Education with a score of 7/10 overall
For our Master's courses, we usually require that you have successfully completed your Bachelor's degree or Specialist Diploma from a recognised university.
View more information for students from Belgium 🇧🇪
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require that you have a 70% in one of the following:
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require 60% in one of the following:
We can accept a mark of 8/80% / grote onderscheiding / grande distinction in English as part of the Getuigschrift Van Hoger Secundair Onderwijs or Certificat d'Enseignement Secondaire Superieur qualification.
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require that you have a Diplome d'Etudes Techniques Superieures grade 12.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Baccalauréat or equivalent with 12/20.
For our Master’s courses, we usually require that you have successfully completed a Diplome d'Eudes Approfondies/Diplome d'Etudes Superieures/Master from a recognised university.
For our Bachelor's level courses, we usually require that you have a Bermudan Associate degree.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Bermuda School Diploma 70%.
View more information for students from Bhutan 🇧🇹
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require that you have a Bhutan Higher Secondary Education Certificate 60%.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Bhutan Higher Secondary Education Certificate (BHSEC) with a minimum of 50%.
For our Master's courses, we usually require that you have a three or four-year undergraduate degree overall 55% (Honours Bachelor degree or Professional degree) at an accredited university or college.
We can accept 65% or higher in the HSEC (12th standard) English subject.
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require that you have on of the following:
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Diploma de Bachiller Cientifico - Humanistico or Diploma de Bachiller Tecnico (12 years of schooling) with a score of at least 60.
For our Master's courses, we usually require that you have successfully completed your Licenciado / Título de [subject area] / Título de Bachiller Universitario from a recognised university.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have one of the following:
For our Master's courses, we usually require that you have a Bachelor's degree (minimum 5 years) awarded by the University of Botswana or accredited by the Botswana Qualifications Authority (BQA).
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require that you have a transcript showing successful completion of one year of university study at a recognised Brazilian university, with an average of 5.0.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Certificado de Conclusão de Ensino Médio or Título de Técnico with at least 5, and evidence that you have passed your Vestibular, ENEM or PAS.
For our Master's courses, we usually require that you have successfully completed your Título de Bacharel / Título / 'Grau de Bacharel' / 'Diploma de Bacharel' from a recognised university.
View more information for students from Brunei 🇧🇳
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Brunei / Cambridge GCE A levels with at least one grade C or equivalent.
View more information for students from Bulgaria 🇧🇬
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require that you have a Bulgarian Diploma za sredno obrazovanie obtaining minimum overall grade 5.0, or 5.2 or above for Architecture.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Bulgarian Diploma za sredno obrazovanie obtaining minimum overall grade 3 or above.
Diploma za sredno obrazovani with grade 5 in English Language is accepted at UCA.
View more information for students from Cambodia 🇰🇭
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require that you have a Cambodian Associate Degree with satisfactory grades.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Cambodian Diploma of Upper Secondary Education with at least Grade C.
For our Master's courses, we usually require that you have a Cambodian Master's degree.
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require that you have successfully completed the Brevet de Technicien Supérieur with 11/20 or standard A-levels are required.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have successfully completed a Baccalaureat of General Secondary Education at grade 12 or 5 O-levels at Grade C.
For our Master's courses, we usually require that you have a Cameroonian Bachelor degree, Diplôme d'Études Supérieures de Commerce, Diplôme d'Ingénieur or Licence.
Bacculareate English Language currently accepted with minimum score of 12.
We can also accept English Language-Literature studied as part of the British or American Option of the Baccalauréat avec Option Internationale, where a grade of 10 or above has been obtained.
View more information for students from Canada 🇨🇦
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated International courses, we usually require that you have a satisfactory passes in your Canadian Secondary School Diploma or equivalent school qualification.
For undergraduate applicants who have completed Grade 12 Canadian High School/Secondary School qualifications, we require grade B or 75% in a grade 12 English module.
For postgraduate applicants, if you are a Canadian national we will be able to accept your degree level qualification to meet our English Language requirement.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Chilean Licencia de Educación / Enseñanza Media / Técnico de Nivel Medio with average grade 5 and with minimum grade 4 in all subjects.
For our Master's courses, we usually require that you have a Bachelor's degree (Título/Grado de Licenciado) awarded after 4 or more years of study from a recognised Chilean university.
View more information for students from China 🇨🇳
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Chinese Senior School graduation with 11 or 12 years of completed school study, with an average of 70% or above.
For our Integrated Pre-Masters Courses (IPM) we require a recognised bachelor degree or 3 year diploma with an average score of 70% or above, plus a strong portfolio in a relevant subject.
For our Master's courses, we usually require that you have successfully completed your Bachelor's degree from a recognised university with an average score of 70% or above.
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require that you have a transcript showing successful completion of one year of university level study with average GPA of 3.5 from a recognised Colombian university.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Colombian Bachillerato with 'desepeno basico'.
For our Master's courses, we usually require that you have successfully completed your Licenciado / Título from a recognised university.
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require that you have a French Baccalaureate or French Option Internationale du Baccalaureat (OIB) with 12 points overall or above.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a French Baccalaureate or French Option Internationale du Baccalaureat (OIB) with 10 points overall or above.
The French Bacculareate English Language is currently accepted with minimum score of 12.
View more information for students from Croatia 🇭🇷
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require that you have a Croatian Svjedodzba o Maturi (Matura Certificate) with a minimum mark of 3.8.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Croatian Svjedodzba o Maturi (Matura Certificate) with a minimum mark of 2.
An English Language Grade 4 in Matura is accepted.
View more information for students from Cyprus 🇨🇾
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have:
We accept Cyprus/Cypriot Apolytirion with 18/20 in English (Upper Secondary School Leaving Certificate).
View more information for students from Czechia 🇨🇿
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require that you have either a Czech Maturitni Zkouska/Maturita or Vysvedceni o maturitni zkousce (Secondary School Leaving Certificate) with a minimum of 2.5 overall.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Czech Maturitni Zkouska/Maturita or Vysvedceni o maturitni zkousce (Secondary School Leaving Certificate) with a minimum of 4 overall.
For undergraduate degrees we require a Grade 2 or above in Maturitni Zkouska / Vysvedceni o Matuitni Zkousce.
For our Master's courses we require a Grade 1 Maturitni Zkouska / Vysvedceni o Matuitni Zkousce.
View more information for students from Denmark 🇩🇰
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require that you have a Danish Studentereksamenor Hojere Forberedelseseksamenor Hojere Handelseksamen (HHX) / Hojere Teknisk Eksamen with minimum overall score 7 (if studying on 7 point scale) or 9 (if studying on 13 point scale).
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Danish Studentereksamenor Hojere Forberedelseseksamenor Hojere Handelseksamen (HHX) / Hojere Teknisk Eksamen with minimum overall score 2 (if studying on 7 point scale) or 6 (if studying on 13 point scale).
We accept a mark of 7 in English (levels A or B) as part of the Studentereksamen/ Hojere Forbesedels-Eksamen qualification.
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require that you have a Técnico or Técnico Superior with C/70%.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Bachillerato, taken after 12 years of schooling, with an average of 80% or better.
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require that you have successfully completed the first year of an undergraduate degree (Licenciatura) with 7/10 or 70%.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have an Ecuadorian Senior Secondary School (Bachillerato), with an overall grade of 14/20 or 7.5/10.
For our Master's courses, we usually require that you have successfully completed your Titulo de Licenciado / Titulo from a recognised university.
View more information for students from Egypt 🇪🇬
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a General Secondary Education Certificate with 65% or above.
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require that you have a Técnico with a score of 8 or better.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a completed Título de Bachiller or Título de Bachiller Técnico Vocacional with a score of 6 or better, following 12 years of completed schooling.
View more information for students from Estonia 🇪🇪
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require that you have an Estonian Gumnaasiumi loputunnistus (Secondary School Certificate) with a minimum overall score 4.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have an Estonian Gumnaasiumi loputunnistus (Secondary School Certificate) with a minimum overall score of 3.
English language B2 in Gumnaasumi loputunnistus is accepted.
View more information for students from Finland 🇫🇮
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require that you have a Finnish Ylioppilastutkinto Studentexamen with Grade C / 4 (Cum laude approbatur) or above.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Finnish Ylioppilastutkinto Studentexamen with Grade A / 2 (Approbatur) or above.
We require that you attain a mark of 5 (magna cum laude approbatur) in English as part of the Ylioppilastutkinto / Studentexamen qualification.
View more information for students from France 🇫🇷
A minimum score of 12 in the English component of your French Baccalaureate is required.
We can also accept English Language-Literature studied as part of the British or American Option of the Baccalaureat avec Option Internationale.
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require that you have:
For advanced entry (such as undergraduate top-up degrees) we usually require that you have a Gambia HND (2 years Orinary National Diploma + 2 years higher diploma).
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have an SSCE (WAEC) Senior Secondary School Certificate Examination) with five passes at grade C6 or above or IGCSE or equivalent.
For our Masters courses with Integrated International Pre-Masters, we usually require that you have a Gambia HND (2 years Ordinary National Diploma + 2 years higher diploma).
For our Master’s courses, we usually require that you have successfully completed a Master's degree at a recognised university.
A Senior School Certificate Examination - West African Exams Council (WAEC)  delivered / assessed in English) with English at grade C6 or above is accepted.
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require that you have successfully completed year 1 of Bachelor/Specialist Diploma: 60% or GPA 3.5/5.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a General education Diploma (Sashualo Ganatlebis Atestasi) grade 8.
For our Master's courses, we usually require that you have a Bachelor/Specialist Diploma at 60% or GPA 3.5/5.
View more information for students from Germany 🇩🇪
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require that you have a German Abitur with an overall grade of 2.6 or better, except for BA Architecture which requires an overall grade of 2.4 or better.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a German Abitur with an overall grade of 4 or better.
We accept a n English subject grade of 12 or better in your Abitur.
English must have been taken as a Hauptfach / Leistungskurs / Kurs mit erhohtem Anforderungsniveau, achieved within 2 years.
View more information for students from Ghana 🇬🇭
For advanced entry (such as undergraduate top-up degrees), we usually require that you have a Ghana HND (2 years Ordinary National Diploma + 2 years higher diploma).
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have an SSSCE (Senior Secondary School Certificate Examination) with five passes at grade C or above.
For our Masters courses with Integrated International Pre-Masters, we usually require that you have a Ghana HND (2 years Ordinary National Diploma + 2 years higher diploma).
We accept a Senior School Certificate Examination - West African Exams Council (WAEC)  delivered / assessed in English) with English at grade C6 or above.
View more information for students from Greece 🇬🇷
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require that you have a Greek Apolytirion of Geniko Lykeio with a minimum grade of 16.
For BA Architecture, we require an minimum grade of 18.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Greek Apolytirion of Geniko Lykeio with a minimum grade of 14.
We accept a Greek Apolytirion of Geniko Lykeio with a minimum grade of 18/20 in English in final average achieved within 2 years.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Bachiller/Bachillerato/Perito with 51% from state school and 61% from private school taken after 12 years of schooling.
For our Master's courses, we usually require that you have s uccessfully completed your Licenciado/Titulo from a recognised university.
View more information for students from Hong Kong 🇭🇰
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require a Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education with 433 (excluding Chinese, English and Liberal Studies).
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require a Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education with 322 (excluding Chinese, English and Liberal Studies).
We accept the a Hong Kong Diploma for Secondary Education (HKDSE) English Pass at the following levels:
View more information for students from Hungary 🇭🇺
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require that you have a Hungarian Erettsegi/Matura qualification with a grade of 3.5 or above.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Hungarian Erettsegi/Matura qualification with a grade of 2 or above.
We accept a minimum grade of 4 in English on the Erettsegi / Matura.
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require that you have an Icelandic Studentsprof with a score of 7.0 or better (with a grade of 5.0 or better in the English component).
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a transcript showing 12 years of completed school study in Iceland with a grade of 7/10.
We require a grade of 5.0 or better in the English component of your Studentsprof.
View more information for students from India 🇮🇳
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have an Indian HSC/Standard XII with an overall average of 50% or higher (all boards including CBSE and CISCE).
For our Master's courses, we usually require that you have successfully completed your Bachelor's degree (minimum three years) with a Pass at grade 55% from a recognised university.
We can accept the Indian Standard XII from a NARIC recognised board with minimum 70% in English (excluding Punjab or Haryana boards).
For Research Degrees a UCA-approved English test is required.
View more information for students from Indonesia 🇮🇩
View more information for students from Iran 🇮🇷
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have an Iranian High School Diploma with an overall grade of 14 or above.
View more information for students from Iraq 🇮🇶
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Certificate of Preparatory Education/ Secondary School Certificate (also known as Sixth Form Baccalaureate) with an overall grade of 65% or more.
View more information for students from Ireland 🇮🇪
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require that you have an Irish Leaving Cert (Higher Level) with H3, H3, H3, H3, H4.
We also require Ordinary Level 4 (O4) in English language in the Irish Leaving Certificate.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have an Irish Leaving Cert (Higher Level) with at least 3 Higher level subjects at H5.
View more information for students from Israel 🇮🇱
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require that you have an Israeli Bagrut (Matriculation Certificate) with an average score of 70% with at least three subjects at levels 4 or 5.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have an Israeli Bagrut (Matriculation Certificate) with an average score of 60%.
View more information for students from Italy 🇮🇹
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require that you have an Italian Esame di Stato with a grade of 70% or above.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have an Italian Esame di Stato with a grade of 60% or above.
We accept 80% or above in English in Italian Esame di Stato.
View more information for students from Japan 🇯🇵
For Advanced entry (undergraduate top-up degrees), we usually require that you have completed an Associate degree with a score of at least 70%.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have completed 12 years of Japanese High School (Upper Secondary Leaving Certificate) with average grade of 3.0/5.0 or higher.
View more information for students from Jordan 🇯🇴
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require that you have a Community College Diploma/Associate Degree with a score of 60%.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Tawjihi (secondary school certificate) with a minimum of 65%.
View more information for students from Kazakhstan 🇰🇿
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Kazakhstani Certificate of Completed Secondary Education grade 4.
For our Master's courses, we usually require that you have successfully completed your Bachelor's degree from a recognised university with 60% or 1.67/4 .
View more information for students from Kenya 🇰🇪
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE), taken after 12 years of schooling with overall grade C or above.
We accept the Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE), English - Grade C or above.
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require that you have a transcript showing successful completion of year 1 of a Bachelor's degree from a recognised Kosovan university, with average grade of 8/10
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Diplomë për Kryerjen e Shkollës së Mesme të Lartë/ Matura (High School Diploma from Kosovo) with a score of 2 or higher.
View more information for students from Kuwait 🇰🇼
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require that you have a Diploma/Certificate from PAEET College.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you Pass Shahadat Al-Thanawaya Al-Aama (General Secondary Education Certificate) with 60% overall
View more information for students from Latvia 🇱🇻
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require that you have a Latvian Atestats certificate with a minimum overall grade of C (6 point system) or point 7 (10 point system).
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Latvian Atestats certificate with a minimum overall of point 5.
We accept Atestats par visparejo videjo izgliti with grade 8 or above in English.
View more information for students from Lebanon 🇱🇧
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require that you have a Lebanese Diplôme de Technicien Supérieur or Diplôme Universitaire de Technologie with 12.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have your Lebanese Baccalauréat General or Baccalauréat Technique with score 12/20 or 60%.
For our Master's courses, we usually require that you have successfully completed your Bachelor's degree, Licence or Maîtrise from a recognised university.
View more information for students from Lithuania 🇱🇹
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require that you have a Lithuanian Brandos Atestatas achieving an overall score of 80 / 8.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Lithuanian Brandos Atestatas achieving an overall score of 50 / 5.
We accept English Language with grade of 8 in Lithuanian Brandos Atestatas.
View more information for students from Luxembourg 🇱🇺
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require that you have a Luxembourgish Diplôme de Fin d'Études Secondaires with minimum overall score of 42.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Luxembourgish Diplôme de Fin d'Études Secondaires with minimum overall score of 30.
We accept Luxembourgish Diplôme de Fin d'Études Secondaires with a grade of 46 (mention bien) or above in English.
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require that you have a Secondary School Leaving Diploma with an overall score of at least 3.5.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Secondary School Leaving Diploma with an overall score of at least 2.
For our Master's courses, we usually require that you have successfully completed your Bachelor's degree from a recognised university obtained after four to six years of study.
View more information for students from Malaysia 🇲🇾
For advanced entry, we usually require that you have:
We accept Malaysian SPM English (1119/O Level paper only) - Grade C or above (GCE-O grade only).
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a UCLES A level / Higher Secondary School Certificate (HSC) with at least one grade C or equivalent.
For our Master’s courses, we usually require that you have successfully completed a Bachelor's degree from Maldives National University.
View more information for students from Malta 🇲🇹
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require that you have a Matriculation Certificate with 2 Advanced Level subjects at BC plus 3 intermediate Level subjects at BBC.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Maltese Advanced Matriculation or Matriculation Certificate with a minimum overall grade of D.
We accept Maltese Matriculation Certificate with grade C or above in English.
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require that you have a Cambridge Overseas Higher School Certificate/GCE Advanced Level BBC.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Cambridge Higher School Certificate/General Certificate of Education Ordinary Level with 5 grade Cs.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Mexican Título Académico de Bachiller, Diploma de Bachiller or Bachillerato General with grade 6.
For our Master's courses, we usually require that you have successfully completed your Titulo de Licenciado / Titulo (Professional) from a recognised university.
For our Bachelor's and Foundation level courses, we usually require that you have a Moldovan Diploma de Bacalaureat obtaining an overall final average grade of 8 or above.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Moldovan Diploma de Bacalaureat obtaining an overall final average grade of 7.
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require that you have successfully completed one year at a Mongolian university with at least 70%.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Certificate of Complete Secondary Education with at least 70%/C.
View more information for students from Morocco 🇲🇦
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require that you have a Diplôme du Baccalauréat or Diplôme du Baccalauréat Technique with 15/20.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Diplôme du Baccalauréat or Diplôme du Baccalauréat Technique with 10/20.
For our Master's courses, we usually require that you have successfully completed your Diplôme d'Écoles Nationales de Commerce et de Gestion, Licence / Licence d'Études Fondamentales / Licence Professionnelle, Diplôme du Cycle Normal or Diplôme d'Ingénieur d'État from a recognised university.
View more information for students from Myanmar 🇲🇲
For our Bachelor’s courses, we usually require that you have successfully completed an Associate degree/Diploma (at least 2 years in duration).
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Basic Education High School Examination/Matriculation Examination with 65% overall.
For our Master’s courses, we usually require that you have successfully completed a Bachelor (Honours) Degree (at least 5 years in duration) from a recognised university.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Namibian Senior Secondary Certificate with at 5 ordinary level subjects at grade C.
View more information for students from Nepal 🇳🇵
For our Master's courses, we usually require the successful completion of a 4-year Bachelor degree from a Nepal recognised university with 60%.
We also accept a 3-year Bachelor degree with 60% from either Kathmandu University, Tribhuvan University or Pokhara University.
For degree entry we accept Higher Secondary Education Certificate (until 2017) with 65% in English component, or School Leaving Certificate Examination Grade 12 (from 2018) with GPA 2.6/4 in English component.
Please note from the September 2025 intake onwards we will no longer be accepting the School Leaving Certificate Examination or Higher Secondary Education Certificate as proof of English language, you will need to take a different accepted English Language test.
View more information for students from Netherlands 🇳🇱
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require that you have a Dutch Voorbereidend Wetenschappelijk Onderwijs (VWO) (Gymnasium A/B and Atheneum A/B) Diploma, with a minimum score of 7.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Dutch Voorbereidend Wetenschappelijk Onderwijs (VWO) (Gymnasium A/B and Atheneum A/B) Diploma, with a minimum score of 6.
We accept the English component of the VWO with a minimum grade of 7.
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require that you have a New Zealand University Entrance Certificate with National Certificates in Educational Achievement (NCEA) Level 3 - at least 60 credits with Merit.
We also require a National Certificate of Educational Achievement (NCEA), English, Achieved.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have either of the following New Zealand National Certificates in Educational Achievement (NCEA) results:
If you are a New Zealand national, we will be able to accept your degree level qualification to meet our English Language requirement.
View more information for students from Nigeria 🇳🇬
For advanced entry (year two, year three or undergraduate top-up), we usually require that you have a Nigerian HND ( 5years programme including 2 years OND + 1 Year professional Practice + 2 Higher diplomas).
For our Masters courses with Integrated International Pre-Masters, we usually require that you have a Nigerian HND (5 years programme including 2 years OND + 1 Year professional Practice + 2 Higher diplomas).
For the 1 semester programme you will need to achieve Upper Credit, and for the two semester programme you will need to achieve Lower Credit or a Pass in a university degree.
We accept a Senior School Certificate Examination - West African Exams Council (WAEC) / National Examinations Council (NECO), Grade C6 (C5 for our MBA course) or above in English Language.
View more information for students from Norway 🇳🇴
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require that you have a Norwegian Vitnemål fra den Videregående Skole with average score 3, including a score of at least 4 in English.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Norwegian Vitnemal for Videragaende Opplaering (Leaving Certificate from Upper Secondary School) with average score of 2.5/6.
We require a score of at least 4 in the English component of your Vitnemål.
(if your English score is lower than 4 then we will require you to take an IELTS test and achieve satisfactory scores).
View more information for students from Oman 🇴🇲
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have an Omani General Education Diploma with at least 70% overall.
View more information for students from Pakistan 🇵🇰
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Pakistani Higher Education Secondary School Certificate (HSSC)/Intermediate, showing 12 years of completed school study, with 60% or 3/5.
For our Master's courses with Integrated International Pre-masters, we usually require that you have successfully completed your Bachelor's degree (minimum 4 years) from a recognised university.
For our Master's courses, we usually require that you have one of the following:
View more information for students from Palestine 🇵🇸
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a General Secondary Education Certificate 'Shahadat Al-Thanawaya Al-Aama' with at least 60%.
For our Master's courses, we usually require that you have successfully completed your Licenciado/Titulo from a recognised university.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Certificado de Educación Secundaria Común Completa with 12/20.
For our Master's courses, we usually require that you have successfully completed your Grado Academico de Bachiller, Titulo de Licenciado or Titulo (Professional) from a recognised university.
View more information for students from Philippines 🇵🇭
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Philippine High School Diploma with 80% or better.
View more information for students from Poland 🇵🇱
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require that you have a Polish Maturity Exam (Egzamin dojrzalosci) with a minimum mark of 65% overall.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Polish Maturity Exam (Egzamin dojrzalosci) with a minimum mark of 50% overall.
We require a m inimum 70% in the English component of the Polish Matura.
View more information for students from Portugal 🇵🇹
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require that you have a Diploma Nivel Secundario de Educacao or Certificado Nivel Secundario de Educacao score of 15.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Portuguese Certificado de Estudos Secundarios with an overall score of 10.
For our Master's courses, we usually require that you have successfully completed your Licenciado or Diploma de Estudos Superiores Especializados from a recognised university.
We accept the Diploma Nivel Secundario de Educacao / Certificado Nivel Secundario de Educacao / Certificado de fim de Estudos Secundarios / Certidao do Decimo Segundo Ano - Pass with a 16 in English achieved within 2 years.
View more information for students from Qatar 🇶🇦
View more information for students from Romania 🇷🇴
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require that you have a Romanian Diploma de Bacalaureat obtaining an overall final average grade of 8 or above.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Romanian Diploma de Bacalaureat obtaining an overall final average grade of 5 or above.
We accept the Diploma de Bacalaureat (Baccalaureate Diploma) with grade CEFR B2 or above in all English components, achieved within 2 years.
View more information for students from Russia 🇷🇺
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require that you have a transcript showing successful completion of one year of a Bachelor's degree (Bakalavr or Specialised Diploma) from a recognised Russian university with CGPA 3.8.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have an Attestat o Sredniem Obshchem Obrazovanii with overall grade of 3.5 or better.
View more information for students from Saudi Arabia 🇸🇦
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Saudi General Secondary Education Certificate or Secondary Institute Diploma, showing 12 years of completed school study, with 65%.
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require one of the following:
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Senegalese Baccalaureate or Senegalese Option Internationale du Baccalaureat (OIB) with 12 points overall.
We accept the French Bacculareate English Language currently accepted with minimum score of 12.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Diploma of Completed Final Examination, Secondary School Leaving Diploma or Diploma of Completed Secondary Education (when studied for four years) overall grade 2.5.
For our Master's courses, we usually require that you have a successful completion of your Bachelor's degree or Advanced Diploma or Higher Education from a recognised university.
View more information for students from Singapore 🇸🇬
For advanced entry we usually require:
We accept the Singapore-Cambridge GCE O-Level English – Grade C or above.
View more information for students from Slovakia 🇸🇰
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require that you have a Slovakian Maturitna skuska / Maturita or a Vysvedcenie o Maturitnej Skuske with a minimum overall score of 2.4.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Slovakian Maturitna skuska / Maturita or a Vysvedcenie o Maturitnej Skuske with a minimum overall score of 4.
We accept the Slovakian Maturitna skuska / Maturita or a Vysvedcenie o Maturitnej Skuske with a minimum grade of 2 in English Language.
View more information for students from Slovenia 🇸🇮
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require that you have a Slovenian Matura (Secondary School Leaving Certificate) with a minimum overall grade of 20.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Slovenian Matura (Secondary School Leaving Certificate) with a minimum overall grade of 14.
Slovenian English language qualifications are not accepted.
View more information for students from South Africa 🇿🇦
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a National Senior Certificate with an average of 60%.
For undergraduate programmes we accept the South Africa National Senior Certificate (English as a first additional language or home language): Grade 3 or above.
View more information for students from South Korea 🇰🇷
For advanced entry: (year two, year three, undergraduate top-up degrees), we usually require that you have:
View more information for students from Spain 🇪🇸
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require that you have a Spanish Titulo de Bachiller achieving an average mark of 7.0 or above.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Spanish Titulo de Bachiller achieving an average mark of 5 or above.
We accept a minimum mark of 8 or above in Spanish Titulo de Bachiller for English Language.
View more information for students from Sri Lanka 🇱🇰
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have five O levels at Grade C.
For our Master's courses with Integrated International Pre-masters, we usually require that you have successfully completed a 3 or 4 year Bachelor's degree from a recognised university, with 60% overall.
For our Master's courses, we usually require that you have successfully completed a 4 year Bachelor's degree from a recognised university, with 65% overall.
For degree entry, Grade C in O level English or A level English Language and/or Literature.
View more information for students from Sudan 🇸🇩
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Sudanese School Certificate with 70%.
View more information for students from Sweden 🇸🇪
For our Bachelor's degrees, we usually require that you have an award of the Hogskoleforberedande Examen with at least 2250 points, including C in 1600 points.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have an award of the Hogskoleforberedande Examen with at least 2250 points, including C in 1150 points.
We accept Grade C in any level of English in the Fullstandigt Slutbetyg fran Gymnasasieskolan /Avgangsbetyg, achieved within 2 years.
View more information for students from Switzerland 🇨🇭
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require a Swiss Certificat de Maturité, Maturitätszeugnis, Attestato di Maturità or equivalent school qualification with a score of 4.
We require a mark of at least 5 in the English component of your Swiss Certificat de Maturité, Maturitätszeugnis, Attestato di Maturità or an equivalent school qualification.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Syrian General Secondary Certificate (al Shahâda al-Thânawiyya al-cÄmma or Baccalauréat), showing completion of 12 years of school study, with the minimum pass-mark in your stream (118/280 in Literary Stream or 116/290 in Scientific Stream).
For our Master's courses, we usually require that you have successfully completed your Bachelor's degree (Al-Ijâza fi or Licence) from a recognised university.
View more information for students from Taiwan 🇹🇼
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Senior High School graduation with 12 years of completed school study, with an average of 70%.
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require that you have a successful completion of year 1 of a Bakalavr or Specialist Diploma at a recognised Tajik university, with an average of 60% or 3.5/5.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Diploma of Completed Vocational Education  or Certificate of Completed Secondary Education with grade 4.
For our Master's courses, we usually require that you have successfully completed a Specialist Diploma at a recognised Tajik university, with an average of 60% or 3.5/5.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Certificate of Secondary Education Examination with Division 1.
View more information for students from Thailand 🇹🇭
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Thai Certificate of Secondary Education (Maw 6) showing 12 years of completed school study with an average grade 2.5.
View more information for students from Turkey 🇹🇷
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Turkish Devlet Lise Diplomasi or Lise Bitirme Diplomasi with 55/100 or 2.75/5.
View more information for students from Ukraine 🇺🇦
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require that you have a transcript showing successful completion of one year of Bachelor Degree or Specialist Diploma from a recognised Ukrainian university, with GPA 4.0/5.0.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Ukrainian Certificate of Complete General Secondary Education with 6/12 or 3/5.
View more information for students from United Arab Emirates 🇦🇪
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have an Emirati Tawjahiya (Secondary School Leaving Certificate) showing 12 years of completed school study with 65%.
View more information for students from United States 🇺🇸
For advanced entry (year two, year three, undergraduate top-up degrees), we usually require that you have one of the following:
You will also need to meet the following English language requirements:
Most students who have studied at degree level at a recognised US institution will be exempt from further English Language tests.
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require that you have successfully completed year 1 of a Diplomi (Specialist Diploma) or a Magistr Diplomi (masters degree) with at least 60% or 3.5/5.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have an Umumiy o'rata ta'lim to'g'risida attestat/Shahodatnoma (Certificate of General Secondary Education) grade 3.
For our Master's courses, we usually require that you have s uccessfully completed the Diplomi (Specialist Diploma) or a Magistr Diplomi (masters degree) with at least 60% or 3.5/5.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated International Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Título de Bachiller /Título de Educación Media General /Título de Técnico Medio with 12/20.
View more information for students from Vietnam 🇻🇳
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Vietnamese Bang Tot Nghiep Trung Hoc Pho Thong (THPT) (Senior Secondary School Grduation Diploma) or equivalent vocational qualification with a GPA of 5 or better.
For our Bachelor's courses, we usually require that you have an award of the Zimbabwe Schools Examination Council (ZIMSEC) GCE A Level with grades BBC at principal level.
For our International Foundation in Creative Practices and our Integrated Foundation courses, we usually require that you have a Zimsec O-level/Cambridge School Certificate (CSC): 5 passes grades C.
We accept a Grade C at Zimsec O level.
If you take the IELTS test you will need to achieve the following scores ( or an equivalent from other UCA-approved English tests ):
If you are studying the International Baccalaureate, the number of points you need to achieve can vary depending on the strength of your portfolio and the number of Higher Level points you achieve.
As a guide, the number of points applicants are usually asked to achieve is:
We do occasionally make offers lower than this entry criteria, to students with a strong portfolio or those who have faced difficulties that have affected their performance and who were expected to achieve a higher result.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/international/language-requirements-support:
If you'd like to study at UCA, you'll need to have a certain level of English language skill.
And so, to make sure you meet the requirements of your course, we ask for evidence of your English language ability.
If your language skills need improving we offer a number of courses to get your English up to the required level.
When you apply for a Student Route visa, you need to prove your English language ability.
If you need a Student Route visa to study a below degree course (RQF level 3 or 4), e.g.
International Foundation, Further Education or Pre-sessional English Language courses, you need to take a test recognised by the Home Office.
This is called a Secure English Language Test.
UCA accepts SELT tests below.
The SELT is only valid for two years, so if you have taken it before applying to UCA, please make sure it is still in date.
If you need a Student Route visa, you do not need to take a SELT if one of the following applies:
C1 Expert Pass
75
7
If you are applying for an undergraduate course at UCA, we will consider equivalent academic qualifications from your home country as your English language skill evidence.
You can check the accepted qualification and the required score on the International equivalent qualifications page .
Please note that in general, there is a two year's validity of an alternative English language qualification, so please check with us if you are not sure whether your qualification can be used in place of the UCA approved test.
If you are applying for an undergraduate course at UCA, we will consider equivalent academic qualifications from your home country .
We also accept both UK and internationally recognised qualifications as evidence of your English language efficiency.
Please check the table below.
Please note that English qualifications are generally valid for two years, so please check with us if you're not sure whether your English qualification can be used in place of a SELT or UCA approved test.
English Language or English Literature: Grade A*-C
60 overall with no less than 60 in listening, and 55 in reading, writing and speaking
60 overall with no less than 55 in each subtest
6.0 overall with no less than 5.5 overall
If you are applying for a postgraduate course at UCA, any of the following can be accepted as evidence of your English language efficiency:
Our Pre-sessional courses both online and on the campus in the UK support your English language development and academic context of art, design and media to raise your English language level before progressing on to your main UCA course.
Please visit the Pre-sessional English page for more information.
We offer English courses of different durations, to match your level and requirements.
Our English for Art and Design course is specifically designed to prepare you to study art and design, while English for Business is equally tailored to prepare for our business and management courses.
These pre-sessional courses at UCA are aimed at supporting international students who have received and accepted a conditional offer to study with us.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/international/international-summer-school:
Watch: UCA International Summer School
At UCA we help you to turn your creative ideas into reality and our International Summer School is the perfect opportunity to work with likeminded talented students from across the world to develop your skills, your personal portfolio and your understanding of the UK's creative industries and educational opportunities.
During this intense 2 week long programme of creative discovery, you will be guided and supported by our expert, industry connected creative academics and technical staff to explore a broad range of creative activities to challenge and develop your insight into where your strengths lie and result in a unique piece of work for your personal portfolio in one of the following subject areas:
Please be advised that the following courses are no longer available:
* Students aged 16 - 17 years may only apply for the Art and Design Portfolio Development course .
Additionally, whether applying independently or arranging a group application, students, parents, group organisers and chaperones should read the relevant additional guidance in the FAQ section prior to submitting their application.
You can download a copy of the official International Summer School brochure below:
In addition to the wealth of subject knowledge and memories to last a lifetime, at the end of your 2 week programme you will:
Applications for UCA's International Summer School 2025 are now closed.
If you have any questions about our International Summer School, please contact our team on summerschool@ucreative.ac.uk.
Contact us
UCA is delighted to host 2 Summer programmes for 2025 for students aged 16-25.
The content of both programmes will be identical in course content and study trips.
Please see the dates below and pick an option that suits you best:
**Note: changes to details listed below.
As of 31st March, early bird discount price is no longer available, all new applicants will be required to pay full fee of £2600.
Full fee payment deadline for new applicants is extended to 31st May 2025.**
The total cost of UCA’s International Summer School is £2,600.
However, we are pleased to offer an early bird discounted fee of £2,340 to any students who pay their fee in full by Sunday 30th March 2025.
Students who pay after 30th March 2025 will be charged the full fee.
Each fee includes a £500 non-refundable deposit to be paid as soon as possible after submitting your application, with the final deadline of 30th March 2025.
The remaining balance must be paid in full by the following dates:
When you submit your application form, you will receive an instant confirmation email which will contain the link to UCA's online store where you can make your deposit payment.
You can also use the same link to access the store to pay your outstanding balance.
* Additional costs may apply to certain optional events.
Please note: Travel to the UK, visa costs and other personal travel and living expenses are not included, e.g.
evening meals and any food purchased on study trip days.
We suggest that students should allow a budget of approximately £20 - £50 per day for additional food and drink.
Please note chaperones are welcome to attend both of our summer programmes.
Educational institutions who send a group of 10 or more students will be entitled to send 1 free chaperone to accompany their group.
For programme 2, groups of, or groups that include, under 18s will be required to provide an appointed chaperone from the sending institution regardless of the group size for the application to be accepted.
For both programmes, groups of 9 or less students that require chaperone supervision or for any additional chaperones wishing to attend, please note that due to limited space availability, a fee of £750 is payable.
All refunds will be issued at the discretion of the Summer School team and will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis.
Should you need to withdraw at any point please contact us on summerschool@ucreative.ac.uk to advise.
Students who withdraw having made only their deposit payment will not receive a refund.
Students who withdraw after paying their fee in full, will be given a full refund less the £500 nonrefundable deposit.
Students who are forced to withdraw due to a visa refusal will receive 100% refund, including their deposit, less a £100 admin fee.
If you do apply for a refund due to a visa refusal, this can only be acknowledged where evidence of the visa refusal is provided.
Refunds are available until the start of your chosen programme.
**Note: change to details below.
Application deadline for 2025 has been extended to 31st May 2025**
Please complete your application form by no later than Sunday 30th March 2025 and make your fee payments by the dates outlined above.
Please ensure that you meet our entry requirements and read, understand and agree to our terms and conditions when you complete the application form .
Programme 1 - Ages 16 - 25 years - Independent and group bookings welcome.
Programme 2 - Ages 16 - 17 years - Group bookings only with accompanying chaperone.
Ages 18 - 25 years - Independent and group bookings welcome.
Group applications should be submitted by the sending institution on behalf of all students.
Independent and group bookings can both be submitted via the link above.
When you submit your application form, you will receive an instant confirmation email which will include the link to UCA's online store where you can make your deposit payment.
You can also use the same link to pay the outstanding balance.
Please make sure to check your spam/junk inbox for this email.
Please note, your deposit payment will reserve your space but your place on the course is not guaranteed until full payment and requested accompanying documentation is received.
Course Aims
If you are looking for a boost to take your creative portfolio to the next level or jump start your arts education application process, this course will support you in developing a portfolio that stands out against the rest.
You'll learn about UCA's content requirements for portfolios and how to build your own portfolio as you move forward in your creative career.
You'll explore a broad range of challenging creative activities enabling you to develop an insight into where your personal strengths lie and what you most enjoy.
This is the perfect preparatory course if you're considering further creative art and design study.
Course Overview
The structure of this course will develop your visual language skills and your ability to turn what you see and think into a cohesive personal visual statement.
The nature of the course will vary slightly for each individual depending on the way in which you explore your own creativity.
Throughout the course you will learn how visual language can be used to tell stories and explain ideas.
You'll be guided in developing your own unique perspective across different creative practices through workshops that range from traditional printmaking to contemporary digital techniques.
This programme is especially designed to develop your practical and creative skills, challenging you to move closer towards your creative goals.
At the end of the course you will:
If you have a sharp mind for strategy and are looking to combine your creative flare with tested industry techniques then this is the course for you.
Perfect for anyone looking to turn their passion into a career in the creative business sector, this course will expand your understanding and provide a foot hold when getting started in this multi-million pound industry.
Over an intensive 2 weeks, this course will enable you to further develop your creative management skills and business acumen, supporting professional development in your preferred creative industry.
It will help you understand the essential link between creativity, business and design.
Through a series of lectures, workshops and creative projects you will develop the core skills of creative business and critical thinking, then apply these to your own reimagined creative business proposal.
You will explore the creative industries, develop confidence in creative business and your understanding of how trends emerge and are identified.
You will be introduced to the concepts, theories and models utilised in marketing and communications, learning to understand the importance of the consumer relationship, which is the focus of marketing and business strategy, as well as the creative researching and thinking techniques which support these.
To encourage your experimentation, creativity and enterprise, you will take part in creative workshops using our extensive facilities, which are available to all students, supported by our skilled technicians.
At the end of the course, you will have developed your own unique response to specific creative business challenges in line with industry standards.
During this course you will explore the creative and technical principles of film production for a variety of media platforms.
From concept and planning, to technical lighting, camerawork and post production, this course provides a comprehensive overview of the key skills needed to successfully navigate the world of moving image media.
On this hands-on 2 week crash course, you will use industry standard techniques and technology whilst learning from our experienced academics and technical tutors to challenge your skills and creative multimedia.
You will be introduced to the ideas, processes and skills needed to develop a concept from pre-production, through to the editing and post production process.
While gaining practical experience on a film shoot, you will learn the essential principles of lighting, sound and framing, as well as operating the film and sound equipment yourself.
This will develop your confidence and competence in film production.
Working in a small group, you will be challenged to produce a short film that captures an idea through the visual techniques you have learned and communicates an effective micro narrative.
Resulting in an exciting addition to any show reel!
Over this 2 week course you will explore the fundamental principles of interior architecture and design through both 2 and 3 dimensional exploration.
This dynamic programme will enable you to design and construct simple structures, consider the relationship to the human body, materials and physical presence.
During this process your understanding and work will be developed with the support of our talented academic team through intentional feedback and exploration of historical architectural landmarks.
After completion, you will have the opportunity to record your newly designed structures through professional photographic techniques, supported by technical specialist in preparation for presentation at the final exhibition.
You will be introduced to a range of creative processes and techniques to help you develop your design thinking.
Combining drawing, photography and basic 3D assembly, you will explore scaled ideas for a structure in response to design challenges.
As you progress, you will move up in scale to start testing the detail of your design, including its purpose, stability, material, communication and expression.
These essential tests will support and define your project direction as you move up to full scale.
The finished structure might take the form of an interior element, architectural feature or a small architectural structure.
Once complete, you will capture this in a photoshoot.
The course will culminate in an exhibition of your interior architecture and design project with a portfolio documentation of supporting work.
This course is dedicated to the rapid development of early career designers and design students committed to enhancing their knowledge of the fundamentals of design and challenging your perspective on visual communication.
It sees to explore and expand the deign relationship between concept and communication.
Through a series of experimental workshops in making we challenge you to rethink and reimagine flat digital design aesthetics in our authentic printmaking studios, supported by our team of expert technical practitioners.
Explore depth of composition and digitisation in our industry standard studios.
Get professional level feedback from our experienced academic tutors in layering type and image to create dynamic and compelling professional outcomes that will set you apart at any interview.
You will work with industry level design practitioners from our academic team through a series of hands-on practical workshops.
Explore the relationship between foundational visual language techniques and how these can be intentionally applied to create effective communication through typography, image treatment and layout.
Working with abode creative cloud software, you will discover ways to adapt and enhance traditional print and practical work through sensitive digital processes.
You will receive targeted feedback to support the development of polished professional outcomes, expanding your design knowledge and tuning your aesthetic judgment.
This course is designed to support the development of your own distinctive visual illustrative style by expanding your understanding of visual language.
It is the perfect choice for anyone looking to explore expressive mark making, building impactful colour palettes and wondering how to present your work more professionally.
Developing your voice as an illustrator is central to defining a visual niche and moving away from replicating existing styles.
This exciting 2 week programme will go beyond drawing to challenge your creative practice and extend your understanding through traditional European printmaking and digital software techniques, hosted in our beautiful workshop and studio spaces, supported by experience and enthusiastic practitioners.
You will be introduced to a variety of visual considerations, exploring the relationship between image and concept through colour, texture and expressive mark making.
You will develop your own skills and unique stylistic approach through a range of traditional print making techniques, exploring the transformative nature of process.
Through digital layering of different techniques, combining image and type, you will develop your work to produce professionally presented outcomes that showcase your illustrative ability to its best effect.
Are you looking for an opportunity to develop a unique and stylised visual perspective across still and moving imagery with the support of expert technicians?
Whether for social media, business applications or creative expression, this is the course for you!
This programme is committed to supporting the development of your individual aesthetic approach to the art-direction of imagery through access to industry standard studio spaces, world class expertise and high-end professional equipment.
Everything you need to learn how to see the world around you through a different lens!
In this eye opening 2 week programme you will develop a set of still moving image assets with a clear and consistent visual perspective, rooted in creative communication.
You will get a crash course in framing, composition and styling whilst developing your understanding of how they impact your message.
You will experiment with how changing visual style creates and effects mood, explore the power of perception and use both physical and digital techniques to develop your outcomes.
This course explores the exciting world of 360ᵒ media through traditional techniques and cutting edge technology.
We invite you to join us in exploring the unique spatial and narrative challenges of designing for and storytelling in this bold new space.
A valuable programme for those interested in game design, film, visual communication or exploring the potential of this technology.
Utilising virtual reality interface alongside multi-directional capture technologies, you will discover the possibilities, limitations and challenges of 3D scanning and working in 360ᵒ, informed by the expertise of practitioners in relevant professional fields.
During the course you will work with our expert technicians to plan, develop and create your own 360ᵒ experience.
Creating an unusual outcome which will stand out in any creative application process.
360ᵒ media is, at its heart, a multi disciplinary space.
During this compelling 2 week exploration you will develop your understanding of established visual language, narrative and storytelling devices through traditional media workshops with our expert film and media technicians.
This grounding will enable you to effectively design, plan and develop a creatively rich 360ᵒ experience.
You will learn about the scope of 360ᵒ graphics and the differences between outward and inward facing 360ᵒ experiences.
Explore how 2-dimentional film, imagery and design techniques translate to 3D space and experiment with creating 3D visuals through a variety of techniques.
You will develop and execute an engaging professional 360ᵒ outcome that showcases your new knowledge with the support of established practitioners.
Interested in traditional craft practice and reconnecting with the making process?
This course might just be for you!
Explore material process and learn to work with the beautiful natural materials of clay and glass under the supervision of our expert technicians in this sensory rich, tactile leaning programme.
On this course you will discover the rewarding creative possibility of collaborating directly with raw materials using all beginner friendly techniques.
Discover the limitations and potential of this fascinating world of 3-dimensional making in our established workshops.
Exploring traditional methods of moulding and shaping before transforming your work though the heat of the kiln into a unique final piece.
Our skilled practitioners will guide you in learning the basic principles and skills of safely working in glass and ceramics.
Getting hands on experience, you will apply and develop your new knowledge by shaping and layering glass, working with the heat of the kiln in ways you may not have previously considered.
Throwing clay on the wheel you will discover new tools and techniques to move and control the process while getting direct feedback on form to rapidly enhance your technical ability.
You will expand your understanding of materials, shape and process, while developing your own unique final outcome through a multi-step making process.
Supported by experienced tutors every step of the way, you will be guided from first concept through to final finishing to prepare your final piece for exhibition and documentation.
England's vibrant capital and the UK's largest city, London offers dynamic experiences for first-time and returning visitors alike.
Explore iconic museums and galleries, tour historic landmarks like the Tower of London, Westminster Abbey, Big Ben and Buckingham Palace, catch a West End show, visit Abbey Road or enjoy shopping at Oxford Street, Camden Market or Piccadilly Circus.
With the addition of countless dining options, there's something for every taste!
Our programme includes guided group tours led by UCA staff to help you discover London in the way you want, plus free time to explore on your own.
Brighton blends the charm of a traditional English seaside with a vibrant, quirky city vibe.
Known for its fun and inclusive atmosphere, there's something for everyone!
Enjoy classic fish and chips on the pebble beach, savor an ice cream on the pier and explore 'The Lanes' with unique shops offering art, crafts, antiques and more - we're sure you'll find something special.
Alongside its lively city center and beach, Brighton offers museums, galleries and historic sites all within walking distance.
You can also opt to visit the stunning Seven Sisters cliffs, a short bus ride away in the South Downs National Park, which has been the filming location for many films and tv series'.
Famed for its prestigious University, Oxford is an historic city with striking Gothic and Baroque architecture, emodying classic English culture.
Known as a backdrop for films like Harry Potter and Wonka, and inspiring tales like The Chronicles of Narnia and The Hobbit, Oxford is steeped in literary and cinematic heritage.
Our visit includes a guided walking tour with a local expert, who will share the city's rich history and take you to iconic filming spots and literary landmarks.
After the tour, you can choose to further explore Oxford independently or head to Bicester Village, a designer outlet just 20 minutes away, for discounted shopping.
University Walk
On campus accommodation
Student Room
Single occupancy room with en-suite bathroom
Accommodation
Shared kitchen and living area
We are pleased to welcome all students to our International Summer School.
Our courses assume little, to no, prior knowledge of your chosen subject before you arrive, however if you do have a basic understanding this will also not be a disadvantage to you.
Whilst UCA does not request you to provide evidence of your English Language proficiency as part of your application, please note that all studio sessions, workshops, study trips and evening activities will be delivered 100% in English, therefore to ensure you are able to get the most out of your experience and your time in the UK, we ask that you have a basic proficiency of listening and speaking in English so that you can settle and feel comfortable during your stay.
UCA staff will be on hand and available to you 24/7 whilst you are in the UK and will support you in many aspects.
For example, we offer:
I ncluded in your fee is a door to door meet-and-greet service between UCA's Farnham campus and any London based airport.
This service will be available for the duration of each weekend at the start and end of your programme to provide you with the flexibility to arrive and depart either on the Saturday or Sunday to best fit with your travel plans.
Upon arrival to campus you will be met by a member of the summer school team who will welcome you and guide you to your accommodation.
Staff will also be on site upon your departure to ensure you make your transfer on time for your onward journey.
Specific details about this service will be shared later in the year.
If you decide to travel outside of the dates and times that we offer the service, you will be required to make and pay for your own arrangements.
The Summer School team can assist you with planning this.
Visas
Before leaving home, it is your responsibility to research and implement your own visa requirements, make sure you are fully aware of the process involved and allow enough time to make your visa application and to have it approved and in place ready for your departure date.
Please be advised that UCA summer school team are not permitted to provide any visa advice.
We would recommend that in the first instance you check the UK government website and if you are still unclear, email the summer school team who can forward your enquiry to UCA's visa compliance team.
Flights
The cost of the International Summer School does not include flights.
You are responsible for booking your own flights to and from the UK.
UCA cannot accept responsibility or assist if you miss your flight, if your flight is cancelled or if you are required to cancel your flight.
Deadlines
As an attendee of UCA's International Summer School, you will be requested to provide various information and documentation as part of the application process.
These will be requested as needed and each request will be accompanied with a deadline by which the information needs to be received by the summer school team.
Please ensure that you meet each given deadline so that no delays are caused to you in the process.
All requested information must be received prior to the start of your chosen programme.
UK laws
The UK has strict laws regarding legal ages.
It is against the law for individuals aged 17 and under to purchase alcohol/cigarettes/ e-cigarettes, to have alcohol/cigarettes/e-cigarettes purchased on their behalf and to drink alcohol in licensed premises.
It is also against the law for individuals of any age to smoke in indoor and enclosed public spaces.
Most venues, including UCA's campus has designated smoking areas.
Students and chaperones attending UCA's International summer school are expected to fully comply with these laws for the duration of the Summer School.
If the laws in your home country differ to those stated above and state a higher age limit, whilst in the UK students will be held to UK laws only, should a parent wish for their child to still observe their home laws, this must be communicated to the UCA Summer School team prior to the students' arrival.
If you have any questions, please contact us on summerschool@ucreative.ac.uk
Whilst we always hope for a lovely hot summer in the UK, temperatures can vary usually with a high of around 22 degrees Celsius (72 degrees Fahrenheit).
When packing, keep in mind that study trips will involve a lot off walking, and the weather in England is changeable day by day so layered clothing is highly recommended.
Below is a list of essential and suggested items for you to include when preparing for your trip.
Essential:
Suggested:
If you forget anything, please note that all essential items are readily available in the UK and the area in which you are staying has plenty of shops where you will be able to purchase these items.
Our International Summer School offers a taste of full-time student life at UCA, complete with evening social activities.
These include creative workshops in different subject areas, giving you the chance to discover new creative fields and explore our facilities.
In addition to campus-based workshops, we'll host social events where you can unwind and connect with fellow students outside the classroom.
Events will be held on campus, in the Student Union event space and in the town.
Further details of the evening activities on offer will be shared later in the academic year.
UCA's International Summer School will be hosted at our campus in Farnham - a quaint market town in Surrey, England.
Your accommodation is provided for the duration of the programme and the cost is covered within your fee.
You will be staying in our newly built accommodation which is based on the university campus and within a 5 minute walk of the town center.
In flats sleeping up to 8 individuals, this self catered accommodation, consists of single occupancy bedrooms, each with its own private en-suite bathroom which includes a sink, toilet and shower and hand towel.
Bedrooms will have a bed (made up ready for your arrival), wardrobe, desk and chair.
Each flat also has a shared living and kitchen area where you can mix and relax w ith your fellow flat mates.
The shared kitchen is stocked with a fridge, freezer, cutlery, crockery, saucepans and some essential cooking utensils.
Upon arrival, each student will be issued with a key which provides access to the main entrance of their accommodation building, the front door to their flat as well as their private bedroom door ensuring students' full security.
UCA also has laundry facilities on campus a short walk from the accommodation.
Instructions on how to access and use these will be provided upon arrival.
Please see below an outline of the scheduled programme, this is subject to change.
Week 1
Arrivals
Airport pick-up service
Week 2
Departures
Airport drop-off service
UCA is pleased to welcome students aged 16-17 years to our International Summer School programmes.
The UK employs strict safeguarding laws for children aged under 18 and it is around these laws that UCA has developed its safeguarding policy, which implements some additional guidelines (whether attending independently or as part of an organised group).
These laws and policies are in place to ensure the safety and wellbeing of all students and staff in attendance and are expected to be adhered to at all times.
All students must be aged 16+ when they arrive to UCA’s accommodation for the start of their programme.
Applicants will be asked to provide a scanned copy of their passport during the application process.
If it is determined that they will not be aged 16+, their application will be automatically withdrawn and they will be notified by email.
Independent applicants may only apply to programme 1.
Organised groups attending with an appointed chaperone may apply to programme 1 or 2.
All students aged 16-17 years may only apply for the Art and Design Portfolio Development course whether they attend as an individual or with a group.
Whilst students are studying at UCA, they are expected to observe UK laws and UCA policies around drinking alcohol and smoking.
UCA will have a zero tolerance approach to any students aged 16-17 who are found to not be observing these laws.
Students will be reminded of these during their induction activities.
Please click on the relevant link(s) below for more information.
Individual Applicants aged 16-17 years
Group Bookings (including students aged 16-17 years)
The following information applies to all chaperones whether accompanying a group of students aged under 18 or over 18 years.
Appointed chaperones for groups including students aged 16-17 years should also closely read the ‘Group Bookings’ information found in the 'What additional guidance is there for students attending who are aged 16-17 years?' section, so they are clear on the expectations and responsibilities that are included in accepting this position.
Chaperone information.
students using camera
A student focusing on their work in preparation for printing
students artwork in lino workshop
glass workshop
Advertising Students
Students standing in front of Brighton pier
Screen Printing
students outside Buckingham palace
Gaming Students
photography
ceramics
Architecture display

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/fees-finance:
Going to university is one of the biggest investments in your future you'll make.
It's a good idea to learn as much as you can about costs and money management before you arrive - from your tuition fees and student loans to your accommodation and living costs.
Here you'll find all the information you need for your level of study, plus details of UCA's financial support and helpful links to blogs about managing your finances.
Fees and funding for Undergraduate students
Fees and funding for Postgraduate students
Fee discounts and Scholarships
Payments can be made by a number of different online options
Regulations, along with tuition fees for previous academic years
There are lots of financial factors you need to consider when you start university, and during your time as a student.
We're here to help you!
So read on for our top hints and tips for managing your day-to-day finances.
Alongside tuition fees, your course will come with others costs that you'll need to budget for.
Now, these costs will vary depending on the course you'll choose, and we'll let you know what essentials and recommended materials and equipment we think you should have in your course welcome guides ahead of your arrival.
As a guide, you should expect to need the following:
University involves a lot of juggling - your studies, your social life and your finances.
All of them are important - but keeping on top of your money and spending wisely will make a huge difference.
Here are our top five tips on how to manage your money:
1.
Jot down your budget – know exactly what you’ve got coming in and going out.
2.
Find out what you can get for free – check out websites like Save the Student for regular student freebies.
3.
Shop smart – grab a student discount card and look for discounts, both on the high street and online.
4.
Save on travel – get a 16-25 railcard to save a third on rail fares and check with your local authority for travel-saver deals.
5.
Steer clear of commercial finance – things like credit cards, store cards and loans tend to carry higher interest rates than student loans, usually around 20%.
There is also a huge amount of useful info for students on the Money Saving Expert website.
It tells you all you’ll need to know about tuition fees and loans, as well as giving essential information on budgeting, borrowing, and bank accounts.
An essential read for anyone thinking of starting a degree.
And if you need to speak to somebody, we have friendly and knowledgeable specialist advisers at each of our campuses who can help with fees and funding in general.
Part-time work is an essential part of student life for some.
Not only can you earn a bit of extra cash but it can make your CV more attractive to prospective employers in the future.
If you work during term time, we recommend that you work a maximum of 15 hours a week to get the work/study/social balance right.
Work on campus could include:
Off-campus, you could look at:
Our careers service has a list of part-time jobs, many of which provide opportunities to practice the skills you're learning on your course.
Check out these links for more information about all things student finance:
Read our latest blogs on finances, from budgeting and saving money with smartphone apps, to what to buy before you arrive.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/study-abroad/incoming:
Are you interested in joining a creative community and realising your creative vision while gaining incredible life experiences living and studying in the UK?
Through our Study Abroad programme you can spend a semester or full academic year studying at UCA and earn credits towards your home university degree.
You will become a part of a creative community, where you will learn from our expert academics using state-of-the-art facilities, grow your practical skills, gain new perspective and industry insights.
It will also help you improve your language skills, learn about UK culture and the arts, and make a new network of international friends.
Check out the options below.
UCA partners with institutions worldwide to offer students the opportunity to spend either a term or a full academic year studying at UCA.
To qualify for an exchange place , you must be enrolled at one of our schools and nominated by your institution.
If your nomination is successful, we will formally invite you to apply to UCA.
The nomination and application deadlines are as follows:
Full Year (September – May)
If you are studying outside the UK and would like to spend part of your degree studying at UCA and are not enrolled at one of our partner universities, you can still become a part of our community through our Fee Paying Study Abroad programme.
Through this programme, you can study a semester or full academic year at UCA and pay tuition fees directly to UCA.
We offer a range of credit-bearing modules at one of our campuses , which will give you experience studying in the UK.
Follow the 5 steps to find out how you can apply to UCA’s Study Abroad programme.
Find out more
Find out more information about studying abroad at UCA and the experience that awaits you.
Academic Requirements
You should have completed at least the first year of a university degree in a relevant subject area to the course delivered at UCA.
You will need to supply your transcript when applying to UCA.
English Language Requirements
If English is not your first language or you are currently not studying a degree program in English, a qualification may be required as evidence that you have the necessary level of English language to succeed in your chosen course.
For more information view our UCA Exchange Language Requirements
As an Exchange Student you can choose to study the second year of a UCA course for either the Autumn or Spring Semester, or the full academic year.
To find a complete list of courses and units available please go to our Course Catalogue .
UCA courses have specific academic entry requirements, so make sure you check these before you apply.
We also recommend you discuss your choices with your home university and make sure they are relevant to your degree.
Exchange Programme
To apply for the UCA Exchange Programme you must be studying with a partner university and be nominated by your home university.
Approved students will be invited by UCA to apply, and sent a link to a formal application, where you will be asked to provide:
Fee-Paying Study Abroad
Apply directly to UCA.
Please contact the UCA Study Abroad team at exchange@uca.ac.uk to check your eligibility.
Exchange students
You will continue to pay your tuition fees to your home university, and you will not be asked to pay any fees to UCA.
You will be responsible for your own living expenses, including travel costs, accommodation, insurance etc.
Fee Paying Study Abroad students
You will be required to pay all UCA application and tuition fees for the duration of your study at UCA, as well as your own living expenses.
Please see Incoming Study Abroad fees for more details.
It’s very important that you find the right accommodation to suit your needs while you are in the UK.
Choose from campus halls of residence, privately rented flats and houses or local lodgings.
Find out more about our accommodation at your campus, including how to apply here or contact our accommodation team at accommodation@uca.ac.uk .
Depending on the country of origin and the length of study, the student may require a visa to enter and study in the UK.
Visitor Visa – Exchange placements for up to 6 months
For exchange periods less than 6 months, students can come to the UK on a visitor visa.
Students are not permitted to work on this visa including unpaid internships.
If you are a national of the EU/EEA, you will need an ETA from 2 April 2025 and you can apply online from 5 March 2025 .
If you are a non-visa national from outside the EU/EAA you will need an ETA from 8 January 2025 and can apply ETA online from 27 November 2024 .
Before these dates, non-visa nationals will be issued a visa on entry to the UK.
Important: If you enter the UK on a visitor visa, you will not be permitted to work in the UK.
This means you will not be able to enrol in UCA work placement modules, unpaid internships, or paid or unpaid work.
The study rights to this visa cannot be extended.
If a student wishes to extend their study at UCA for a period over six months, the student will be required to depart the UK and apply for a student route visa before returning.
Student Route Visa – Exchange placement over six months
Students coming to the UK for more than six months will need to apply for a Student Route visa, which will be issued by the UCA International Admissions team and must be granted before arrival in the UK.
If at any time, students decide to reduce their period of study.
In that case, the University will notify the UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) Department of the Home Office of a course’s alternation and earlier departure date.
The UKVI would then curtail (shorten) students' visas to be in line with the new study period.
On a Student Route visa, students would be permitted to work 20 hours per week in the UK during term time and full time during official vacation periods.
Please note that there are several restrictions on the types of work that you could do on a Student Route visa; for more information, please see the UK Council for International Student Affairs (UKCISA) website for more information.
More information:
For up-to-date visa information please consult the GOV.UK website which can help to determine whether students need to obtain a visa before they travel to the UK and will provide official information about the rules and requirements: www.gov.uk/student-visa .
For further information on visas email visaadvice@uca.ac.uk or visit uca.ac.uk/international/visas-and-immigration/ .
Please note visa information provided in this document is general in nature, and correct at the time of drafting.
The UK government and/or UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) may change visa requirements and regulations at any time.
We recommend that you take out travel and health insurance prior to departing your home country and arriving in the UK.
If you are studying for a period of less than six months, you will not be eligible for free UK health care under the NHS and will be consider a private patient.
This means you will need to pay for any NHS care at point of us.
We advise that you take out private health insurance cover during your stay.
If your are studying at UCA for 6 months or more you will be eligible for NHS health care (excluding dental treatment eye test, prescriptions).
You will be required to pay a  immigration health surcharge as part of your visa application.
For more information, including surcharge costs please visit - www.gov.uk/healthcare-immigration-application .
You‘re never alone at UCA – whether it’s help settling in, assistance with your studies, counselling or even advice on your finances, our student services department is here to support you.
We also offer specialist support services to help our international students, those who are young carers or are care leavers and to our students who have disabilities, medical conditions and specific learning differences.
For more information on our services can be found here .
You can contact the UCA Global Mobility team via exchange@uca.ac.uk .
UCA partners with institutions around the world to offer students the opportunity to Study Abroad.
UCA is also a member of CONAHEC and open to all CONAHEC member institutions.
View our Exchange Partners

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/international/visas-and-immigration:
This page provides you with information and signposting to the things you’ll need to know about applying for your student visa and preparing for travel to the United Kingdom.
The University for the Creative Arts has the status of a Student Route Visa Sponsor with a Track Record of Compliance.
This status recognises sponsors who show a good history of compliance with their sponsor duties and whose students comply with the terms of their visa or permission to stay in the UK.
As a sponsor we take our obligations on immigration compliance very seriously.
For general visa information you can also take a look the UKCISA website.
For any queries regarding your student visa, please contact the relevant team.
Email us now

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/accommodation:
Moving away from home can be one of the biggest steps in student life.
Wherever you’re staying while you study, our job is to make sure you feel settled and happy.
Here, you'll find information about your accommodation options, together with details of how to apply, and answers to some FAQs.
Explore the halls accommodation on offer at our campuses in Canterbury, Epsom, and Farnham.
Accommodation at UCA Canterbury
Accommodation at UCA Epsom
Accommodation at UCA Farnham
Accommodation at Maidstone TV Studios
Find out more about accommodation at UCA
Most landlords and agents will insist on a UK-based guarantor to cover rent and any damages or liabilities before they will rent to you.
If you do not have a suitable guarantor, they may ask you to pay your rent 6-12 months in advance.
The UCA Rent Guarantor Service in association with Housing Hand will help UK, EU and Overseas students, provide a qualifying UK Guarantor when renting in the private sector.
Who the service is for
Housing Hand will stand as a guarantor if you are unable to provide one.
All UCA students are welcome to apply, whether from the UK, Europe or Overseas and regardless of nationality.
It is open to new students who haven’t yet enrolled at UCA.
Guarantor fee
Housing Hand will charge a Guarantor Fee, discounted for UCA students:
Applying
Apply for Housing Hand guarantor service .
If you have difficulty accessing the service, please contact Housing Hand directly.
It is important to let them know that you are a UCA student.
The Accommodation Team are available 9am-5pm Monday-Friday to answer any questions you have about living at UCA.
accommodation@uca.ac.uk
Wilberforce Court, UCA Epsom
Bedroom, Ian Dury House Accommodation, UCA Canterbury
Farnham Accommodation
Student Village, UCA Farnham
Bedroom, Worple Road Accommodation, UCA Epsom
Student Accommodation
Kitchen, Student Village, UCA Farnham
Exterior, Riverside Student Quarter Accommodation, Canterbury
Crossways House, UCA Epsom
Kitchen, Farnham Accommodation
Bedroom, Riverside Student Quarter Accommodation, Canterbury

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/life-at-uca:
Welcome to our community of creatives: a place to live, learn and make together.
When you come to UCA, you’ll find more than just a place to study.
You’ll find a community where you can belong and grow alongside people who share your creative passions and drive.
Life here is all about creating, collaborating, and sharing unforgettable experiences.
It’s not just about turning your ideas into reality in the studio or pushing boundaries.
UCA is also a place where you'll make lifelong friendships and find new interests through student clubs and societies.
You might even take your creativity abroad with opportunities to study in a different country for a term (or even a full year!).
Whether you're experimenting with your craft, preparing for a career in the creative industries, or simply enjoying everything student life has to offer, UCA is where your journey truly begins and where your creative future can start to take shape.
At the start of every academic year the UCA Students' Union (UCASU) host a Freshers' Fair at our Canterbury, Epsom and Farnham campuses.
The Fairs are a great opportunity to find out about student-run clubs and societies and learn about technical facilities at UCA.
It's also your chance to grab a bag full of freebies from local businesses.
Discover UCA student life for yourself:
Sophie and Mari were two of the students who spent a month in Seoul, learning new things, making new friends, and experiencing the fascinating culture and history of South Korean life.
Classes ran from Monday to Thursdays...
After my afternoon class had finished, I would go and do my homework in a café on campus.
If I did not have homework that day, my friends and I would head out into Seoul.
We'd either eat dinner out or cook back at our accommodation.
Hanyang University is one of many study abroad options.
UCA students can spend a semester or full year at a partner uni around the glove, or spend a summer in America, South Korea, Spain or Italy.
On the days when I did not have classes, my friends and I would explore Seoul, visit the palaces and temples, doing shopping and even going on weekend trips to visit some of the other cities in Korea.
It was so interesting to learn about the culture...
I was surprised how much my confidence grew throughout the trip through the fact I was so open to experiencing new things, so much so that by the end I felt confident to travel round the city on my own!
There’s nothing better than visiting somewhere new but being able to fully immerse yourself in the place as well as speak and learn from those who live there - I will remember it forever
Behind the scenes with Photography alum, Avi.
With on-campus halls in Canterbury, Epsom and Farnham, and support for finding private accommodation, you'll feel at home from day one.
View Accommodation Options
Watch Fine Art graduate, Oluwafemi, as he paints a mural on our Farnham campus
Our campuses are packed with everything you need to support your creativity — from spacious studios and traditional craft workshops to cutting-edge, industry-standard technology.
Launch the Virtual Tour View Facilities
UCA Cheerleading Club win at Legacy
UCA Students’ Union (UCASU) is here to represent you and make sure you have positive and memorable student experience.
About the UCASU UCASU Clubs
Everyone is welcome at UCA and we have a variety of accessibility information along with university safeguarding and security schemes.
Campus accessibility
Equality & diversity
Safety & security
Maidstone TV Studios tour
UCA is spread across multiple towns and cities across the south east of England.
Select the course you're interested in from our campus checker to learn more about where you'll be studying:
Studying in Canterbury means more than just access to excellent creative facilities.
You'll be studying in one of the UK’s most historic and picturesque cities.
Step off of the UCA campus and you’re in the heart of Canterbury, a beautiful city packed with personality.
While known for its stunning architecture and UNESCO-listed cathedral, it’s also a vibrant student city.
There's countless independent cafes, vintage shops, galleries, pubs and restaurants for you to explore either during your free time or whilst searching for creative inspiration.
The city also hosts regular events throughout the year that students may want to get involved with, such as Canterbury Arts Festival and Pride Canterbury.
If you love culture, you’ll find plenty to dive into.
Theatre lovers will enjoy the packed calendar of events at Marlowe Theatre, Malthouse Theatre and the many other venues around the city.
If you're looking for green space head towards the River Stour, which runs right through the city, with riverside walks, nearby parks and spots for a quiet study break.
Getting around is easy, too with most essentials such as supermarkets, gyms and shops just a short walk from campus.
There’s also a strong bus network and two train stations that can take you directly into London, making weekend trips or visits home convenient.
Studying at UCA Epsom means immersing yourself in a campus dedicated to fashion and business in a town that offers the perfect balance of calm surroundings and easy access to one of the world’s fashion and business capitals.
Step out of our studios and you'll find the town of Epsom to be a relaxed and welcoming place to live.
The town centre is just a few minutes walk away and has everything you need for student life including supermarkets, cafés, gyms, restaurants and high-street shops.
The town also offers green spaces like Epsom Downs for when you need a break from the screen or sewing machine — ideal for walks, running, or simply taking time out to recharge.
Our location in Epsom is a major advantage for fashion and business students.
Regular train services take you into central London in under 40 minutes, putting you within easy reach of major fashion houses, agencies, exhibitions and business hubs.
Whether you're heading to an internship, exploring the V&A, or attending a fashion week event, the capital is right on your doorstep.
Farnham is a historic market town that loves to celebrate creativity.
The area's heritage and natural beauty can inspire any creator.
From the Farnham Maltings — a cultural centre hosting theatre, film screenings and exhibitions — to its status as England’s first World Craft Town, this community is deeply connected to the arts.
Just around the corner from the UCA campus you’ll find numerous independent shops, galleries, cafés and craft markets.
The town is compact and student-friendly, with everything you need within easy reach, such as supermarkets and gyms.
Green spaces like Farnham Park, Gostrey Meadow, Farnham Castle and UCA's Sculpture Garden are perfect places to relax between lectures or a quiet spot to sketch, film or rehearse.
You’ll also benefit from excellent transport links.
Farnham has direct trains to London in just over an hour, making it easy to attend exhibitions, performances or connect with industry contacts in the capital.
Buses and rail links also connect you to nearby towns such as Guildford and Winchester, expanding your cultural and creative reach.
Studying in Maidstone gives you the opportunity to learn in a specialist creative environment, while enjoying the flexibility of living either in Canterbury’s on-campus halls or in private accommodation in Maidstone itself.
Many students choose to stay in our on-campus halls in Canterbury and take advantage of the our shuttle service to and from the Maidstone TV Studios campus.
It’s a convenient option that lets you enjoy the vibrant student life and facilities of Canterbury, while studying at one of the UK’s leading commercial production studios.
Maidstone is a lively riverside town with plenty of amenities and entertainment.
You’ll find shops, restaurants, gyms, cafés and cinemas, as well as peaceful green spaces like Mote Park when you need a break from the screen or stage.
Being based at the Maidstone TV Studios also means you’re studying in a working broadcast environment, giving you insight into the industry and access to cutting-edge production spaces.
Maidstone is well connected, with direct trains to London in under an hour, plus easy links to Canterbury and other surrounding towns.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/careers-and-professional-practice:
Wherever you are on your creative journey we’re here to help you take the next step.
Our mission is to prepare and develop you for future employment, further study and to build a sustainable creative life.
We’ll be here throughout your studies, offering support, workshops, competitions and events to support your professional journey.
You’ll work alongside practising artists and industry leaders when you study with us, and our Careers Advisors will help you to set out on a career that is just right for you.
Our Advisors will share their in-depth knowledge and experience of the creative sectors, they'll show you how to make the most of your industry contacts and they'll be there for you when you take that leap into industry.
And even after you’ve graduated you can still access our online resources, live events, and bookable one-to-one sessions to help you plan your next move.
Our dedicated one-to-one appointments are with experienced Careers Advisors.
Students can book a session to find out more about further study, working abroad and how to kickstart a job search.
To book an appointment please sign up on our Creative Futures platform (use your personal email to ensure you can access the portal after graduating) and click on the appointments tab.
We work closely with course teams to deliver workshops, lectures, placements and seminars as part of your course.
Featuring sessions with industry experts and panel discussions with Graduates who have made a name in their chosen creative fields, our careers events provide in-depth understanding of the creative industries.
Head to the UCA Creative Futures platform to browse the latest events.
Our Creative Futures careers platform is where our students find out about work experience positions, paid job vacancies, and information about working in the creative sector.
UCA’s Creative Futures platform supports your career and personal development, while you’re at UCA and even after you graduate.
You can use it to:
Launch Creative Futures online
Building industry experience is as important as your education.
These are some of the opportunities we offer to help you do that:
Many of our course give you the opportunity to complete an industry placement, aligned with your interests and aspirations.
The team can support you in finding and applying to available opportunities.
Many of our undergraduate degrees offer the option of a Professional Practice Year - a study break between years 2 and 3 to undertake a placement related to your studies.
While you study, you’ll take part in live industry briefs or competitions, working with leading companies and brands to collaborate on designs, creative briefs and proposals.
These opportunities will give you a taste of the industry you aim to work in, and help you make crucial professional connections.
Whether freelancing, establishing their own businesses or working with some of the world’s most recognisable companies, our graduates enjoy exciting careers across the creative industries.
Here are just some of the big names that UCA graduates have gone on to work for:
UCA students can book a careers appointment by logging onto our Creative Futures careers platform.
Or please contact the Gateway at your UCA campus for assistance or drop an email to careers@uca.ac.uk .
We’re keen to work with employers and industry experts to share best practice and create unique and inspiring opportunities for our students and graduates.
If you’re interested in collaborating with us please email careers@uca.ac.uk .
Our access and participation plan sets out what we are doing to improve equality of opportunity for under-represented groups to access and succeed in higher education.
Are you an employer seeking bright new talent to join your team for a fixed term, permanent role, or internship?
Our crop of bright young creatives could be a perfect fit.
Info for Employers

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/student-services/students-with-disabilities-splds:
The entire university experience – applying, starting, and studying – can be intimidating with plenty of hoops to jump through along the way.
But for some disabled students or those with a specific learning difference, such as autism, dyslexia, dyspraxia or ADHD, the process can seem daunting.
Our Disability and Specific Learning Differences (SpLD) team are there to support you through this process.
We have a Disability & SpLD team at each of our three main campuses and provide services and visits by arrangement to our satellite campus location at Maidstone TV Studios.
No student, irrespective of their needs, will be disadvantaged should they wish to study at UCA.
We will work collaboratively with our students in mind to proactively design a service that helps disabled or neurodiverse students to overcome or reduce barriers to learning and to work towards more independent learning strategies, coping strategies and positive approaches to managing stress and anxiety.
By letting us know your needs in a timely manner, we will be there for you all the way, from your Open Day, right through your dissertation/final year project to graduation.
Each of our campuses has a designated Disability & SpLD team, who can offer advice and guidance on:
If you have a disability, medical condition or dyslexia/neurodivergence, you can tell us at any time – in your application through UCAS, after you’ve accepted an offer, once you’ve enrolled, or during your course.
However, the sooner you tell us the better we will be prepared to support you at the start of your course.
We understand you might not feel comfortable sharing this information, but please don’t worry.
You can decide how the information is used and what is shared with other services including your academic team.
We’re here to help, and you can talk to us in confidence.
Our aim is simply to make sure your UCA experience is as good as it can be, and that you feel supported through your studies.
You can email us at disability@uca.ac.uk , call us on the relevant number at the bottom of the page depending on the Campus you are based, or if you’re already on campus, ask for the disability team via the Gateway desk in your campus library.
We have a team of experienced and trained support staff who can work with you to understand your requirements and what you might need.
Here's what the Dyslexia and Learning Support team can do for you:
In many cases, UK students applying for higher education courses may be able to apply for the Disabled Students Allowance (DSA).
DSA support covers:
DSA does not depend on household income and doesn’t need to be repaid.
When you go to university, your Educational Health & Care (EHC) plan stops.
This does not mean you stop getting support.
It means you will get support through Disabled Student Allowance and or your local social care team for personal care support.
Please read our Guidance on Personal Care Support for more information.
We ask that you share your up-to-date Education Health and Care Plan (EHCP) with the disabilities team so we can learn more about your needs.
You can contact the social care team by phone or online and ask for a needs assessment if you require support with personal care.
The NHS have a step-by-step guide on how apply for a needs assessment .
It is important that you have any personal care support in place before you start at your university.
The University does not provide support or funding for personal care or medical treatment (including medication, medical supplies or mobility equipment) because you would need these things even if you were not a student.
Please register with a GP near your campus as soon as possible.
Please seek advice in your home country on what support you might be entitled to.
Please read UCA’s International Student Support Service Statement for further information.
You could also consider what other funding may be available through grant giving trusts and charities.
Further information can be provided by our Campus Life team .
Further information on fees, funding and support for international students can be found on the UKCISA website .
We’ve put together information on accessible facilities, assistive technology, and support schemes to help you understand what’s available at UCA.
UCA accessibility guide
Universities do not use the term ‘Special Educational Needs’ as this is specific to schools and colleges.
Instead, universities use the word ‘disability’.
This may feel unfamiliar, but the term ‘disability’ is broad and considers any physical, mental or sensory impairment which has a significant impact on daily life, and which is long term (ie.
lasts more than 12 months).
For a student, daily activities might include taking notes, writing, researching, reading large amounts of text and moving between multiple locations.
This includes people who:
If any of these apply to you, you are likely to be eligible for support and adjustments to your learning, teaching and assessment.
Although it might feel difficult or unfamiliar to use the term ‘disability’ or ‘disabled’ for the first time, remember that disability is about the barriers created by society, not about your worth, ability or intellect.
Identifying as disabled gives you protection under the Equality Act 2010 and enables you to access support and adjustments.
The name given to the service or team that supports disabled students varies depending on the university, but most will contain the word ‘disability’, ‘wellbeing’ or ‘support’ in their title.
Use a search engine to search for the name of the university plus the word ‘disability’ or contact the Campus Life team at the university to ask for details.
Students access our Disability & SpLD team via our Campus Life team.
The equivalent of a SENDCo at university is usually someone who works in Disability Services or Student Support Services.
Their title can vary, but will usually contain the word ‘disability’, ‘wellbeing’ or ‘inclusion’, and ‘advisor’ or ‘adviser’, ‘coordinator’ or ‘officer’.
Our Disability Team is made up of a Disability Services Manager and Learning Support Managers, Inclusion Mentors, Inclusion Advisers and Dyslexia Advisers at each campus.
The equivalent of an EHCP or Statement at university is called different things at different universities.
Most universities will have some method of sharing information about support and adjustments with other colleagues, often with the word ‘support’, ‘reasonable adjustments’ or ‘plan’ in the title.
If you apply for Disabled Students Allowance (DSA) you will have a Needs Assessment Report as part of the application process.
If you have an EHCP, we will discuss this with you and work with you to set up the support you require.
At UCA, you will complete an Individual Learning Plan with your Learning Support Manager.
This plan can cover a range of reasonable adjustments for your access and learning needs and is communicated to key staff who need to know about them.
Our mission is to encourage an inclusive environment that enables our students to develop their skills, knowledge and strategies to manage their own learning and to achieve their full potential through:
If you are accessing support, you will be issued with an Individual Learning Plan (ILP) which details your entitlements and support.
This document is specific to you and is intended to provide the information you will need to manage your own learning.
If you have one to one support this will also be detailed in your ILP including what this support entails and how it works.
It also provides the opportunity to discuss and understand the boundaries of support, ie.
what the support staff can do, what they cannot do and what you should do if you are not happy with the support or have any concerns.
You will be expected to take responsibility for your own studies and any support.
You will need to utilise the resources of your academic course and your agreed learning support effectively.
Reviews of your learning support will be available during the year at any point; however, you should raise any questions or concerns about your support with the Learning Support Manager or Dyslexia Adviser at the earliest possible opportunity.
Learning Support Managers and Dyslexia Advisers are responsible for on-course support only.
We can offer some referral information about personal care support but we cannot offer advice or make arrangements for this type of care.
Our support is not a substitute for the teaching of your course’s academic team or self-managed study.
Our support is to help you to access the learning opportunities at UCA.
We assist you in developing skills and strategies specific to your individual needs so that you can work to your full potential.
You will be responsible for engaging with the Learning Support Manager/Dyslexia Adviser to facilitate and maintain all of your support needs.
Please refer to the Academic Services Confidentiality Statement .
If you have any concerns about the service, we encourage you to speak to the Learning Support Manager.
If you would like to make a formal complaint, please refer to UCA’s complaints procedure.
Personal care support refers to practical help and assistance you require in daily life, regardless of whether you are a student, and covers non-study related activities or tasks such as:
You will be responsible for arranging your own personal care support while at university.
Please contact the Disability & SpLD Service as soon as possible so we can find out more about what support you might need while studying
The Disability & SpLD team will work with you to understand your requirements and what you might need to support your learning.
This could include accessibility and on-course reasonable adjustments, external specialist support and access to specialist equipment and resources.
Travel costs to receive medical treatment are also your responsibility.
Registering with a GP near your campus is also your responsibility and is essential.
You will be provided with information about how to go about this.
If you do not make arrangements to put an independent living/personal care package in place before you join the University, we will not be able to put it in place for you.
UCA will support you to defer your course until the care package is in place; this means that you can fully enjoy and participate in your student experience.
The University is keen to establish and build effective working relationships with external NMH suppliers to ensure and monitor the quality of support provided to our students.
This guidance outlines key information NMH providers need to be aware of when working with UCA students.
As an external non-medical help provider you will need to:
Students will continue to be able to choose to have NMH sessions remotely if they wish without the need for any prior authorisation by SLC.
All NMH providers should be able to provide remote or face to face NMH sessions, or a mixture of the two, as the student chooses.
This means that NMH providers should ensure that for every student they take on, they are able to provide face to face as well as remote support should the student wish.
Where a student’s DSA2 recommends an external provider to provide NMHsupport in lectures or studio work (such as BSL interpretation, notetaking support, practical assistance) an individual risk assessment, including induction will be required and undertaken by the relevant campus Disability & SpLD service.
NMH providers are responsible for arranging suitable meeting space to work with students.
We expect that this space is agreeable to the student and meets their access needs.
The Disability & SpLD Service has a limited number of bookable private one-to-one spaces available on campus.
We are unable to guarantee access to a bookable space to external NMH providers.
However, we will always consider booking requests on a case-by-case basis.
Please contact the Learning Support Manager at disability@uca.ac.uk if you need to discuss anything about the student’s welfare, progress, or any other general concerns.
When emailing the Learning Support Manager about a particular student, please ensure you include the student’s name, their ID number and the type of support being provided.
COVID-19 restrictions were lifted on Friday 1 April 2022, however, to protect colleagues and students, please continue to stay away from our campuses if you have COVID-19 for a minimum of 5 days or until you feel better.
Hand sanitising stations remain in place, so please use these and continue to follow good hygiene measures.
You will need to familiarise yourself with emergency procedures for the building (as displayed on building fire notices).
In the event of hearing the emergency evacuation alarm, you must leave the building as directed and assemble at one of the designated Fire Points.
It is your responsibility to let us know if you require a Personal Emergency Evacuation Plan (PEEP) to be put in place.
Any accidents or emergencies need to be reported to Reception.
Please report any incidents or near misses to the Campus Life team.
Only enter areas that you're required to as part of your support work or are instructed to do so by a member of staff.
The University for the Creative Arts aims to provide all students with an accessible learning experience to enable you to study independently.
As an International and EU student studying in the UK, you are not able to access UK government funding if you require additional support in relation to your disability.
However, under the terms of the Equality Act, the University has a duty of care to provide anticipatory and reasonable adjustments, aids and services that will support you during your studies.
In the UK, under the Equality Act 2010, a disabled person is defined as someone who has a physical or mental impairment which has a substantial and long-term adverse effect on his, her or their ability to carry out normal day-to-day activities.
The term covers a broad range of conditions, illnesses and impairments and includes the following:
This list is not exhaustive.
If you think you may have a disability or specific learning difference, you should contact one of our Learning Support Managers before you start your studies with us.
This will help to ensure that your needs are fully understood and where necessary, any support required can be planned before you arrive.
There are limitations on the support we can offer to students, and you may be required to obtain funding for some or all of your support from your sponsor/parents, your home country government or charitable organisations.
Further information is available on the definition of disability on the GOV.UK website .
The support you may receive is based on your disability and your requirements and may include the following (as well as other support services not listed):
You will need medical evidence to qualify for specialist support if your needs relate to a disability or long-term health condition.
Your evidence needs to be translated into English by an official source before your arrival in the UK.
If you have dyslexia or any other specific learning difference, we will need diagnostic evidence that was conducted after your 16th birthday.
We can help you to obtain evidence once you are in the UK by:
You are required to cover the cost of any diagnostic appointments and engage with the terms and conditions of the diagnostic service.
You are responsible for arranging and paying for a certified translation of any evidence and diagnostic report you already have in place, should this be required as evidence.
Our specialist team will work with you to understand your requirements and what you might need to support your learning based on the evidence you have provided.
You will have an Individual Learning Plan (ILP) which outlines the on-course reasonable adjustments and specialist support provided to you.
This could include:
If you require your own practical support, we can assist you to source a support worker, but you would need to be able to cover the cost of this personally.
We would encourage you to have this in place before you start your course.
The following services will require you to provide your own source of funding:
Equipment - for example, wheelchairs, computers, and brailling equipment
As an overseas/EU student studying in the UK for six months or more, you will need to pay for UK healthcare as part of your immigration application; this is called immigration health surcharge and is in addition to the visa application fee.
The immigration health surcharge allows you access to UK healthcare at no additional cost.
You will still need to pay for certain types of services such as prescriptions, dental treatment, eye tests and assisted conception.
You should register with a local doctor’s surgery (also known as general practitioner or GP) as soon as you can.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/mature-students:
UCA has a long tradition of welcoming students of all ages to our campuses.
Whether you’re looking to retrain for a new creative career, are returning to education to boost your knowledge and skillset, or want to turn a hobby into something more, a creative qualification can help.
This page gives the answers to some of the questions we are most often asked by our adult learners, to help you make an informed decision on what pathway you wish to take.
If you have any further questions, please contact Andy Malone , Academic Schools Liaison Lead.
We offer the following entry levels to our courses.
You can find out more on our dedicated levels of study page .
As you’ll be joining us at a different life stage, we know your qualifications might look a bit different to 18 and 19 year-olds’.
There’s no need to worry about this.
With all our students, we look for more than just grades when considering applications.
When you apply, just tell us what qualifications you have and clearly outline any past experiences that support your application.
The Course Team will then be able to decide whether they can offer a place.
If you’re still a little short on what’s required, they will look at offering you integrated foundation or pre-masters pathways that can get you where you need to be.
If you have any questions, you can email us at admissions@uca.ac.uk
Tuition fees vary depending on what level of study you are undertaking, and whether you are a UK or international student.
We can help you through the process of planning your finances.
You can find out all about fees and finance – and information on our range of scholarships – on our dedicated page.
If you’re a mature student, your university experience will likely be quite different to those who are coming to university fresh from school and living away from home for the first time.
We understand you may have a range of other commitments that may mean you need more flexibility or support.
You can find out more about what’s on offer on our campuses on our Student Services page.
Join us on Wednesday 28 February 2024 for an engaging online webinar that provides you with the latest insights, expert knowledge, and a unique opportunity to interact directly with our panel of experts!

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/parents-guide:
Setting sail for university life is a big step, and not just for our students.
If you're a parent or guardian, you probably have a few questions about what life and studying at UCA is like.
We're a close-knit community and the welfare of our students is as important to us as nurturing talent, academic attainment and gaining the skills and networks to be able to successfully carve out a career in the creative industries.
We've pulled together some resources that will hopefully answer your questions and help you to support your loved ones as they embark on university life.
If you haven't found the answers you're looking for here, please get in touch.
We're happy to answer your questions.
Email enquiries@uca.ac.uk or fill in our web form .

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/student-services:
You're never alone at UCA.
Whether it's help settling in, assistance with your studies, advice on your finances, or supporting your wellbeing, our Campus Life team are here to support you.
This page highlights the support that we can offer you.
You'll also find links to our specialist support services, details on events we have coming up, and  our contact details so you can easily get in touch.
There are a number of ways our Campus Life teams can help you during your time at UCA.
Our Campus Life Hubs are your first go-to for anything related to your student experience at UCA.
We offer a range of services and advice related to your academic studies and general support advice, and can support you to access more specialist support when needed.
Contact the Campus Life team
UCA has Learning Development Tutors to assist you with your studies - from time management and presenting skills to improving your writing and critical thinking skills - and Liaison Librarians, who are on hand to help you get the best from your library.
We have a team of Campus Life Officers who can help you with a range of personal and financial issues.
All discussions are confidential and could include helping you with budgeting or sorting your student finance, or helping you with employment issues.
Our Wellbeing team offers a confidential and non-judgmental space for you to discuss anything that's bothering you.
We support students through a wide variety of concerns, such as anxiety, low mood, sleep problems, managing stress, grief, loss, anger, and isolation.
Whatever you're going through, we're here to listen.
In addition to our trained wellbeing staff, we have a number of tools to help you with your wellbeing.
You can access Spectrum.Life, our 24/7 confidential and in-the-moment student support service.
Your call will be answered by a qualified counsellor.
Access this service directly via:
The SpectrumLife app can also be downloaded, which includes:
Togetherall is a free, 24/7 online mental health support service available to all UCA students.
It offers a completely anonymous space where you can express yourself openly, connect with others, and access helpful resources at any time.
The platform is monitored by professionally trained Wall Guides who ensure the community remains safe, supportive, and respectful for everyone.
UCA provides free, confidential counselling to all currently registered students across our Surrey and Kent campuses.
Our service offers a safe space to discuss any difficult thoughts or feelings you may be experiencing, with the support of our fully trained,  professionally qualified and experienced counsellors.
At UCA, we want everyone in our community to feel respected, included and supported.
That’s why we have Report+Support, an online platform for students, staff and visitors to report discrimination, misconduct, harassment, or assault against themselves or others.
You can tell us what happened, or submit an anonymous or attributed report, and access a range of support services and resources.
We’ll deal with all reports - no matter how small - sensitively, honestly, and professionally.
Visit UCA’s Report + Support site
At UCA, we welcome people from around the world, who bring with them their incredible talent, together with their faiths, beliefs and cultural practices that enrich our university and student dynamic.
It's crucial to us that students from all denominations - home and international - feel at home, welcome and have a place to practice their faiths, too.
You can find out more about what each of our campuses has to offer, on our dedicated Faith and Religion page.
We offer specialist support services to help our international students, those who are young carers or are care leavers and to our students who have disabilities, medical conditions and specific learning differences.
Find us in the Library
Find us near Reception
Find us in R31A off the spinal corridor
Don’t be afraid to ask for help — the support is there for you to get the most from your studies.
It might be the very specific kind that I got, or more general, like the guidance you can get from Student Services, which is amazing.
Katie Karcheski, BA (Hons) Fine Art, UCA Farnham.
Read our latest blogs on about the support available to you as a UCA student.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/research:
At UCA, we're proud to say that research is one of our biggest strengths.
Our vibrant community is home to seven world-leading research centres that span creative disciplines from crafts to design to animation.
Meanwhile, our research degrees give graduates an unparalleled opportunity to work alongside renowned creative experts, combining theoretical study and creative practice in an environment that offers industry-grade creative facilities .
Research Degrees
Research Projects
Research Centres
Innovation Hub
REF 2021 Research Excellence Framework
Research Facilities
Head to the UCA Research Online platform to browse all UCA research outputs.
Go to UCARO

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/research/research-centres:
Animation Research Centre
Audio Research Cluster
Centre for Sustainable Design
Cluster for Cinema, Affect & Place
Cluster for Ontologies, Ecologies & Ethics
Conflict and the Creative Arts
Crafts Study Centre
Fast Forward
UCA Innovation Hub
Check out our range of research case studies or head to our UCA Research Online (UCARO) platform to browse all UCA research outputs.
Projects & Case Studies Go To UCARO

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/innovation:
The Innovation HUB (UCAiHUB) drives Knowledge Exchange (KE) initiatives for UCA within an inclusive environment that inspires our students, graduates, and staff to bring a step change to the arts, technologies, and business for the creative industries.
Our overarching goal is to bring academia together through communities, organisations and businesses to exchange ideas and expertise.
The UCAiHUB facilitates collaborative KE initiatives in the following ways:
Explore our collaborations
Visit the funding page
Our KE programme includes collaborations within the creative industries, focusing on three key areas that are already making a global impact:
CreaTech Surrey Cluster Report
PixelRise Games Industry Cluster
Civic Agreement for Surrey
Creative Corridor Surrey
Socio Economic Impact of Craft Within Farnham
A collective voice for local creative industry businesses, development agencies and regional local authorities.
Our Innovation Team works with businesses, public sector, and voluntary organisations around the world to drive creative innovation and create tangible impact.
Learn more about UCA's Innovation Hub via email: innovation@uca.ac.uk
University for the Creative Arts, AHRC Impact Acceleration Account (IAA)

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/research/ref:
The Research Excellence Framework (REF) is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK universities.
The REF is undertaken by the four UK higher education funding bodies: Research England , the Scottish Funding Council (SFC), the Higher Education Funding Council for Wales (HEFCW), and the Department for the Economy, Northern Ireland (DfE).
The funding bodies aim to secure the continuation of a world-class, dynamic and responsive research base across the full academic spectrum within UK higher education.
In REF 2021 UCA achieved some fantastic scores.
UCA is the UK's top specialist art and design University for world-leading research outputs.
250 research outputs were shortlisted for this REF submission.
O f the 115 selected, 63 are practice - based projects that were exhibited in 89 different galleries , museums and venues across 26 different countries.
This demonstrates UCA’s international influence on research in culture and creativity , resulting in economic, social, and cultural impact stem ming from a dynamic research environment .
The most recent round of assessment found UCA to be an impressive environment for creative arts research.
Of our research activity was recognised for its quality internationally (4*, 3* or 2*).
Of our research was classed as world-leading (4*) and internationally excellent (3*) for its originality, significance and rigour.
115 outputs from 72 researchers were submitted.
They included exhibitions, sculptures, ceramics, photographic collections, films, essays, books and reports
Our creatives conduct theory-based and applied research into art, design, and the built environment, pushing the impact of creative thinking and practice into new areas.
It cuts across the areas of film, fine art, photography, crafts, fashion and architectural design.
UCA's creative-based projects, submitted for REF2021 , were exhibited in 89 different galleries, museums, and venues across 26 different countries, demonstrating UCA's international influence on research in culture and creativity.
All the research outputs submitted by UCA in REF 2021, including written outputs (books, chapters and journal papers) as well as practice outputs, are listed in the REF2021 Catalogue.
Download the Catalogue
UCA demonstrated the continuing impact of its international research centres in four Impact Case Studies
Addressing the global under-representation and disadvantage of Women in Photography
Changing the approach of policy-makers and influencing standards
Developing the Local Economy and Changing Museum and Gallery Exhibition Practices
Developing new creative practices and approaches in Textiles

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/research/research-facilities:
The wealth of resources and facilities you'll find at UCA really set us apart as a base for exciting creative research.
Discover how our facilities and resources could support your work, with information about our library services, on-site archives and special collections, making facilities for practice-based projects, and other research support events and resources.
With more than 280,000 print and e-books and exhibition catalogues, 500m of archival material and a wide range of broadcast materials, our libraries hold a wealth of incredible information that will enhance your studies, and offer extensive specialist services for our research community.
Learn more...
With particular strengths in arts activism, animation and photography, our Archives and Special Collections are home to rare and unique artefacts and resources, which you can access by appointment.
If you're developing a creative research project with a practice-based element, UCA's extensive creative studios and workshops make our campuses ideal bases for your work.
Open Access means making research outputs freely available online so anyone can read, access, download, and use the research.
The video below outlines the reasons for open access.
Read our Open Access guidance
Our podcast collaborations offer insight into the world-changing research undertaken by the University for the Creative Arts researchers.
Listen to our Podcasts...
A collection of research folios represents some of the practice research projects developed by academic staff at UCA and submitted to REF 2021 .
The folios present a rich and diverse range of approaches to practice research across diverse areas of creative practice, including art, performance, architecture, crafts, film, textiles and photography.
The folios can be downloaded, providing details of each project, including the research context, research methods and processes, outcomes and dissemination.
Download the Practice-Based portfolios
From developing your project proposal to enhancing your career, our online resources for researchers can help you get where you want to be.
Funding your research
Researcher development
Research events
Governance and ethics
Public research seminars
Research Services
Thinking of doing a PhD?
If you're ready to begin your research journey, find out more about our offer for research students.
View our Research Degress

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/events/research:
Want to find out about previous research events at UCA?
View all past events

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/research/research-podcasts:
From histories of architecture and the built environment to promote and engage with women in photography across the globe.
Learn more about our Research and Innovation and watch our webinar videos .
We engage the public through participatory and collaborative research with communities , as well as events .
The Architecture and… (by The Society of Architectural Historians of Great Britain) is hosted by Dr Jessica Kelly, Senior Lecturer Contextual and Theoretical Studies and Research Degrees Leader.
In this series, called Architecture and… she speaks to a number of academics, architects, writers and thinkers to discuss space, buildings and cities, to think through contemporary debates and issues.
Listen on Spotify
In Classed Acts Dr Sarah Scarsbrook and Dr Dani Child talk with invited guests about life as a creative/educator coming from working class origins.
Over six episodes the following themes are discussed: working class identities and being classed; intersections of class with race, gender, age, neuro-divergence, and queerness; geographies of class, language barriers, and accent bias; (not) fitting in and (not) feeling at home; and rewriting the stories to include working class joy and positivity.
The podcast was made possible by receipt of EDI funding for Early Careers Researchers from UCA.
Professor Anna Fox, Professor of Photography and Maria Kapajeva introduce the project Fast Forward: Women in Photography looking at how the project started in 2014 and how it has developed since then.
This project is featured in the Research Excellence Framework 2021, read how Fast Forward changed attitudes and experiences for women in photography.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/research/governance-ethics:
At UCA, we know how important it is that research is conducted ethically and to the highest standards of rigour and integrity That's why we are committed to supporting good practice in all our research and scholarly activity.
This page contains more information about our five commitments to supporting research integrity, how we put these into practice.
You'll also find links to our research ethics and useful links.
To support the highest standards of integrity in our research, we have made five commitments to:
We provide expert advice on research ethics for students and staff.
If you are a UCA researcher, you can find comprehensive guidance on whether your research will require ethical approval and more on the MyUCA Research Ethics Page .
UCA documents on governance and ethics:
If you have any questions about our governance and ethics within our research, please contact roffice@uca.ac.uk .
If you would like to speak to someone about our Code of Practice for the Investigation of Research Misconduct, please contact Sam Weir at sweir@uca.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/research/meet-the-team:
If you are already conducting research work at UCA or are considering joining us, our staff and research team are here to help you.
For a full overview of the Research and Innovation Services (RIs) at UCA, visit the Staff Portal page .
The RIs implement the University’s strategies and policies on Research and Knowledge Exchange under the direction of the University's Research and Innovation Committee .
Our function is to support the University's research staff in conducting research in accordance with national regulatory frameworks and funding bodies.
Our key priorities are to:
Download our Service Presentation documen t
Contact the Staff Research team at roffice@uca.ac.uk .
Research Degrees are managed by the Doctoral College.
For further information contact the Research Degrees team at researchdegrees@uca.ac.uk .
Browse the profiles of UCA academics working across creative and cultural subjects from animation and crafts to business and sustainability.
Meet our researchers

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/research/ecrn:
UCA’s Early Career Researcher (ECR) Network is an inclusive and supportive forum where ECRs can connect, collaborate, and share knowledge.
Designed to help support to those our Early Career Researchers in the beginning stages of their career, our community offers unique opportunities for researchers to develop their skills, providing them with additional opportunities and experiences that will enhance their careers.
The Early Career Researcher Network is an informal group set up as part of UCA’s commitment to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers.
Membership is voluntary and includes all academic staff of the University who are within 8 years of their PhD award or 6 years of their first academic contract, not including any time taken out for family care, health or covid related reasons.
We hold three meetings of the ECR Network across the academic year, as well as monthly virtual Coffee Mornings for more informal discussions.
Members of the ECR Network select a Convenor from among their number to serve for a two-year term.
The current Convenor is Ezinma Mbeledogu .
UCA’s Early Career Researchers held their inaugural Away Day in London on 2 February.
Guest speaker Professor Dave O’Brien (University of Manchester) kicked off the morning at Senate House in Bloomsbury, with a stimulating talk with examples from his ground-breaking work on how research fits within a strategy (government/funding), wider contexts, and gaps in knowledge as well as the processes involved in between policy and research, and a range of funding opportunities.
After this, the Early Career Researchers  had the opportunity to pose a range of questions to a panel made of UCA Professors and Readers on topics including how to carve out time for research, biggest research successes and failures, and how to form successful collaborations.
Lastly, there was a lively immersive workshop delivered by Vitae on Engagement and Impact in Research.
The event was made possible by funding from the Research Office, and many thanks go to the organising team: Dr Rachael Johnson, Dr Caroline Molloy, Dr Loucia Manopoulou, Dr James Armstrong, and ECR Network Representative Dr Sarah Scarsbrook.
To join the ECR Network, please contact Rachael Johnson .
The ECR Network held their inaugural conference ‘Celebrating Research Excellence at UCA’ on the 20 June 2024 at UCA Farnham.
Featuring artwork showcases, research papers, and lightning talks, this in-person event showcased the amazing projects being conducted by UCA’s ECRs.
A range of staff and research students joined in the opportunity to network, share ideas, and collaborate with fellow researchers in a creative and inspiring environment.
If you would like to join the network, or for more information, please contact rachael.johnson@uca.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/campuses:
Welcome to our world.
Here you can explore UCA's UK campuses across Surrey and Kent, discover the specialist facilities that make them unique and book a place to explore in person at an Open Day.
Whether you choose UCA Canterbury , UCA Epsom , UCA Farnham or Maidstone TV Studios there's a place for you to develop your skills and knowledge, connect with like-minded people and begin your journey toward a creative career.
To make sure that you have everything you need to forge ahead with your creative ideas and ambitions, we've created each of our campuses with a few specialist focuses in mind.
Wherever your course is based, your campus will have the professional-grade facilities you need to take your talent further and be home to expert academics with the right knowledge and skills to support you in your studies.
And with each campus located in a beautiful city or town close to the bright lights of London, you'll get to enjoy both inspiring surroundings and industry connections.
UCA Canterbury, New Dover Road, Canterbury, CT1 3AN
UCA Epsom, Ashley Road, Epsom, KT18 5BE
UCA Farnham, Falkner Road, Farnham, Surrey, GU9 7DS
Want to see our campuses from the comfort of your home?
Our Virtual Tour will get you right where you need to be.
Facilities
Libraries
Galleries
The Institute of Creativity and Innovation was established in 2019 in a partnership between Xiamen University, China, and the University for the Creative Arts, UK.
Learn more about ICI

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/campuses/canterbury:
Welcome to Canterbury
Discover which courses run at UCA Canterbury, learn more about our creative community, facilities and accommodation options, or book a place on an Open Day to see everything for yourself.
Our Canterbury campus is located on the edge of this historical and cosmopolitan city and has a special focus on architecture, spatial and computer design, fine art and visual communications.
It's home to expert staff and extensive specialist facilities – everything you need to excel in your studies.
Canterbury campus
UCA Canterbury is home to our architecture and design courses, together with Fine Art and Visual Communications.
Find out more about these subject areas using the links below.
UCA Canterbury has one on-campus hall of residence - Ian Dury House and for 2022 we are delighted to announce a new partnership with a vibrant accommodation option just 20 minutes’ walk from campus - Riverside Student Quarter.
Canterbury Halls of residence
Accommodation Overview
Applying for Halls
Private Accommodation
Accommodation FAQs
Want to see Canterbury from the comfort of your home?
UCA Canterbury is easily accessible – it's just off the M2 by road, and close to cross-Channel services and two major train stations with links to London.
It's also served by bus.
UCA Canterbury New Dover Road Canterbury Kent CT1 3AN
Get directions
Cafes and restaurants in Canterbury
Graphics Print Room, UCA Canterbury
Architecture digital media suite, UCA Canterbury
Westgate Punts
Bar, UCA Canterbury
Student in Print Workshop at UCA Canterbury
Old Neptune Pub at Whitstable coast
3D Workshop, UCA Canterbury
Turner Contemporary art gallery in Margate
Canterbury Cathedral
Fine art studio at UCA Canterbury
Canterbury high street

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/campuses/epsom:
Discover more about the wealth of courses at UCA Epsom, learn more about our creative community, facilities and accommodation options, or book a place on an Open Day to see everything for yourself.
From September 2024, we are opening The Wells, a centre for fashion education in the heart of Epsom – learn more about this new space .
Our Epsom campus is home to our Business School for the Creative Industries - the first of its kind in the UK - and also hosts our renowned and respected fashion degrees.
The campus is close to the centre of town, with its excellent range of shops, pubs and restaurants.
With on and off-site accommodation available, a fantastically-stocked library and a vibrant, modern atmosphere, this campus has everything you need to succeed.
Epsom campus
Our Business School for the Creative Industries - the first of its kind in the UK - and our respected School of Fashion and Textiles, are both based at UCA Epsom.
Our business courses prepare you to enter all areas of the creative industries - from festivals and fashion to advertising and visual communications.
And our fashion and textiles courses propel you into a range of exciting careers including fashion or textiles design, make-up artistry, editorial photography, retail management and more.
There's a range of accommodation options at UCA Epsom - with rooms both on-campus and off-campus around the town.
Or if you prefer to rent privately, we can help with that too.
Check out the links below for more information.
Epsom Halls of residence
Want to see Epsom from the comfort of your home?
UCA Epsom, Ashley Road, Epsom, Surrey, KT18 5BE
3-13 Church Street, Epsom, Surrey, KT17 4PF
Printing Studio display
Students in the Photography Studio
Kingston Riverside
Fashion Atelier Studios, The Wells
MA Fashion Design Studio, The Wells
Rainbow Leisure Centre, Epsom
Fashion Studios, UCA Epsom
Print Studios, UCA Epsom

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/campuses/farnham:
Discover which courses run at UCA Farnham, learn more about our creative community, facilities and accommodation options, or book a place on an Open Day to see everything for yourself.
Farnham was awarded World Craft Town status in 2020 and is a national hub for makers - which makes it the ideal place to pursue your creative passions.
Located on the edge of the town centre, UCA Farnham is packed with all the specialist facilities you'll need to make incredible things - from ceramics and metalwork to films and animations.
Launch the Virtual Tour
Welcome to UCA Farnham
Watch highlights from the Farnham Grad Show
Oluwafemi Babalola brings his final major project to life on the walls of our Farnham campus
Illustrator paints new mural on campus
There’s still time to join our vibrant creative community this September right here in Farnham, or at our campuses in Canterbury and Epsom.
You can apply online today or call 012 52 918 240 .
Courses in Clearing Apply Now
UCA Farnham is our biggest campus and home to an impressive range of creative undergraduate, postgraduate and research degrees.
Find out more about the subject areas we offer here.
Farnham has its own Student Village on campus and brand new accommodation blocks that opened in September 2021.
If you prefer to rent privately, there are plenty of options in the surrounding area.
UCA Farnham is easily accessible by car, and a 15-minute walk from the nearest railway station, which is on the mainline to London.
There's plenty of short and long-stay parking close to campus, too.
UCA Farnham Falkner Road Farnham Surrey GU9 7DS Get directions

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/campuses/maidstone-studios:
Maidstone TV Studios offers you the unique opportunity to study television production in the UK's largest independent TV studio facility.
In this professional environment you’ll have the chance to work on high-profile TV shows and network with leading industry professionals.
We have a dedicated technical tutor on site as well as a dedicated work-placement coordinator who can help you with work-experience opportunities.
Maidstone is a vibrant town in Kent, just over 30 miles from London and about 25 miles from our Canterbury campus.
Maidstone offers excellent shopping, museums and galleries, events throughout the year and stunning local countryside to explore.
If you love to eat out then Maidstone won’t disappoint you.
And with a variety of pubs, bars and nightclubs, there’s always places to go when the sun goes down.
View our Television Production course
At the Maidstone Studios you'll have exclusive access to an expansive learning and teaching space, including 25 Apple editing-suites, screening rooms, audition room, sound booth, kitchen, kit room and library.
You’ll also get your hands on a load of industry-standard facilities and technology.
Discover more about individual specialist facilities on each of our course pages.
Maidstone Studios facilities video
If you wish to stay at UCA halls in your first year you can apply to live in Canterbury and utilise our shuttle bus service to get to and from the Studios, see our Canterbury Accommodation page to look at options.
UCA does not have halls in the Maidstone area so if you wish to live closer to the studios, you'll need to seek private accommodation for your course.
Our accommodation team is more than happy to help you with this process, and you can find more information on our Private Accommodation page.
As a professional, working studio many shows are filmed at the studios.
More details about the studios can be found on their website.
Visit the Studios website
The official Visit Maidstone website is packed with useful information about the area including a full list of events, information about top attractions, where to eat and drink and special offers.
Visit Maidstone
The Maidstone Studios is the home to some of the most exciting creative television space currently available, for more information about the studios and the work produced there please visit The Studios website .

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/about-us/accessibility:
We are committed to creating an inclusive and accessible environment for all students, staff and visitors.
At UCA we promote the social model of disability to help people understand how to increase accessibility and encourage inclusivity at the university.
This means removing physical, digital and systemic barriers to ensure everyone can navigate and participate fully in university life with confidence and ease.
Accessibility is an ongoing priority for everyone at UCA.
We are continuously working to improve our spaces and support to make this a place where everyone feels welcome, respected, and empowered.
Many of our studios and teaching facilities feature accessible workstations and equipment.
We recommend contacting the relevant Technical team member to learn more about the accessible options available in specific studios and teaching spaces.
Most lecture theatres across our campuses are equipped with hearing loops to support those with hearing impairments.
Our on-campus accommodation includes accessible bedrooms and kitchen facilities to ensure comfortable living for all students.
In addition to accessible toilets located throughout our campuses ( Canterbury , Epsom , Farnham and Maidstone TV Studios ), there is a Changing Places toilet facility available on our Farnham campus.
View all facilities
There is a range of assistive software to support students and staff with dyslexia and visual impairments.
Library IT Advisers (for students ) and Access to Work (for staff) will be able to help you access and use this software.
This includes:
We also recommend speaking with the relevant Technical team member for advice on specific assistive technology relevant to your course, subject area or job role.
We are proud to support the Sunflower Scheme for anyone with hidden disabilities.
The sunflower is a discreet way of letting people know that someone has a hidden disability and indicates that they may need additional support.
Sunflower lanyards are available across all UCA campus reception desks.
We recognise the vital role assistance dogs play in supporting individuals with disabilities.
They are welcome across UCA premises, including learning spaces and student accommodation.
Our Assistance Dogs Policy outlines the full conditions for their presence on campus.
Campus parking is primarily reserved for UCA staff.
However, disabled parking bays are available for blue badge holders and may be used by students if included in their agreed reasonable adjustments plan.
We are committed to providing an accessible web presence that gives everyone full access to our information and services.
As part of the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 we are required to ensure all our digital systems meet specific accessibility standards.
View accessibility statement
We consider all requests for reasonable adjustments to arrangements for the learning, teaching and assessment of disabled students.
We also seek to ensure that accessible approaches to the delivery of the curriculum are embedded within academic practice.
This does not, however, negate the need for us make reasonable adjustments for individual students.
When a student discloses a disability (either before or after enrolment) they’ll be invited to discuss their support needs with a member of the Disability Team.
The Team will then gather relevant evidence and assess how the student’s learning may be impacted.
If adjustments are needed, the Disability Team will work with colleagues across the University to plan these and ensure that the student agrees with the adjustments.
When a member of staff discloses they’ll be invited to discuss their support needs with their Line Manager.
The Line Manager will then gather relevant evidence and assess how the member of staff’s ability to conduct their role may be impacted.
If adjustments are needed, the Line Manager will work with colleagues across the University to plan these and ensure that the staff member agrees with the adjustments.
We’re always working to improve accessibility across our campuses and services.
If you’ve experienced an issue or have suggestions for how we can do better, we’d love to hear from you.
Please email belonging@uca.ac.uk to share your feedback.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/facilities-resources:
Our campuses are packed with all the facilities you need to assist you with your work, from spacious studios to traditional craft workshops
We're all about helping you turn your creative ideas into reality - not only through our expert teaching, but also thanks to the extensive facilities and resources that you'll have full access to.
Here, you'll discover more about what each of our campuses has to offer - from our traditional craft workshops and at Farnham, to our d igital fabrication lab at Canterbury.
Film & Media Centre
More than just books - our libraries are where you'll find a wealth of information, a friendly place to study and socialise and a place to go if you need support.
Light and airy and packed with resources to aid you in your design or art projects.
Our Epsom library covers two floors and includes:
This is our largest library space, which includes:
Our facilities and resources stretch further than just your learning - they extend to supporting you personally and professionally.
Click the links below to take you to further information about more of what UCA can offer.
Want to explore our facilities for yourself?
Our Open Days are the perfect opportunity to discover just how much UCA can offer.
Book your place

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/campuses/galleries:
As a creative university, we know our spaces for our students, graduates, staff and other creators need spaces to find creative inspiration and showcase their incredible work.
That's why you'll find galleries and exhibition spaces across our four campuses, and beyond.
Throughout the year, our galleries play host to our undergraduate and postgraduate Graduate Shows, exhibitions of work resulting from student projects, our annual technicians' showcase, displays of material from our archives, and exhibitions from visiting artists and artists-in-residence.
Discover more about our galleries, the current opportunities we have available within them, and how to stay up to date with the latest news and events.
Canterbury Herbert Read Gallery
Epsom Link Gallery
Farnham James Hockey & Foyer
All Campuses Special Projects
Want to find out about previous gallery exhibitions and events at UCA?
There are many ways in which you can get involved in our exhibitions and gallery operations.
As part of the UCA Galleries programming, we organise Open Call exhibitions inviting anyone from the UCA community, and sometimes further afield, to get involved and showcase their work.
When available, Open Call opportunities will be posted below.
Farnham Town Council Public Art Project
We’re also open to receiving exhibition proposals from UCA students, staff and alumni, as well as external artists.
If you are interested in putting forward a proposal for consideration, please email:
SURREY:
Loucia Manopoulou (Gallery Curator, Surrey) loucia.manopoulou@uca.ac.uk
KENT:
Bean (Gallery Curator, Kent) arly.bean@uca.ac.uk
Each year, the UCA Galleries offer short-term placements to students and graduates interested in gaining gallery-based work experience.
Past placements have involved students assisting the gallery curators with marketing, graphic design, exhibition installation, self-led curatorial research and exhibition curation.
When available, placement opportunities will be posted here.
The UCA Surrey Galleries offer paid gallery assistant and technician roles on an ad hoc casual basis.
The roles involve assisting with exhibition planning and installation, private views and other events.
If you are interested in a role with the UCA Surrey Galleries, in Farnham or in Epsom campus please contact: Loucia Manopoulou, Gallery Curator, Surrey) loucia.manopoulou@uca.ac.uk
If you want to stay in the loop on what exhibitions we have coming up, you can follow us in two ways:
Instagram
@ucagalleriessurrey
@uca_kentgalleries
Newsletter:
Surrey galleries
Kent galleries
Privacy Notice: If you subscribe to our mailing lists, we will only use your information to keep you informed about the galleries' exhibitions and events.
Your personal data will never be shared with third parties.
If you decide to unsubscribe, you can do so by clicking this option at the end of any of our emails, or by contacting us directly at gallerieskent@uca.ac.uk or gallery@uca.ac.uk .
Campus: UCA Canterbury
Campus: UCA Farnham

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/libraries:
At UCA, our four campus libraries are far more than just places to take out books.
They're quiet places to study away from your accommodation, places to discover archival material, rare broadcasts and texts, places to socialise with a coffee with your friends and the hub of our student support services.
Each of our campuses has a library stacked with everything you need, not only for your studies but also for university life.
We'd like to show you a little more of what our libraries have to offer, so read on to find out about the various resources we have, and how you can access them.
The Elaine Thomas Library, UCA Farnham
Library, UCA Epsom
Library, UCA Canterbury
There are multiple ways in which you can do your research for your studies, or for your own personal interests - here are the various resources we have in our libraries.
Our libraries are home to Learning Development Tutors who can assist you with your studies - from time management and presenting skills to improving your writing and critical thinking skills - and Liaison Librarians, who are on hand to help you get the best from your library.
We have a rich repository of archival material and special collections of rare and unique items - from original letters and artwork, to the back catalogue of Oscar-winning animator (and BA Animation founder) Bob Godfrey.
Find out more information about our archives and special collections .
We have a large number of artists' books - art that uses text and image in the form of books or other objects, including ‘zines and student work.
We have more than 200,000 books in print and electronic formats – which you can loan from your campus library, or source from our other campuses.
You'll have access to more than 50 databases that we've subscribed to, to help you with your studies.
They contain collections of articles, images, ebooks and other material.
A selection of dissertations and theses from previous students over the last three years are available for you to peruse.
Our subscription to a number of image databases - including UCA resourceBank, Art Museum Image Gallery, Britannica Imagequest, Getty Images, and Metropolitan Museum of Art Online - means you'll have hundreds of thousands of image references at your fingertips.
Journals are a useful tool for your area of study, offering the latest in current research and thought-leader pieces - we have a wide range of journal subscriptions which you can access.
With more than 19,000 DVDs and access to a number of specialist arts streaming databases, you'll be able to reference a wide range of videos, television programmes and other learning resources.
This is a national image repository hosted by UCA, and comprises 140,000 items and associated metadata from 300 collections, brought together online to enhance learning, teaching and research in the visual and creative arts.
If you want to take a look at the research undertaken by UCA staff, and PhD theses, then we have open online access via our UCARO (UCA Research Online) service.
You don't have to be a student or a staff member to access our libraries - there are various access options available to you depending on whether you're UCA alumni, a member of the public or work in education.
If you're an UCA alumni network member - y ou can access our libraries for reference purposes and to borrow items free of charge up to three years after you’ve graduated.
If you wish to continue borrowing after this period you can join our membership scheme for £15 a year.
If you work in education as an art teacher, careers advisor or school librarian - you can have free library membership with extensive access - just download and complete our External Library membership application form .
UCA students and staff members - did you know you can also access other libraries at universities across the country through SCONUL Access?
Find out more here .
If you're a member of the public - you can access our libraries and online resources for reference, or you can become an External Borrowing Member for £25 a year.
If you'd like to do this, download and complete our External & SCONUL Library membership application form .
Our libraries offer extensive student support services - from help with your study to financial advance and even counselling - to enhance your university experience.
Access student support

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/about-us:
At UCA, we believe that creativity makes global communities more vibrant, more innovative, more human.
For 160 years, our university has been a passionate advocate for creative education and research.
We offer courses in Architecture, Crafts, Fashion, Graphic Design, Illustration, Fine Art, Photography, Film, Media, the Performing Arts and Creative Business.
Our programmes are acclaimed for their top teaching quality, and highly respected by creative sector employers.
But we’re a lot more than that, too.
We want to inspire people to use their creativity to drive change, overcome challenges and improve the lives of others.
So we’ve designed our university to be an inclusive, dynamic environment.​ Our campuses across Surrey and Kent, our Institute for Creative Innovation in Xiamen, China, and our homes within partner organisations such as the Maidstone Television Studios all have one thing in common:
They are places to forge inspiring partnerships, make work with purpose and build real solutions to human problems across the globe – whether that’s as part of our vibrant teaching and research community, or as a student on one of our courses.
Our ten-year strategy sets out how we're working to make UCA an even better place to work and study.
View our strategy and mission
We are the second highest-ranked specialist creative university in the UK for 2025, according to The Guardian.
UCA is ranked 12th for social inclusion by The Times/Sunday Times for 2025.
Joint Acting Vice-Chancellor
Joint Acting Vice-Chancellor and Chief Operating Officer
Pro Vice Chancellor Academic Partnerships and Industry Engagement
Pro Vice-Chancellor Creative Education
Pro Vice-Chancellor Student Experience, Professor of Art & Design Education
Professor Dame Magdalene Odundo is an internationally renowned ceramicist whose work can be found in public and private collections worldwide.
She became UCA’s second Chancellor in June 2018, succeeding Dame Zandra Rhodes, who became Chancellor Emerita.
After graduating from UCA’s Farnham campus, which was then known as West Surrey College of Art & Design, Dame Magdalene developed her unique creative technique, drawing on traditional Ugandan practice and other sources, such as Mexican pottery and Greek Cycladic sculpture, to build her pieces.
Dame Magdalene was Professor of Ceramics at UCA Farnham from 2001 to 2016, and then became Professor Emerita.
She has received honours from cultural and educational institutions across the world.
Dame Zandra Rhodes is UCA’s Chancellor Emerita - a role she took up after serving as our first Chancellor from 2010 to 2018.
Dame Zandra is one of the world's most recognisable, distinguished and exciting fashion designers.
She has built her career on the foundations of hard work and determination – the same values that inspire and motivate our students to succeed in their chosen careers.
Dame Zandra is also a graduate of one of our founder institutions, The Medway College of Design, where her mother was also a lecturer.
Information about academic and support staff is available within our staff directory.
View all staff
Graduates of UCA become members of our alumni network - a global creative community of like-minded makers and innovators who have studied at UCA or one of our founder institutions.
View alumni information
As a university, we have a responsibility to impact the world positively, and we believe in leading by example.
Find out more about where we stand on the big issues.
Head over to our media pages for our press office contacts and details of how we can help.
Media Enquiries

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/alumni:
When you graduate from UCA you become a member of our alumni network - a global creative community of like-minded makers and innovators who have studied at UCA or one of our founder institutions.
This is also where you can discover some of the successful careers that UCA alumni have pursued after graduating.
We’re here to help you stay connected, build partnerships and links that will shape your career.
Abigail Marsh
Luap aka Paul Robinson
Our alumni and current students can join our LinkedIn Alumni Group.
It’s a space to share your creativity, successes and tips, connect, and to keep up to date with alumni news and events.
We love hearing about your achievements, from your incredible work and innovative start-ups to your amazing accolades.
We want to share them, so if you’re interested in writing a blog, being interviewed, or featuring on our social media, get in touch
If you need an educational, academic or character reference for a UCA student or graduate you can get in touch.
The Graduate Outcomes Survey captures the career journeys and views of recent graduates.
It's an opportunity to share views and give future students insights into the opportunities open to them.
As a UCA alumnus you continue to be part of our community of creative pioneers but there are a few other perks too.
You can get a discount if you decide to take your studies to the next level with a postgraduate degree
With access to our online resources, live events and one-to-one sessions, we’re here to help you plan your next move.
View our careers and employability page
You can access our libraries for reference purposes and to borrow items free of charge up to three years after you’ve graduated.
Information for alumni and external users
If you require further copies of your transcript after you graduate, please see the further information about this.
Request a copy of your transcript
We are committed to protecting the personal information of our alumni and being clear about what information we hold.
For information about how the University uses your personal data, please take a look at our data protection policy .

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/careers-and-professional-practice/employers:
At UCA we encourage our students to undertake work placements during their studies and help to facilitate this – and this is where you come in!
Work with us to provide placements for current students, or if you’re looking for a graduate to join your team, you can advertise jobs and placement opportunities free of charge with us.
Advertising jobs and placements
We are happy to work with employers, charitable organisations and graduate start-ups to promote opportunities that support the employability of UCA students and recent graduates.
Connect with highly skilled, talented, and creative UCA students.
Create your Company Profile free of charge by visiting our job vacancies site .
Please note we reserve the right not to advertise vacancies which may be deemed to be unsuitable.
Please see our Careers & Professional Practice Statement of Service – Employers and for more information on this, or any other aspect of our services to employers, please contact us:
For more information:
What can we advertise?
We can advertise vacancies and work experience opportunities for students and graduates.
These can be full or part time, freelance, placements or volunteering opportunities.
We do not advertise any vacancies that, to our knowledge:
In both the above cases, employers must quote the relevant section of the applicable Act when submitting the vacancy.
In addition, we do not provide recruitment services involving pre-selecting or matching candidates for the job vacancies we advertise on our vacancy platform on behalf of employers.
Disclaimer – Recruitment Agencies/Job Boards
UCA Careers & Employability:
Post a job
To advertise a job you need to create a Company Profile free of charge by visiting our job vacancies site .
Collaborative projects
We host a programme of taught sessions in the academic timetable to support student career development and work readiness.
Employers can often contribute.
Careers and employability events
Employers can get to meet students and graduates through our programme of events.
This includes workshops, presentations and stands at fairs and employer events.
Feedback from employers
Are we doing things well or can we improve what we do?
Let us know how you would like to work with us.
UCA students have the option to enrol on courses that include a Professional Practice Year, or PPY for short.
PPYs take place after enrolled students pass the second year of their undergraduate course and offer students a chance to immerse themselves in industry for a year, to contextualise their learning, develop their professional acumen and get their foot in the door of their chosen sector.
Lasting for a minimum of 32 weeks, working no fewer than 30 hours per week, placements are a formal and assessed element of our courses.
As such, students have set learning objectives and their progress is tracked and assessed.
We believe that our students make a genuine contribution to businesses during their placement years and so, we aim to secure paid placements for them.
However, we recognise that the circumstances of our Placement Providers may vary.
Above all, we are committed to ensuring the learning outcomes of our students’ placements are robust.
If you are would like to find out more about working with us to provide a Professional Practice Year placement email careers@uca.ac.uk .
Students who are studying a three year undergraduate course have the opportunity to embark on short placements, they gain first-hand industry experience and develop their professional network whilst businesses have the chance to work with up and coming creatives.
Short placements are available to students across all of our undergraduate courses, to find out more about how you can host a placement email careers@uca.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/about-us/global-partnerships:
Creativity has no boundaries – no matter where you’re from, people have a desire to create, innovate and change the narrative.
That’s why at UCA we’re doing all we can to help universities and partner institutions provide the very best in creative education and, in turn, propel global creative industries.
Our Global Partnerships team is dedicated to working with institutions around the world, providing a network of professionals to ensure partner institutions can teach specialist creative subjects, from visual communications and fashion to textiles and fine art.
We work with our partners to validate undergraduate, postgraduate, and doctoral courses that cater to the demands of the global market, by giving you the prestige of offering UCA-affiliated programmes.
We are also keen to partner with institutions on important research projects and collaborations - whether future-thinking, addressing social and environmental concerns, or preserving cultural traditions and history.
A validated course is a new course designed by the partner, using UCA protocols (and often in collaboration with UCA), which is then approved (‘validated’) by UCA as being of sufficient quality and standard to lead to a UCA award, for delivery by that partner.
A franchised course is an existing (or sometimes, modified) UCA course which has been approved (‘franchised’) for delivery by an external partner.
The granting of separate awards (and certificates) for the same programme by two degree-awarding bodies who have both contributed to the development and delivery of the programme of study leading to them (students achieve a degree from the partner institution and a degree from UCA).
Discussion time should be allowed during the approval stages of the partnerships to discuss the proposed joint delivery and the finalised arrangements should be specified in the formal written agreements for each partnership and each course.
A formal agreement where UCA recognises the credit rating of a named qualification of another partner institution creating the opportunity to transfer credit and enable student entry from the named institution with advanced standing to a course, leading to a UCA award.
This differs from a Progression Agreement as the student is not required to undergo a separate and individualised application/interview for entry as admission is automatic and based upon the course completed at the partner institution (provided the student meets any UKVI requirements for admission).
We seek to partner with like-minded institutions who are supportive of diversity, inclusion and exploration and would be happy to consider collaborations which encompass a reciprocal staff and student exchange on a fee waiver basis or a non-reciprocal incoming study abroad and visiting scholars scheme on a fee paying basis or a combination of both.
Please contact the Global Mobility Team at exchange@uca.ac.uk if you would like more information.
Through our partners our students and staff have global reach and impact influencing opinion formers and policy makers, carrying out innovative and world leading research, gaining valuable international experience, and accessing sustainable sources of funding.
UCA strongly supports ensuring our students have an international experience and we understand the value international students bring to our campuses and are proud of our multicultural student community.
Find out about the steps to becoming a partner: Your Partnership Journey
Find out more about being a partner with us
“For anyone thinking about taking one of these opportunities I would say it is worth every penny.
There’s nothing better than visiting somewhere new but being able to fully immerse yourself in the place as well as speak and learn from those who live there - I will remember it forever!”
Mari Fox-Harwood, International Summer School Hangyang student
Mari Fox-Harwood
We’re proud to work with amazing universities, private institutions and research partners both in the UK and around the world – these are just a few:
There are many types of partnership you can forge with UCA, and you can find out more about all of them on our dedicated page:
“I chose my course to enjoy the amazing opportunity of studying in one of the world's most prestigious art universities.
That too, without having to leave my homeland.” Hijjab Waqar Hussain, graduate of UCA-validated BA (Hons) Fashion Textiles at The Millennium College, Pakistan
Hijjab Waqar Hussain
If you want to find out more about UCA and what we do before you enquire, take a look at our highlights:
Our courses
Our campuses
Our research
International at UCA
About us
Find out more about Global Partnerships:

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/about-us/working-at-uca:
To view our current vacancies, please go our jobs portal:
We offer a range of working benefits, opportunities to learn and develop your skills and schemes to ensure you feel supported at work.
The University has a dedicated Learning & Development team who work with staff and managers to ensure that development opportunities are capitalised upon, using innovative and creative techniques.
They also support the development of approaches and initiatives designed to improve colleague engagement and wellbeing, including:
Our campuses are 100% creative.
Find out more:
If you have any questions about working at UCA or our current vacancies, please email us at hrrecruitment@ucreative.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/schools:
When it comes to creative degrees and careers in the creative industries, UCA is on hand to help!
Whether you’re a teacher or a career advisor, you can count on us.
UCA offers a range of activities for schools that can be tailored to your students – with opportunities to talk with our experts, practical masterclasses and unique insights into what a creative education can look like.
For more information get in touch: teachers@uca.ac.uk
UCA is proud to be partnered with schools and colleges around the UK, where we can provide high-quality support for students who are looking to go into higher education and the creative industries.
Here’s who we are currently working with:
You can keep in touch with all the latest UCA news via our teachers’ newsletter:

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/outreach:
At UCA we nurture creative talent.
Our dedicated Outreach team works with targeted schools and community groups to support individuals from underrepresented backgrounds to make informed decisions about whether higher education and the creative industries is for them through interactive opportunities, advice and guidance.
Virtual Fine Art Summer School participant 2022
We host a range of events and activities for individuals from underrepresented groups primarily within Kent, Surrey, and North-East Hampshire.
Our activities are led by our pool of creative tutors and supported by student ambassadors, offering the chance to try a range of creative disciplines and explore the potential of a career in the creative industries.
If you would like to get in touch with us about organising a campus visit, in-school workshop, presentation, or any of the other activities mentioned on our website for your school, college or community group, please complete the form via the link below.
Enquiries Form
If you would like to be notified of upcoming Outreach activities, please follow the link below and complete the form.
Register your interest
To promote access to higher education we work in partnership with a range of higher education networks.
UCA has a long history of working to raise the aspirations and attainment of young people in Kent and Medway who may not consider progression to Higher Education (HE) as a route to success.
Our outreach work in this region is via the Kent and Medway Progression Federation (KMPF).
Discover our KMPF outreach offer
UCA works with the Higher Education Outreach Network (HEON), a consortia of universities delivering activities to promote progression to Higher Education within specific wards across Surrey and North East Hampshire.
We offer outreach activities to pupils in Years 9 to 13, as well as impartial information, advice and guidance on Higher Education.
Learn more about HEON
The Care Leavers Progression Partnership (CLPP) is network of organisations in Kent and Medway, committed to improving the post-16 education and training experience for local children in care and care leavers.
Visit the CLPP website

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/heon:
UCA works with the Higher Education Outreach Network (HEON), a partnership of universities and colleges, to deliver activities which raise the attainment and aspirations of young people across North Hampshire and Surrey as part of the Uni Connect programme.
Our aim is to give pupils from Years 10-13 the information they need to make decisions about their future, and give them opportunities to explore the variety of Higher Education pathways which are available.
You can find out more about HEON specific programmes, and find advice, information and guidance about post-16 options on the HEON website.
As well as our programmed events, you can book activities and sessions that are tailored to your students.
When applying for a HEON programme, priority is given to students who meet one or more of the criteria below:
UCA and HEON processes data in accordance with the General Data Protection Rules (GDPR).
Refer to the UCA HEON Data Privacy Notice .
UCA's data protection policies and privacy notices can be viewed here .
You have the right to review information held about you.
If you would like to do so or to notify us of a change of your details, please email by emailing heon@uca.ac.uk .
If you believe there is no legitimate reason for us to continue processing your data and wish us to delete it, please contact the Data Protection Officer dpo@uca.ac.uk
If you are interested in being notified of upcoming activities, please follow the link below and enter your details.
If you have any questions about HEON at UCA, please call us on 01252 918363 or send an email

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/kamcop-kmpf:
For many years, the University for the Creative Arts (UCA) has worked to raise the aspirations and attainment of young people in Kent and Medway who may not consider progression to Higher Education (HE) as a route to success.
Our outreach work in this region is via the Kent and Medway Progression Federation (KMPF) .
KMPF combines UCA’s self-funded outreach activities with additional funding from the Office for Students (OfS) through their Uni Connect programme, in partnership with more than 40 schools and colleges.
As the creative specialist in the region, UCA promotes progression in creative arts, business and technology through a variety of activities, including workshops, talks and self sign-up events.
In the KMPF network, we work with young people in Years 7-13 and those studying on further education (FE) courses.
Our programme of self sign-up outreach events are designed to help young people explore their creative potential, learn new skills and make a difference.
All of our events are free and materials are provided to anyone allocated a place.
Priority places are given to students from under-represented backgrounds.
UCA offers FREE activities to suit students in Years 7-13 or FE equivalent levels.
In addition to the opportunities which are directly bookable by your school or college, we offer free activities, events and resources that young people can access independently to find out more about creative pathways and careers.
Young people can find out more about our current range of opportunities on our student facing webpage, Get Creative.
Our KMPF outreach offer is available for KMPF partner schools and colleges .
If you’re unsure whether your students are eligible to take part in anything you’ve seen on our webpages, email us at outreach@uca.ac.uk and we’ll be happy to help.
Discover our full KMPF Outreach Offer Booklet.
Keep up-to-date with UCA’s outreach activities by joining our mailing list .
We know students might need some support to get the most out of their university experience.
Whether that’s with learning, getting around, their finances or their wellbeing, we’re on hand to help.
Find out more about the specialist support available at UCA.
All information, activities and opportunities are subject to change and availability.
All details are correct at the time of publication.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/about-us/our-staff:
Find out about our staff at UCA

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/term-dates:
To help you plan your time at university we’ve pulled together all the important dates for the academic year.
These will vary slightly depending on the level of study and when your course starts.
So, take a look and pop them in your calendar so you can stay on top of what’s happening when – from term dates to results day.
Bank holidays:
Bank holidays
*26 May 2025 is a public holiday in the UK and there is no teaching.
*25 May 2026 is a public holiday in the UK and there is no teaching.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/events:
We host a variety events throughout the year across all campuses.
Take a look through all upcoming events on this page or select a category below to see relevant events.
Award-winning Finnish video artist Nastja Säde Rönkkö presents her thought-provoking installation Survival Guide for a Post-Apocalyptic Child at the historic Fort Burgoyne in Dover, from 1 August to 31 August 2025.
Art, design and architecture combine with activism and innovation in the Canterbury Postgrad Show.
Opening night Tues 2 Sept - 5-7pm
See the very latest innovations and concepts in fashion and creative business at Epsom’s Postgrad Showcase.
Opening night Wed 3 September 5-7pm
Everywhere you look you’ll find fascinating, thought-provoking, exciting and innovative work in this year’s postgraduate showcase at our Farnham campus.
Opening night Thu 4 Sept - 5-7pm
Farnham Repair Café normally operates on the second Saturday of every month at The Spire Church, right in the heart of Farnham, Surrey.
Bringing together five-years of PhD practice-based research, Elevating the Everyday is an exploration of Moving Images in the Shop Window.
New portrait and art exhibition Invisible Visible by Natalia Sharomova and the
Ukrainian Art Group to open at the Foyer Gallery, University for the Creative Arts, Farnham in
September.
Coming to an event at UCA and need to know how to get here?
View maps and directions

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/about-us/media-enquiries:
Our Press Office is here to assist the media with enquiries relating to UCA.
Please get in touch if you…
Our Press Office contacts:
Emma Cook, Media Relations Officer E: emma.cook@uca.ac.uk M: 07972677194
Press Office E: pressoffice@uca.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/about-us/contact-us:
Discover how to find our creative campuses and how to contact us with your questions...
We host Open Days throughout the year to give you an opportunity to find out more about what it's like to be a UCA student.
Can't make it to an Open Day?
Join us for a campus tour or explore UCA for yourself using our virtual tours.
Take a look through the options below and we'll send you directly to the relevant webpage:
Want to speak to our media team?
Visit our Media Enquiries page.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/clearing/apply:
Clearing applications are open.
You can make a Clearing application to UCA by filling in your details below, or by calling us on 012 52 918 240 .
If you haven't got your results you can still apply, but we'll contact you once you have them to confirm your grades.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/clearing/courses:
Take the spotlight, tread the boards, and break the fourth wall on our exciting industry connected BA (Hons) Acting degree course at UCA Farnham.
Our practical and performance-based degree gives you the in-depth vocational training you’ll need to excel on stage, on screen, and in digital media, with rigorous practical learning and collaborations with a wide range of industry partners and networks including the National Theatre, Shakespeare’s Globe, and the British Film Institute.
This course is also recognised by Spotlight and Equity UK.
You will participate in workshops specialising in voice, movement, text, and character, and as this course is production focussed, you will be cast in both live and digital performances as well as devising your own work.
You will be supported in your professional development, producing a portfolio including headshots, voice reels, showreels, and a website.
You’ll be able to use our state-of-the-art facilities, including our recording, motion capture, and virtual production studios, while our partnerships with Farnham Maltings and other respected theatres will enable you to learn and showcase your work in professional live performance environments.
When you graduate, you may also be able to audition for the new UCA Graduate Company.
This course has previously been named BA (Hons) Acting & Performance and the title has been updated to BA (Hons) Acting from September 2025 entry.
View full course info
If you’re keen to forge a career within the world of animation, then look no further than our renowned BA (Hons) Animation course.
Established in 1972 by Academy Award™ winner Bob Godfrey, ours is one of the best-known and most highly regarded animation courses in the world, with graduates going on to create iconic characters such as Hey Duggee, Peppa Pig, and Compare the Market’s meerkats.
Whatever your preferred medium – whether you want to make animated films using CGI, traditional drawing, oil on glass, sand animation, or pixelation – you’ll be encouraged to follow your passions and aim high.
To help you achieve this, you’ll have access to our incredible facilities, including a stop motion studio with Dragonframe Capture, professional camera equipment, and stages pre-rigged with grips, stands, and lights.
Not to mention computer suites kitted out with the latest Adobe, Toon Boom, and Maya CG software.
Along the way, we’ll support you with our extensive knowledge, experience, and industry contacts, providing everything you need to become an innovative storyteller and artist.
Take the first step on your journey to becoming an architect on our highly regarded BA (Hons) Architecture degree course, taught at UCA Canterbury.
You’ll focus on learning about space, regulation, and society, and how design decisions can impact on the individual, on sustainability, and on climate.
We don’t expect you to have all the answers to these big questions – just an open mind.
You’ll need to be ready to experiment, rethink processes and narratives, and learn as you go.
With dedicated studios, an enviable position in the cathedral city of Canterbury, and a team of staff who are mainly practice-based and industry-driven, you’ll have the space and the support you need to learn and to create.
Please note, the course for 2026 entry is subject to re-validation.
Our BSc (Hons) Automotive & Transport Design degree course at UCA Canterbury is an exciting course that focuses on exploring the future of personal and mass transit, and developing solutions that can meet the climate, social, and political challenges of the future.
We’ll ask you to reconsider everything you think you know about transport.
As you begin to design and develop your ideas, you’ll also learn to prototype and test in real and virtual space, using technology including our motion capture suite to explore capacity, ergonomics, and qualitative testing.
On top of design considerations, you’ll also learn about societal and environmental impacts, policies, implementations, operating expenses, sustainability, and many other factors that shape approaches to transport design.
Please note, there is no option to study this course with the Integrated Foundation Year or the Professional Practice Year.
Our unique and pioneering BA (Hons) Body Art degree course at UCA Canterbury explores the body as a site for artistic expression, identity, and communication.
As the only degree in the UK dedicated to body art as a broad artistic and cultural practice, you’ll examine wide range of body art practices, including body painting, digital design, printmaking, sculpture, photography, and performance art.
You’ll delve into bodybuilding, cosmetic surgery, drag, queer and trans bodies, addressing the body as a canvas for creativity, transformation, and storytelling – not to mention the cultural and historical significance of body art in communities worldwide.
This Body Art degree also explores tattooing, but it is important to stress this is not a just a tattoo degree or a tattoo training course.
You’ll learn non-invasive tattoo design using synthetic skins and mannequins, but actual tattooing must be undertaken as part of an apprenticeship in a licensed studio, alongside your university studies.
You’ll be preparing for your future career throughout the course as you benefit from a range of professional development opportunities along the way.
This includes portfolio development to industry marketing strategies, and an understanding of the global body art landscape.
So, whether you come into the course with some experience or none, by the time you graduate you’ll have acquired a wealth of highly valued skills that you could apply in a range of careers.
This includes body art for fashion, media, and performance, creative direction or curation in the arts, art writing, or theatrical work.
Or you may apply these skills in a career as a tattoo artist (with an apprenticeship for invasive practices).
Equivalent to the final year of an undergraduate degree, our BA (Hons) Business and Management (top-up) course at UCA Epsom enables you to build upon an existing qualification such as a foundation degree or an HND.
The BA Business and Management Top-Up course is designed to build on your prior learning and prepare you for a range of careers in the global creative industries.
You will develop further your business, strategic, entrepreneurial, and analytical skills, to manage and lead, while, by gaining financial literacy, data analytic skills and insight into decision-making processes, you’ll be able to solve problems and make informed decisions in the business of the global creative industries.
You will also establish critical insight into creative organisations, their cultures, structures and management, and into the wider economic environments and social contexts, specific to the global creative industries.
By the end of your Business and Management Top-Up degree, you will be able to demonstrate skills and attributes for future employment, including communication, team building, leadership, and the ability to motivate others, as well as the ability to nurture equality, diversity, and inclusion – central to all work in the global creative industries.
Make an impact on global business organisations with the practical skills, industry experience, and entrepreneurial spirit you’ll gain on our BA (Hons) Business & Management degree course at UCA Epsom.
This course is designed to prepare you to be a world-leading creative business professional, ready for a range of career opportunities in the creative business sector, and you’ll have the opportunity to specialise in one or more areas of the creative and cultural industries.
With a focus on creativity and design outputs, which are supported by financial literacy, data investigations and the application of analytical models, you’ll be able to solve problems and make informed decisions in the business of the global creative and cultural industries.
By the end of your degree, you’ll be ready to enter any area of creative business with the skills, knowledge, and confidence to succeed – whether that’s within a major organisation or by embarking on your own entrepreneurial journey.
Equivalent to the final year of an undergraduate degree, our BA (Hons) Business Innovation & Management (top-up) course at UCA Epsom enables you to build upon an existing qualification such as a foundation degree or an HND.
This degree will show you the way social sciences can aid business innovation management, and by critically examining current research in the field, you’ll gain a deep understanding of the role it plays within the creative industries.
Throughout the year, your focus will be on learning through activities that enable you to practice, exhibit and develop your confidence in enterprise, and you’ll gain skills that will apply to any creative industry sector – from luxury and fashion to technology and music.
Overall, the course will develop your ability to weigh up ethical and intellectual considerations and build on your commitment to becoming a business professional.
Turn on the television and the schedules are packed with programmes about specialist crafts and other making activities.
If you're inspired to get involved, you can develop your passion for designing and making on our BA (Hons) Ceramics & Glass degree course.
The course is forward-thinking and dynamic in its approach to materials, but it’s also built on a strong tradition of craft practice in the World Craft Town of Farnham – meaning you get the best of both worlds when it comes to creating your own masterpieces.
Facilities at UCA Farnham are world-class, so you’ll have everything you need to establish yourself and your craft identity with guidance from our team of expert staff – innovative practitioners in their own right – who bring extensive knowledge and experience.
Alongside making, you’ll explore the contextual background to your work, helping you gain a better understanding of the roles of ceramics and glass in history and wider society.
If working with clay or experimenting with glass is calling to you, start your journey at UCA and experience the possibilities for yourself.
Passionate about the world of games and comics?
Dream of creating exciting concepts for worlds and characters?
Our highly popular BA (Hons) Comic & Concept Art degree course at UCA Fanrham will give you the tools and the network to follow those dreams.
You’ll learn the techniques and modes of presentation used in the industry, together with fundamental art skills which you’ll then apply in different ways, depending on your chosen medium.
Plus, you’ll gain the storytelling skills to bring your characters and worlds to life.
You’ll be guided along the way by a team of staff who have direct industry experience, and you'll have access to enviable facilities including our suite of Wacom Cintiq tablets.
Once you graduate, you’ll have the right skills to aim high in the career of your choice, whether it’s as a comic artist specialising in layout, panel, and page design, a concept artist creating new characters and environments, which help define the look and feel of entertainment franchises.
While other computer science degrees sit within a traditional technological setting, our BSc (Hons) Computer Science degree course at UCA Farnham sits within a highly creative community – giving you a fresh perspective on your learning.
You’ll work with creators across different artforms – from acting to film – and gather data to feed systems and build creative outputs.
You’ll have access to a wealth of creative facilities, resources, and collaborative opportunities to create unique work that’s conceptual, aesthetically pleasing, and responsive to the latest industry developments.
You’ll learn about coding, programming for interactivity, AI for creativity, and much more.
Studying in a community-driven environment, you’ll have plenty of one-to-one tutorials, plus opportunities to work alongside postgraduate and PhD students.
Along the way, our programme of learning will help you develop sought-after creative problem-solving skills and prepare you to evolve with the industry throughout your career.
This new top-up degree course in Computer Science and Practice at UCA Farnham offers an exciting take on computing within a creative context to build on the skills you have already attained in your earlier studies.
It focuses on understanding and working with computer systems and networks at a deep level, but also how those skills are put into dialogue with other fields.
Building upon your foundational knowledge, which will include experience with Python and Java, this course promotes your development as a transdisciplinary, multifaceted student – skills which are highly sought after in the creative industries.
You will develop computer science knowledge, practice and technical skills in a design-oriented, creative context.
Your theoretical knowledge of the computing discipline will be developed within the framework of understanding its professional and international context.
The curriculum emphasises designing and producing software outputs, supported by theoretical frameworks, problem solving skills and group working experience.
As well as developing knowledge and understanding of programming, data types and databases, web design and development and user interfaces, you'll also learn about the software engineering frameworks of project management and the software lifecycle.
Artificial intelligence and cyber security, which are critical to modern computing, will be explored in some depth.
Hone your business and management skills specifically for a future career in the fashion industry, with this year-long top-up BA (Hons) Creative Industries Management in Fashion degree course at UCA Epsom.
Equivalent to the final year of an undergraduate degree, this course enables you to 'top-up' an existing qualification, such as a foundation degree or an HND.
You'll join us at level 6 with your previous knowledge and accredited learning, achieving a greater level of independence with self-managed research, study and practice.
This course focuses on building on your existing business and management knowledge of the fast-moving fashion industry.
You’ll learn about capturing and creating customer value, ethical behaviour and sustainability within fashion, and the place of entrepreneurship in the development of the industry.
Tell stories, build worlds, and create characters on our exciting BA (Hons) Design for Theatre & Screen degree course at UCA Farnham.
On this course, we nurture imaginative and divergent thinkers, offering you the time, conditions, and support to find your creative voice and develop the confidence to say what you want to design and create with authenticity.
You’ll engage with and respond to stories – researching and exploring your own ways of telling them and experimenting to find the visual worlds where those stories could thrive.
And you’ll have the opportunity to create the costumes and props that exist in those worlds, too.
Our staff are practising theatre and film professionals, and with industry links to organisations like the Royal Opera House and National Theatre, you’ll gain the knowledge, skills, and experience to sustain your craft beyond university.
If you want to approach fine art from a technological perspective, our BA (Hons) Digital Art degree course at UCA Farnham is the ideal starting place.
On this course you won’t be drawing on tablets – you’ll be exploring digital culture and creating art in response to it.
Technology might be your subject, your medium, or both: you could use VR headsets to create a virtual experience, or build a sculpture out of them!
And with access to the full scope of facilities across the Farnham campus, you’ll have endless possibilities for thought-provoking work.
With the skills and collaborative confidence, you’ll develop during your studies, you could choose a career as an artist, or move into areas like digital content creation.
Our graduates have gone on to become successful YouTube creators like PJ Ligouri (KickThePJ), and TikTok influencers.
Want to take your place in the ever-evolving landscape of digital marketing and social media?
Our BA (Hons) Digital Media & Social Media degree course at UCA Epsom will give you the skills to get there.
You’ll learn the fundamentals of the discipline, from media planning and buying to brand identity, marketing, and communications.
You’ll explore the impact of social media on society, politics, and the economy — plus the practical elements of using social media as a business tool.
You’ll have the chance to apply your skills in a specific area of interest within the creative industries – choose from Cosmetics and Beauty, Fashion, Games, Lifestyle, or Music.
And in your second year, you’ll be able to pick from a range of exciting elective units to broaden your knowledge even further.
By the end of your degree, you’ll be an expert marketeer and a highly effective social media manager with the knowledge you need to use paid, owned, and earned media to meet business goals, plus a detailed understanding of how to target your core audiences and harness the power of influencers.
You’ll be adaptable and quick-thinking, with a detailed grasp of the role that digital marketing and social media play in different global markets.
Hands-on from day one, our Fashion Atelier degree course  is a dream course for those passionate about the craft of fashion.
This is the only course of its kind in the country and it demands full commitment from its students.
Everything you do will result in a tangible fashion product; you’ll be making contemporary garments from the outset as you learn the specialist techniques required for creatingbespoke fashion masterpieces.
From pattern-cutting and draping to translating 2D ideas into 3D products through specialist making and finishing, you'll develop bespoke tailoring skills, and become a true expert in the art of high-end couture.
As you work, you’ll be supported by experts in fashion atelier, who will guide you towards realising your vision.
In fashion, an atelier is a specialised workshop where skilled designers craft high-end garments.
At UCA, our Fashion Atelier degree immerses you in this tradition and equips you with the precision, craftsmanship, and luxury design skills needed to create bespoke pieces.
Please note, the title of this course has been updated for 2025 entry and the course has previously been titled BA (Hons) Fashion Atelier & Tailoring.
Fashion isn’t just about the catwalk – there’s a whole world of marketing, communication, and branding behind it.
On our BA (Hons) Fashion Branding & Communication degree course, we’ll help you become an expert in the fashion arena.
As well as teaching you the fundamentals of business, this course, taught at UCA Epsom’s Business School for the Creative Industries, will develop your knowledge of the fashion industry to an expert level, with a particular focus on how brands communicate, operate, and innovate.
You’ll use what you learn to develop methods for communicating your own creative ideas to consumers.
You’ll also get the chance to broaden your knowledge by applying these skills in a range of other specific areas of interest within the creative industries.
And in your second year you’ll be able to pick from a host of exciting elective units to extend your knowledge.
By the time you graduate, you’ll have gained the experience to build lasting relationships throughout the global fashion industry using communication, promotion, networking, and technology.
And we’re confident you’ll follow in the footsteps of our many successful graduates, who have gone on to work for the likes of ASOS, Celine, L’Oréal, Paul Smith, Farfetch, Burberry, and Chanel.
Kick-start your career in the fashion industry with our BA (Hons) Fashion Business & Management degree, taught at UCA Epsom.
This fashion business course is designed for those who are passionate about both the creative and commercial aspects of the fashion industry.
Our Fashion Business and Management degree course combines theoretical insights and practical skills.
You'll gain expertise in fashion management, buying, merchandising, branding, communication and sustainability, while exploring the historical, cultural, and strategic aspects of the global fashion market.
You'll also develop essential digital skills that ensure you're prepared for the evolving landscape of the fashion business industry.
We are accredited by the Chartered Management Institute , meaning you'll work to earn a prestigious professional qualification alongside your degree when you graduate.
Whether you aspire to be an entrepreneur or a leader in an established fashion company, you will graduate with the skills needed to make a meaningful impact in the dynamic world of fashion business management.
Turn ideas into reality, express yourself through fashion, and get invaluable access to the industry on our Fashion Design degree at UCA Epsom.
This course prides itself on its diverse student body.
Regardless of where you are on your design journey, we have the space and the skilled team to help you reach your full potential.
You’ll learn a broad range of skills, from research and concept development to implementation, showcase, and branding.
In your third year, you’ll create a final collection, with options for 3D or digital outputs, or a mix of the two.
And, with opportunities to undertake a second-year work placement, connect with key players in the fashion industry, and showcase your work at events such as Graduate Fashion Week and London Fashion Week, we’ll help you fashion a great career.
Have you ever seen an advert on television, a shoot in a magazine, or a fashion runway show and wished you could have been part of bringing it to life?
Then this BA (Hons) Fashion Image & Styling degree course at UCA Epsom is the one for you.
The course will teach you how to create looks and to experiment in the studio and on location to produce ideas for editorial, magazines, campaigns, TV, events, and film.
You’ll collaborate in-house, working alongside students in fashion design, textiles, fashion photography, and make-up and hair design.
In addition to working with lecturers with a wealth of industry experience and knowledge, you’ll have the opportunity to learn from visiting industry professionals in the fields of styling, editorial, and fashion communication.
Graduates of this course have gone on to work in events and campaigns for Gucci and Marks & Spencer, styled shoots for i-D Magazine and NET-A-PORTER, contributed to and hosted fashion events in London, Milan, and New York.
Creating fashion images inspired by your personal experience and interests, but that also comment on the world around you, is what our BA (Hons) Fashion Photography degree course is about.
As well as giving you solid foundations in the principles of photography and fashion image making, our course, taught at UCA Epsom, champions individual voices.
We will encourage you to approach briefs from a multidisciplinary perspective and make highly creative fashion images that reflect the demands of the industry and the voice of your generation.
Collaboration and boundary-pushing are not just encouraged, they are embedded in the ethos of the course.
We will take you on a transformative journey that challenges you and encourages you to think critically, tapping into new media and emerging technologies to unlock and support your creative process.
As you progress through your studies, you’ll be guided by a team of academics and technicians who are active fashion image-makers, and benefit from the expertise of key leading industry creatives.
With a 60-year legacy and a string of successful alumni to its name, our BA (Hons) Film Production degree course at UCA Farnham is known for moving with the times to stay at the forefront of industry practice.
With an enviable location — close to a host of high-profile production hubs — and industry-standard facilities, as well as associations with the BFI and ARRI, this degree is well placed to give you the breadth of skills and connections you need to thrive beyond graduation.
Learning from a staff team that includes international filmmaking award winners, picture editors, sound post-production professionals, development producers, cinematographers, screenwriters, fiction and factual directors, and editors, you’ll explore all aspects of filmmaking to help you identify the career path that suits you best and find your own filmmaking voice.
You’ll also be able to build a wider portfolio of knowledge and experience through a series of exciting elective units that include animation, music, and acting.
Diversity of people and art practice is celebrated and vital in our BA (Hons) Fine Art degree at UCA Canterbury, where you will be supported to become the artist you want to be.
With a high level of individual support and extensive facilities, you will enjoy a bespoke learning experience.
You’ll develop independence in both your thinking and working, come to understand what it means to be creative in relation to your own interests, and learn how to communicate your practice.
Fine Art at Canterbury is well established.
There is easy access to both London and Europe, and our international team of staff with world-leading practices and reputations will support, nurture, and encourage you as you create work that matters.
Learn about yourself, explore your passions, and connect them to your art in our close-knit and collaborative BA (Hons) Fine Art degree at UCA Farnham.
The course is all about connecting personal passion, ideas, and a broad range of skills to help you become an artist who can exhibit work with confidence and build an exciting professional career in any of a wide range of fields, from full-time artist to art therapist, to curator.
Professional opportunities are embedded throughout the course, including organising a local art festival, entering local, national and international competitions, and sharing your art externally.
You’ll identify, plan, and prepare for life beyond graduation.
And you’ll be taught – with plenty of one-to-one contact – by an academic team who are actively practising in industry.
Most of all, you’ll be challenged to learn new things, investigate your own practice, see the world differently, and make mistakes.
This is your home to grow creatively.
Bring your designs to life, give them character through movement and expression, and learn the fundamentals of animation on our specialised BA (Hons) Games Animation degree at UCA Farnham.
This dedicated course allows you to really delve deep into the technical and creative elements of animation for video games, while offering in-depth training as a 3D artist and designer.
With our extensive facilities, including motion capture technology and VR capabilities, you’ll be able to animate and develop expressive characters who move and show feeling just the way you want them to.
On this course, you'll get the best of both worlds, learning technical skills and 3D modelling for games, together with the key principles of animation.
So, whether you want to be an animator, a motion capture expert, or work in VFX, this course is ideal for you.
Is your imagination bursting with concepts for new worlds and characters?
Then our practice-based BA (Hons) Games Arts degree course at UCA Farnham could be for you.
This course, located in a certified Games School, focuses on workflows for 2D concept and 3D art for video games.
You’ll develop skills in 3D modelling and texturing and connect them with your drawing skills to create pro-level games assets, like characters, environments and props which make your favourite games come to life.
You’ll develop your skills using world-class facilities, with high-end hardware, plus the latest software and games engines.
You’ll also benefit from opportunities to collaborate with students on our other games courses and make the most of our exceptional industry links to brands like Rebellion, SEGA, Creative Assembly, and Supermassive Games.
By the time you graduate, you’ll be ready to launch a career in the industry, whether in the UK or abroad.
Learn how to shape and enhance a player's gaming experience and fully develop exciting ideas on our holistic BA (Hons) Games Design degree course at UCA Farnham.
The role of the games designer is central to the development of any game – it's designers that create the rules, systems and mechanics that form the centre of any gaming experience.
You’ll learn to prototype games using games engines, develop design documentation, conduct research, and create experiences.
This course is all about developing your ideas, nurturing your creativity, and giving you the skills to make your concepts a reality.
You’ll be supported along the way by a team of lecturers with a wealth of industry experience at AAA games studios, and, since the course is aligned to the most prestigious developers and publishers, you’ll be fully prepared to start your career right after graduation.
Begin your journey towards becoming a developer who can specialise in the growth areas of the games industry, on our BSc (Hons) Games Development degree course at UCA Farnham.
Our Games Development degree focuses on creativity in the realm of gameplay programming and prepares you to take a central role among artists, designers, and programming teams.
You'll learn programming to develop gameplay mechanics using game engines and have the opportunity to become a skilled technical artist as you optimise the look of characters and environments.
In your first year, you’ll learn the fundamentals of programming, becoming fluent in the most relevant programming languages in the industry today, before becoming adept at programming for gameplay all within the context of game engines.
Then, in the second year, you’ll learn technical art using specialist tools and focus in on your personal and professional interests.
In your last year, you’ll undertake a final project that aligns with the kind of developer you want to be.
The skills you learn here will prepare you for an exciting career in the games industry – and can help make you one of the most sought-after members of any company’s team.
Exploring traditional practice while future-proofing your skills is what our BA (Hons) Graphic Design degree course at UCA Farnham is all about.
We’ll get you ready for the careers and opportunities of tomorrow, while giving you the space to embark on a personal creative journey.
The design industry is changing faster than ever, not least because of the emergence of AI, so it’s important you get the time and support to work out where you want to be.
We’ll coach you to mix old and new technologies and to experiment with confidence, give you a comprehensive foundation of graphic and UX design skills, and provide opportunities to fully explore your craft on exciting live briefs with partner organisations of all sizes.
With a fantastic student-to-staff ratio, you’ll feel supported and guided throughout by our expert team, and our newly refurbished studios will provide all the necessary facilities for you to fulfil your potential.
Playfully creative.
Experimental.
Commercially relevant.
These are all ways to describe our exciting BA (Hons) Illustration degree course at UCA Farnham.
This Illustration course has a strong sense of purpose – we want you to test what the language of illustration means to today’s audiences, make (and learn from) mistakes, research and generate ideas, and learn how to be entrepreneurial.
By placing experimentation and play at the forefront of what you'll do, you'll be challenged to take risks with your work, try new ways of working and be adventurous.
When you study illustration at UCA you'll get to work on exciting projects that are a combination of client-focused live briefs and external competitions with partners.
This includes leading restaurant chains, hotels, magazines and local and multinational businesses.
You'll also be given the opportunity to present your portfolio to illustration agencies, design houses, and art directors.
Everything on this course is practice-based, with theory, context, and research built in.
Based in our creative studio, you’ll be part of an amazing community, where staff – who are all practising illustrators and artists – will push you to be the best you can possibly be.
An Interior Design degree is about more than making spaces look good; it’s about understanding context, identity and experience.
Whether you're responding to the architecture of a building or reflecting a brand’s personality, interior design is shaped by the stories spaces tell.
The BA Interior Design course at our Canterbury university campus takes a people-centred approach to design.
You'll explore how interiors shape everyday life and how they can become more thoughtful, responsive and imaginative.
By looking at how people feel, behave and connect within space, you'll uncover how design can make those interactions richer and more meaningful.
You’ll explore about how design responds to social, cultural and environmental issues throughout this Interior Design course.
It will also give you an understanding of how interiors of personal and public spaces shape different experiences.
For instance, you'll discover how design fosters comfort and meaning in the home, and learn to shape interaction and identity in shared environments like workplaces and community settings.
You’ll learn through a mix of studio teaching, tutorials, workshops and critiques.
Our team of experienced academics and technical staff with backgrounds in commercial, retail and cultural design are on hand to support you throughout your degree.
Our studio culture encourages collaboration, dialogue and experimentation, making UCA a place where you can test ideas, learn from your peers and find your voice as a designer.
Studying Interior Design in the UK offers a unique perspective grounded in design heritage, innovation and cultural diversity.
We promote a creative and inclusive community at UCA Canterbury, welcoming students from all around the world.
Being part of our global community will deepen your understanding of how Interior Design adapts across cultures, places and people.
When you complete your BA Interior Design course you'll be graduating with a professional portfolio.
It will reflect your skills and creative identity and ensure you're ready to take on professional opportunities, further study or your own design path.
Offering you the time and encouragement to learn how to design and make using a range of techniques, and a place within a tight-knit community of makers, our BA (Hons) Jewellery & Silversmithing degree course at UCA Farnham is ideal preparation for a professional life in the industry.
You’ll have fantastic access to world-class facilities that are central to our teaching and learning.
You can also explore a wide range of other materials and processes in our workshops, including ceramics, wood, and glass.
Our teaching team comprises active practitioners who are highly regarded in their fields, so you’ll have the best guides for your study.
On this workshop-based course you can expect to learn through making and be taught traditional technical skills that go hand-in-hand with material innovation and experimentation.
You’ll also learn to present and promote your work, to communicate with confidence, and plan for future employment.
With an enviable location in the World Craft Town of Farnham, and with the world’s only Crafts Study Centre on campus, you’ll find UCA is a special and friendly place to study this fascinating subject.
This degree has been designed for make-up and hair professionals by make-up and hair professionals, with an emphasis on work in the fashion industry, including for editorial, advertorial, and moving image.
Make-up and hair artists are key to the creation of impactful fashion images.
If you are ambitious, drawn to the medium, and keen to express yourself and experiment, then this is the course for you.
You’ll learn about the history of fashion and cosmetics and their relevance to today’s discourse in fashion image-making.
You’ll meet with industry professionals and learn about make-up, skincare, and beauty products, and how to use these in artistic and unconventional ways.
Equal weight is given to hair and make-up skills, giving you the scope to create head pieces, as well as master airbrushing and body paint techniques.
You’ll learn how to generate ideas and develop a creative project from conception to delivery, engaging with topics that reflect your individual voice while pushing boundaries through experimentation.
Throughout the course, you’ll be taught by academics and technicians who are active in the industry, and you’ll collaborate on exciting projects with students from other fashion image courses.
Our BA (Hons) Modelmaking degree course for makers who are also storytellers – those who believe that detail matters.
On it, you’ll master the craft of translating ideas into reality, making models to inspire and tell stories.
Welcomed into a design community at UCA Canterbury that has an 80-year history of modelmaking for architecture, visual effects, film, TV, and product design, you’ll collaborate with product, spatial, interior, and architectural designers as you study, developing a much broader set of skills than you’d gain from many similar courses.
Using our extensive design and making facilities to create your models, you’ll learn to embrace design as a process and be open to the exciting discoveries that can sometimes emerge from mistakes and failed experiments.
Of course, impressive outcomes are always welcome, but if you’re also interested in the development and making processes themselves, then this course may well be for you.
Once you’ve graduated, the world’s your oyster – you could choose a career path in set or props design for theatre or film, VFX, architectural, product, or automotive modelling.
Our BA (Hons) Music & Sound Production degree course at UCA Farnham will give you the skills to thrive as a music producer in today’s industry, equipping you to stretch beyond just working with musicians in a studio, or programming beats.
You’ll learn how to produce music and sound in a variety of genres, but you’ll also learn how to operate a recording studio environment, use multiple Digital Audio Workstations for music production and performance (Ableton), record, mix and master (Logic Pro), deliver sound editing and design projects (Pro Tools), and design a unique and fully functional digital sampler instrument.
As part of UCA Farnham’s vibrant creative community, you’ll collaborate with fellow students across film and television, and animation and acting, to work on exciting projects throughout your studies.
You’ll also respond to professional briefs and build a portfolio that suits your career ambitions to ensure you graduate ready for the industry.
If you have your sights set on working in the creative, innovative, and fast-moving music industry, then our BA (Hons) Music Business & Management degree course at UCA Epsom, is for you.
As well as getting an overview of music business management, you will have the chance to explore your own areas of interest.
You'll graduate from this music management degree with the skills you need to thrive in this increasingly global sector.
Whether you picture yourself working in record company management, music marketing, talent scouting and development, artist management, or live music, this course will give you everything you need to achieve your goals, including expertise in merchandising, e-commerce, social media marketing, branding, management, and promotion.
You’ll benefit from our excellent facilities and impressive array of industry contacts, ensuring you graduate with the knowledge, skills, and professional network you need to make your mark in the music industry, whether in the UK or beyond.
Photography can manifest itself in so many ways, and that makes it one of the most accessible creative mediums.
Our BA (Hons) Photography degree at UCA Farnham allows you to take your existing skills and develop them into professional practice.
Our close-knit course means you’ll get plenty of time with the team of expert staff who will guide you through your learning.
You’ll get to collaborate with people on other courses, too – sharing some lectures with our Fine Art students to broaden your horizons and start inspiring conversations.
Professional experience is written into the course throughout, and you’ll get chances to gain exposure for your work through competitions and other live projects – for example, our second-year students recently worked on a project with the National Portrait Gallery.
And we have all the facilities and software you’d expect for a top-level photography course, including Capture One software, in our dedicated post-production suite.
So, whether you want to become a commercial photographer, photo agent, curator, or picture editor, this course will give you everything you need.
The BA Product Design degree at UCA Canterbury develops your creative practice through hands-on making, critical thinking and design insight.
Whether you're interested in bespoke furniture design, creating meaningful everyday objects or future-facing products, our Product Design course will help you build the skills and confidence needed to turn your ideas into reality.
Product Design is about more than the object itself.
It's about understanding how the object fits into the bigger picture when considering environment, technology, sustainability, cost, and value.
We'll encourage you to think about the lifecycle and impact of your work from day one of your Product Design degree.
The course will also give you the opportunity to explore how products shape - and are shaped - by the people who use them.
You'll learn how to identify needs and gaps in the market through research and testing.
Then, you'll explore how to respond with thoughtful, innovative solutions.
You’ll also collaborate with students from other design degrees.
This will help you understand how products live within interior and architectural contexts.
Our academic and technical staff are experienced designers and makers and are on-hand to support you throughout your time at university.
You'll have access to extensive workshop facilities for wood, metal, plastics and digital fabrication, ensuring you can explore both traditional and modern design processes.
Whether you're aiming to enter the industry, start your own practice, or continue your studies, this Product Design course will give you the skills needed to thrive in the fast-paced world of design.
Please note, the title of this course has been updated for 2025 entry and the course has previously been titled BA (Hons) Product & Furniture Design.
Our Studio Practice top-up course in Fashion Design at UCA Epsom will give you a fantastic fast-paced introduction to university education, and prepare you for a postgraduate fashion course.
Ideal for international students and also suitable to UK students looking to build upon existing qualifications, this course is aligned with the final year of BA (Hons) Fashion Design , so you can progress to a Master's in a streamlined way, and  provides the perfect opportunity for you to realise your 2D design sketches into 3D creations that show you at your best.
You'll get right into the action from the start, undertaking research and practical projects, working on collaborative activities, building your portfolio skills, knowledge and confidence.
UCA’s one-year BA (Hons) Studio Practice degree course in Fashion Image & Styling is the ideal way to boost your existing qualifications or prepare for postgraduate study.
Taught at UCA’s Epsom campus, this course is essentially the final year of our three-year degree and will prepare you to engage at all levels of the global style business, from high street retail through to luxury brands.
And, as it sits with and is closely aligned to both BA (Hons) Fashion Photography and BA (Hons) Make-Up & Hair Design , you’ll be able to work collaboratively on shoots and other projects.
Taught by a range specialist academics and experienced industry professionals, you’ll have gain insight into industry commissions, professional roles, and have a chance to hear from industry leaders.
You’ll also be able to develop, refine and contextualise your own work in relation to diverse industry outputs and working models.
As well as developing highly specialist skills for fashion stylists and image makers, you’ll gain a wealth of transferable skills, too, including research skills, critical reflection, ethical judgement, cultural knowledge, communication skills, teamwork and project management.
UCA's Studio Practice top-up course in Filmmaking at UCA Farnham aims to provide a challenging educational experience and prepare you for postgraduate study in the field.
Working in moving image is a social practice, and you'll be encouraged to consider your work in terms of contemporary meaning and relevance.
You will be able to explore both documentary and fiction-based storytelling.
Alongside group activities, you will undertake independent study and research which, together with broader transferable skills, will set you up for your chosen career path, and for further study.
We expect you to come to the course with existing skills that you want to develop.
Your practical work will be complemented by the theoretical knowledge you'll develop, and you'll have the opportunity to work on significant practical and writing projects.
You will also be encouraged to set out your career pathway and identify the resources you'll need to achieve your goals.
UCA'S one-year BA (Hons) Studio Practice top-up degree in Fine Art provides you with the opportunity to bring together your thinking and developing ideas with the aim of consolidating your contemporary artistic practice.
This course allows you to devise and follow your own individual work program in the guise of a Final Major Project, where you demonstrate your professional attitude and commitment, capacity for self-evaluation and effective synthesis of your ideas.
In the first half of the year, you will be asked to develop a body of research and practice in order to generate a critical piece of writing that begins to articulate key themes and directions of interest as well as a look forward to the work you want to make and how you will develop these ideas for the final major project.
The second half of the year involves the production of a major project which is exhibited as a final Degree Show and Portfolio that you will take from the course to form the basis of your professional body of work as newly graduated and as an emerging Fine Artist.
Across the course you'll also have access to professional practice seminars and guidance to help you create your portfolio in preparation for graduation.
Our Studio Practice top-up course in Games at UCA Farnham will give you the chance to gain all the skills you need to progress to postgraduate study.
Ideal for international students and also suitable to UK students looking to build upon existing qualifications, this course is aligned with Year 3 of our BA and BSc Games courses, so you can progress to a Master's degree in a streamlined way.
You'll get right into the action from the start, undertaking research and practical projects, working on collaborative activities and building your skills, knowledge and confidence.
Our Studio Practice top-up course in Graphic Design at UCA Farnham will give you the chance to gain all the skills you need to progress to postgraduate study and boost your existing qualifications.
Ideal for international students and also suitable to UK students looking to build upon existing qualifications, this course is aligned with Year 3 of BA (Hons) Graphic Design , so you can progress to a Master's degree in a streamlined way.
You'll get right into the action from the start, undertaking research and practical projects, working on collaborative activities and building your skills, knowledge and confidence.
Our Studio Practice top-up course in Illustration at UCA Farnham will give you the chance to gain all the skills you need to progress to postgraduate study and boost existing qualifications.
Ideal for international students and also suitable to UK students looking to build upon existing qualifications, this course is aligned with the final year of BA (Hons) Illustration , so you can progress to a Master's in a streamlined way.
You'll get right into the action from the start, undertaking research and practical projects , working on collaborative activities and building your skills, knowledge and confidence.
Our Studio Practice top-up course in Interior Design at UCA Canterbury will give you the chance to gain all the skills you need to progress to postgraduate study and boost your knowledge and experience.
Ideal for international students and also suitable to UK students looking to build upon existing qualifications, this course is aligned with the final year of BA (Hons) Interior Design , enabling you to progress to a Master's course in a streamlined way.
Our BA (Hons) Studio Practice top-up degree in Make-Up & Hair Design at UCA Epsom is an opportunity to bolster your existing skills and/or prepare for postgraduate study in this niche field of the fashion industry.
In taking this course – which follows the third year of our BA (Hons) Make-Up & Hair Design degree, you’ll be required to develop and expand your skills, responding to developments of technology and engaging in relevant cultural conversations.
Your understanding of make-up and hair for fashion will expand to encompass issues of diversity, sustainability and competing models of modernity and their application to different industries including, but not limited to, fashion.
It will both synthesise your learning and focus on your area of specialisation.
During your studies you’ll have the chance to collaborate with students across our fashion and textiles courses, working on photoshoots and projects.
You’ll be taught by our experienced team of academic and technical experts and have access to a range of facilities to help you achieve your creative vision.
Our Studio Practice top-up course in Product Design at UCA Canterbury will give you all the skills you need to progress to postgraduate study in the UK.
Designed for international students, the course is aligned with the final year of BA (Hons) Product Design , so you can progress to a Master's degree in a streamlined way.
Please note, the title of this course has been updated for 2025 entry and the course has previously been titled BA (Hons) Studio Practice (Product & Furniture Design).
Our Studio Practice top-up course in Visual Communication at UCA Canterbury will give you the chance to gain all the skills you need to progress to postgraduate study and boost your knowledge and experience.
Ideal for international students and also suitable to UK students looking to build upon existing qualifications, this course is aligned with the final year of our BA (Hons) Visual Communication degree , so you can progress to a Master's degree in a streamlined way.
Want to learn about working in television, while still being in the thick of the real-life action?
Then our BA (Hons) Television Production degree is for you.
Our course is unique, in that it’s the only one in the country where you get to study within the complex of a working TV studio – Maidstone Television Studios.
Not only will you learn about various roles within the television industry, but you’ll also develop the skills to become an expert storyteller.
Graduates typically leave with three to four credits on professional shows aired by the UK's leading broadcasters.
Previous opportunities have involved working on FIFA eSports, This Time with Alan Partridge, Family Fortunes, and Jools Holland’s Hootenanny.
You’ll do all of this as part of a small, close-knit group of students, working alongside our knowledgeable and supportive staff, with everything you need to thrive and make life-long personal and career connections.
We offer a shuttle bus service for students travelling between accommodation in Canterbury, and Maidstone Television Studios.
More information about this will be provided to applicants later this year.
Learn how to design sustainably and make mindfully on our specialist BA (Hons) Textiles degree course at UCA Epsom.
Our course is one of the few in the country to teach a combination of specialist textile subjects such as natural eco dyes and printing, sustainable material making, and 3D constructed techniques.
With a strong focus on sustainability, and with consumer interest in this area growing rapidly, you’ll graduate with the in-demand skills employers are seeking.
This course will inspire you to build on your drive to design and make sustainable textiles for art, architecture, fashion, interiors, lifestyle, and luxury.
We look forward to working with you to develop your passion for designing, making, and experimenting with textiles and materials.
Our BA (Hons) Visual Communication degree at UCA Canterbury combines the best of graphic design, illustration, animation, photography, and moving image to help you develop a broad range of vital skills for a career in communication media.
This Visual Communication course is all about helping you to think about the bigger picture when communicating any message – you may wish to illustrate a book, for example, but you will also need to consider the accompanying website, social media account, and advertising campaign.
Developing a deep understanding of all forms of visual communication media will enable you to appreciate the various roles each discipline can take within any given project.
During your studies, you’ll be able to specialise in various areas of visual communication — the first of which you’ll choose in your second term — with tutorial guidance and advice.
Our expert staff will be there along the way to ensure you can create with confidence, but you’ll be the master of your own destiny, growing in confidence and preparing fully for life after graduation .

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/ask-uca:
You can also chat to a student to find out more about studying and student life at UCA.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ba-television-production:
Learn on-site at Maidstone TV Studios
Unique in terms of industry experience – you could leave with 4 or 5 credits
BAFTA albert Education Partnership member
Available in Clearing
Apply now start your creative journey at UCA this September.
Call: 01252 918 240 Apply online
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our BA (Hons) Television Production degree:
Our standard three year undergraduate degree for those who meet the entry requirements for higher education.
112 UCAS points International equivalent qualifications
A four year degree programme, including a foundation year (delivered at our Farnham Campus) to help develop your creativity before you embark on year one of the degree (at Maidtone Studios).
UK: 32 UCAS points International / EU: 12 years of schooling (with good grades)
A four year programme, which sees you spend an entire year gaining valuable industry experience prior to your final year of study.
A five year course, including a foundation year (at UCA Farnham) to help develop your creativity before you embark on year one of the degree (at Maidstone Studios), and a year on a professional placement gaining valuable industry experience prior to your final year of study.
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Television Production students may be interested in.
ScreenSkills Select endorses and enhances courses at colleges and universities in the film, TV, animation, VFX and games sectors which develop industry-ready students.
Founded in 2011, albert supports the global Film and TV industry to reduce the environmental impacts of production and to create content that supports a vision for a sustainable future.
The BFI is a charity and the UK’s leading organisation for film and moving image.
It promotes and supports British film from newcomers to established makers, and cares for the BFI National Archive, the world’s largest film and television archive.
ARRI is a leading designer and manufacturer of camera and lighting systems for the film, broadcast, and media industries.
The ARRI Certified Film School accreditation is awarded to institutions that meet rigorous standards of technical excellence, creative education, and professional development.
Television Production at Maidstone Studios
Maidstone Studios Facilities Tour
BA (Hons) TV Production Graduate Showreel
The content of the course may be subject to change.
Curriculum content is provided as a guide.
Delivered at UCA Farnham, UCA’s Integrated Foundation Year is designed to give you the skills you’ll need to start your degree in the best possible way – with confidence, solid knowledge of creative practice, study skills and more.
You’ll explore a range of creative techniques and develop your portfolio, with your chosen subject in mind.
We’ll work with you throughout the year to ensure you’re on the right track and give you the tools to achieve your highest potential on your degree.
Find out more about the Integrated Foundation Year
You will study the following core units:
Launch This intensive production primer exposes you to a fast turn-around experience that mirrors many TV industry environments.
Accentuating collaborative skills, it will test your flexibility and resilience as you respond in small groups to a prescribed commissioning target and changing external conditions.
At the end of the week, teams will pitch their outcomes for the chance of winning the hypothetical commission.
Screen Stories You’ll be introduced to the fundamental structure, tropes and mechanisms that are common to human stories and that influence the content we watch.
Expressed through enquiry into diverse global examples, you will interrogate your response to these narratives, arriving at a clearer sense of your own dramatic voice, while applying screenwriting craft for yourself.
By researching ideas, developing them into a defined story concept and expanding this into an original short screenplay, you will examine the process through your own writing.
Equality Diversity and Inclusion The unit provides an opportunity for you to explore what is meant by equality, diversity, and inclusion and the implications of these concepts for creative practice.
It will equip you to understand how our social identities (such as, gender, race/ethnicity, class, disability, sexual orientation, and religion) contribute to the inclusion and/or exclusion of individuals in creative spaces.
Digital News You will be introduced to the role of the media and its influence on the narratives we develop for understanding our social world, taking perspectives on the future, and the importance of journalistic storytelling.
You’ll be required to research, plan and produce a short news or current affairs item for multi-platform transmission.
Working as a group, you will write, visualise and strategise your production, taking into account the demands of broadcasters, expectations of global audiences, landscape of regulatory compliance and technicalities of distribution.
Opportunity Week – Aspirations Opportunity Week introduces ATOM Activities – see below - while challenging students to research a career path and route to industry that may guide their forward journey.
Using your findings, and the findings of your peers, you’ll build a career map that expands your awareness of available careers across activities such as scripted and unscripted, craft and technical, editorial and production, sales and exhibition.
Script to Screen Building on the experience of the Screen Stories unit, you’ll now focus on the interpretive and collaborative skills required to translate script to screen.
Adopting one or more significant head-of-department roles, you will contribute to the realisation of a longer, more detailed dramatic short film from an existing screenplay.
Directing, cinematography, production and sound design, casting, editing, effective planning and working to a tight schedule will be critical to the project.
Unscripted: Factual Entertainment Factual entertainment is a broad category that has emerged to command huge global appeal, with successful formats traded and remade the world over.
You’ll be challenged to research and devise a high-concept, unscripted proposal in response to a commissioner brief.
This calls for ideas that grab attention in the broadcast schedule but also cut through on streaming platforms.
It is an opportunity to think outside the box and invent the next genre-busting format that reflects contemporary concerns of large sections of the population in enlightening, entertaining and accessible ways.
Personal story You’ll reflect on your first-year achievements, recalibrate ambitions for industry and set the targets that will help to achieve them.
You’ll develop an online showcase for your individual aptitudes and experiences and be supported to devise a Personal Development Plan that clarifies your way forward.
Together, these two elements comprise your Personalised Learning Experience (PLE) digital outcome.
ATOM Activities ATOM activities are tiny pieces of individual learning that facilitate interdisciplinary exposure across the university.
Collectively they form a small fraction of your curriculum that is determined through your own personal choice and interest.
Launch To launch Year 2, you’ll share the result of your summer projects and be tasked to choose one of several exploratory mini briefs.
Here you will flex your production skills in unique and experimental ways before screening the outcomes in a course-wide event at the end of the week.
Documentary You’ll develop and create a short film documentary.
The unit calls for an understanding of producer, client and audience expectations, and the ability to represent complex factual ideas in an engaging manner.
Key skills will be required, including research and interview techniques, shooting strategies, storytelling and scripting for factual programme making.
In the process you will develop your teamwork, research, political and aesthetic awareness, critical analysis of audiences, consideration of on and off-screen representation, presentation skills, promotion, and enterprise.
The Conscious Practitioner This unit aims to promote progressive values and attitudes to diversity and inclusion in creative practice.
You will have the opportunity to explore global perspectives and influences on creative practice, drawing upon interactions with varied identities, cultures, politics, and histories.
The unit will explore how beliefs, values and attitudes drive behaviour and practices.
You will reflect on the development of their own creative influences, perspectives, practices, and sense of belonging as developing creative professionals in global and contemporary spaces.
Live Production Live and ‘as live’ production is a cornerstone of commercial television output.
This unit challenges you to develop a detailed pitch for a live studio pilot.
A commissioning panel will then ‘green-light’ the idea considered to have the greatest potential, before a creative team is formed from across the cohort to develop the concept through to live stream and record.
The unit provides opportunities for cross-course and external collaboration with other media related disciplines.
For example, set and costume design, make-up and hair, music and graphics all contribute to the outcome.
This collaboration promotes negotiation and creative teamwork that simulates the interdisciplinary character of professional production.
Opportunity Week This opportunity week gives you the chance to discover and explore a new aspect of production and the skills required within the specialism.
Including masterclasses and guided research you will undertake personal development within a specific field of expertise.
Professional Story Building on the Personal Story unit at the end of year 1, this unit extends your early career research into the world of professional employment.
You’ll undertake a short work placement, internship, or client brief, and using these experiences complete a work experience report, and update your online presence.
Your revised showcase will evidence your PLE Digital Outcome, refining your ambition and redefining your offer to industry ahead of your final year.
ATOM Activities This unit is an extension of your Year 1 ATOM Activities.
PLE Digital Outcomes You’ll build your industry community and professional networking footprint, creating a digital folder evidencing that you are actively engaging in sustainable professional development.
You’ll showcase current and newly established professional networks and identify common interests.
You will study two of the following elective units across the year.
The following electives are available at Maidstone TV Studios:
You can also choose from the following electives offered at our Farnham campus:
If you opt to complete a professional practice year, this will take place in year three.
You will undertake a placement within the creative industries to further develop your skills and CV.
While on your Professional Practice Year, you will be required to pay a reduced tuition fee for that year.
This fee will be determined using government funding regulations.
Based on current regulations, we expect this to be a maximum of 20% of the tuition fee rate that you are charged for your second year of study.
You will also incur additional travel and accommodation costs during this year.
The University will provide you with further advice and guidance about this as you approach your Professional Practice Year.
Please note: If you are an international applicant, you will need to enrol onto the course ‘with Professional Practice Year’.
It will not be possible to transfer onto the Professional Practice Year after enrolment
Shared across the School of Film, Media and Performing Arts, this week consists of a series of interdisciplinary seminars, screenings and workshops and focuses on ground-breaking creative work that has surprised, shocked, and changed the way we view the world.
You’ll specifically be preparing a presentation/screening event at the end of the week, which provides the platform for outcomes from Year 1 and 2 launch weeks.
This will include management of the venue, audio/visual technology and awards.
You’ll explore a research topic that is meaningful to your final year practice, and you’ll present it in the form of a structured written argument, a video essay/ presentation or research project targeted at informing the development of your practice.
This unit challenges you to focus your practice through the development of a viable production concept that can either stand alone as a development project or be taken into production through the subsequent units.
At the end, you’ll pitch your project to a Development Executive and receive professional feedback.
The outcome will be a production bible that demonstrates consideration of all necessary creative and logistical variables.
Your final Opportunity Week is a moment to project ahead to graduate destinations, building on the career-focused experiences of the course to consider the professional self once more.
Having created an original concept and witnessed the pitching others, you now have the choice to either prepare your own development concept for production in the next unit, or join a preproduction project that is in need of your skills.
Whichever you choose you’ll work on a detailed pre-production package appropriate to your chosen role that demonstrates your readiness for the task.
This final unit brings together all the creative and critical experiences of the course, challenging you to demonstrate innovative and sophisticated engagement with a suitably ambitious major project.
Working individually or in teams, you’ll produce a highly refined and professional outcome that is ready for distribution to a defined audience - managing the project, developing and deploying advanced creative methodologies and production skills appropriate to your role/s.
This course is designed to offer you (if eligible) the opportunity to study part of your degree aboard at a UCA partner university, while still earning credits towards your UCA degree.
For more information please visit the Study Abroad section
Integrated foundation year
Year one
Year two
Year three
Professional practice or International year
Please note, these details are for 2025 entry and could be subject to change for other years of entry.
Please note, syllabus content indicated is provided as a guide.
The content of the course may be subject to change in line with our Student Terms and Conditions for example, as required by external professional bodies or to improve the quality of the course.
If you opt to study the Professional Practice Year, for 2025 you will be required to pay a reduced tuition fee of £1,900.
You will also incur additional travel and accommodation costs during your Professional Practice year.
The University will provide you with further advice and guidance about this.
If you opt to study the Professional Practice Year, for 2025 you will be required to pay a reduced tuition fee of £3,390.
Please note: The fees listed on this webpage are correct for the stated academic year only, for details of previous years please see the full fee schedules .
At UCA we have a number of scholarships and fee discounts available to assist you with the cost of your studies.
There are lots of ways you can access additional financial support to help you fund your studies - both from UCA and from external sources.
Discover what support you might qualify for please see our financial support information.
In addition to the tuition fees there may be other costs for your course.
The things that you are likely to need to budget for to get the most out of a creative arts education will include books, printing costs, occasional or optional study trips and/or project materials.
These costs will vary according to the nature of your project work and the individual choices that you make.
Please see the Additional Course Costs section of the Course Information Document for more details of the costs you may incur.
Find out what's included in your tuition fees.
You’ll be taught at Maidstone TV Studios with access to a dedicated baseroom, equipment store, specialist digital suites, green screen studio and sound recording booth.
Maidstone Studios is one of the largest independent TV studios in the country, providing you with access to state-of the art facilities and hands-on experience on professional productions.
Television Production students are immersed in the professional world from the moment they walk through the doors of our course.
Situated within one of leading television and media studios in the UK, our course offers you the chance to learn and work alongside some top film and television professionals on a daily basis.
Assisted by our dedicated work-placement coordinator, you'll be offered numerous hands-on work experience opportunities on the professional productions made at the studios and with external companies, which in the past have included:
The course is taught by a number of film and television professionals with extensive industry experience, covering all genres and formats.
It includes screenwriters, directors, producers, editors and camera persons, covering work for the BBC, ITV, Channel 4, Sky, Discovery, Film4, Channel 5 and numerous independents.
90% of our graduates are now working in the creative media industry for a number of leading organisations, including:
Students who graduate from this course can go on to set up their own production companies, or work in roles such as:
You may also like to consider further study at postgraduate level .
It’s a national New Year’s institution – the Jools Holland Annual Hootenanny – and this year UCA students were in the thick of it!
"The course is highly creative and there is never a wrong idea – it’s all about developing that idea into something watchable.
It’s been an incredible journey that I’ll always look back on with a positive outlook."
Wesley Denne
We’ll need to see your portfolio for this course.
You don’t need to have previous experience of video making, but we do want to see evidence of creativity and original thinking.
View Television Production portfolio advice
The standard entry requirements* for these courses are one of the following:
The standard entry requirements* for foundation year entry are one of the following:
*We occasionally make offers which are lower than the standard entry criteria, to students who have faced difficulties that have affected their performance and who were expected to achieve higher results.
We consider the strength of our applicants’ portfolios, as well as their grades -  in these cases, a strong portfolio is especially important.
Programme Director and Senior Lecturer, Television Production
Work Placement and Production Coordinator
Senior Lecturer in Television Production
Senior Lecturer in Television Production (Theory)
Technical Tutor
Campus: Maidstone TV Studios
Hollie Gregory & Lewis Yates, BA (Hons) Television Production, Maidstone Studios
Katie Doe & George Walters, BA (Hons) Television Production, Maidstone Studios
Ellie Beckett, BA (Hons) Television Production, Maidstone Studios
Behind the Scenes, BA (Hons) Television Production, Maidstone Studios
Ryan Perry, BA (Hons) Television Production, Maidstone Studios
Dana Ben, BA (Hons) Television Production, Maidstone Studios
Layla O'Callaghan, BA (Hons) Television Production, Maidstone Studios
Rose Reber, Anouk Jansen, Joey Main, BA (Hons) Television Production
Group Work, BA (Hons) Television Production, Maidstone Studios
Will Crump, BA (Hons) Television Production, Maidstone Studios

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ba-graphic-design-farnham:
Work on exciting briefs from big names including ITV Daytime and Ogilvy
Gain the skills and confidence to become a unique practitioner within the industry
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our BA (Hons) Graphic Design degree:
A four year degree programme, including a foundation year to help develop your creativity before you embark on year one of a degree.
A five year course, including a foundation year to help develop your creativity before you embark on year one of a degree, and a year on a professional placement gaining valuable industry experience prior to your final year of study.
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Graphic Design students may be interested in.
The World Design Organization (WDO) is a global network of almost 200 members.
It is an international non-governmental organisation that promotes the profession of design and its ability to generate better products, systems, services, and experiences; better business and industry; and ultimately a better environment and society.
Graphic Design talk with Tom Northey
Design graduate Michael Tilley discusses his journey to running a creative business
UCA’s Integrated Foundation Year is designed to give you the skills you’ll need to start your degree in the best possible way – with confidence, solid knowledge of creative practice, study skills and more.
Launch The launch week is intended to be a community-led programme that brings together students from across the course – you’ll take part in peer bonding sessions, research trips, design sprint exercises and talks.
Design Concepts You’ll explore graphic experimentation, with emphasis placed firmly on communication.
It focuses on the practical use of graphic principles as a means of conveying information across a variety of outcomes and media types and formats.
Equality, Diversity and Inclusion 1 As visual practitioners, we are responsible for the socio-political make-up of our lives and the lives of others.
You’ll think critically about how our worlds are created, and how they work together within relationships, communities, and collectives.
Typographic Studies 01 You’ll focus on the investigation, testing and application of the guiding principles and processes associated with Graphic Design, with three main focal points – typography, creative methodology and the overarching principles of visual communication.
Opportunity Opportunity Week is a Hackathon - an opportunity for students to work across year groups to produce and replicate industry practice.
You’ll undertake a live brief set by industry, collaborate with students from other courses, and present your results at the end.
Design Thinking You’ll further develop your understanding of principles within a broad range of graphic design outcomes, with increasing depth of enquiry and knowledge of contemporary visual communication methods and processes.
You’ll explore the use of narrative through multiple outcomes to encourage applied testing of consistent and dynamic graphic language.
Design, Creativity and Innovation There are massive-scale problems and opportunities in the world.
As designers, we approach these challenges with the aim of developing critical and meaningful ways to articulate and build cultural change.
You’ll be asked to translate abstract issues into tangible design proposals, grounding projects in real-world social, cultural, technological, and economic issues.
The content is concerned with the social, cultural, environmental, and ethical consequences of contemporary life.
Proclamation This unit provides an opportunity to reflect on your activities over the year and present your findings to the wider world.
It will offer time and space to resolve and collate the work you have produced over the year and present it back to the public sphere via publication, exhibition or happening.
Multimodal Approaches to Design One important aim of this degree programme is to view graphic design as a collection of principles, processes, and methodologies.
A key objective of the second year is to explore multimodal approaches to design and relate them to your own practice and to the professional world.
You’ll be encouraged you to reflect on your achievements so far while looking forward into the second half of the course and beyond.
The Conscious Practitioner Visual media form the atmosphere and aesthetics that shape, and determine how we navigate, our worlds.
This means that as visual practitioners, we have a responsibility towards the socio-political make-up of our lives and the lives of others.
You’ll think critically about how our worlds are created, and how we work together within relationships, communities, and collectives, and interrogate visual culture and communication practices from a global perspective.
Typographic Studies 2.0 This unit explores the critical thinking, creative and technical skills you need when working with large amounts of text.
You’ll develop an awareness of the many interpretive possibilities of even simple texts by experimenting with their typographic presentation and configuration, while learning the knowledge and techniques needed for editorial design and exploring the opportunities and challenges of working internationally.
Design for Screen You’ll be introduced to design, narrative and sequence as thematic concepts that can be applied to screen-based outcomes.
You will be asked to consider how visual language, such as words, images, format and structure can support communication.
The unit will also introduce the key principles of graphic identity by asking you to consider the role of a designer in producing digital outcomes.
Building on Identity You’ll explore in greater depth the working world of the professional designer and creative practitioner.
The main aim is to help you prepare for work experience and post-graduation and to give you the opportunity to research the world of current graphic design practice in a range of related industries and associated career paths.
Working in the Creative industries As a practitioner in the creative industries, you will need a thorough knowledge of the sector and the ability to operate within it.
You’ll focus on applying the theoretical knowledge and skills gained in your previous years’ study to the working world, and have opportunities to gain an in-depth understanding of the creative industries.
You also choose one elective unit from the list below:
Impact 2 (Elective) You’ll consider new and responsive ways in which images can and might be used, both now and in future, to deepen engagement, reach users in new and interactive ways, and in so doing broaden the remit of the discipline.
This unit builds on the first year Impact 1 unit.
Typographic Studies 2.0 (Elective) This unit explores the critical thinking, creative and technical skills you need when working with large amounts of text.
Increasingly graphic designers recognise their power and responsibilities in constructing and shaping messages, as well as in transmitting them.
During this unit, you’ll develop an awareness of the many interpretive possibilities of even simple texts by experimenting with their typographic presentation and configuration, while learning the knowledge and techniques needed for editorial design and exploring.
Industry-led competitions You’ll have the opportunity to work on one or more industry-led student competitions – including Red Dot, D&AD, the International Society of Typographic Designers and YCN.
Contextual research As a graphic designer you are not a neutral practitioner – your work responds to and shapes the world around it.
This unit encourages you to interrogate a particular theme or topic, research it, gather material and analyse how it informs your ideas and your design practice.
You’ll develop a position and a perspective in relation to contextual research and theoretical frameworks, and develop a portfolio of contextual research that informs, augments and reflects upon practice.
Final Major Project The Final Major Project gives you the opportunity to demonstrate the fluency of your design and communication skills, and to examine a subject or theme in depth through a self-determined and challenging assignment.
Your Final Major Project will benefit from your increased understanding of theoretical issues developed over the previous few years of study - how these inform and contextualise your practical work, your research skills and your creative/strategic design abilities.
Professional practice or International year (if undertaken)
There are dedicated graphics studios which offer spaces for group tutorials and personal working.
There are campus digital media suites with Macs and PCs with latest programmes for film editing as well as general design work.
Open access printmaking studios with screen printing as well as letterpress facilities, 3D printers and book binding facilities.
There is also a modern library with a wealth of books, journals, special collections and online resources.
Room: Y01
Room: Y02
Room: Y21 A/B/C
Open studios for group workshops and also independent working
Room: Y24
This room contains:
Room: R51/53
Room: R07
Interaction with the industry is fundamental to our degree.
We engage with industry through studio visits, work placements, 'live' projects and tasks either set by or co-authored by industry practitioners, as well as international competitions and collaborations.
Students regularly win D&AD student awards, such as the Yellow Pencil for Best Packaging Design in 2011.
Our connections include:
Graduates from the course have achieved high-profile roles with many leading companies, including:
Our recent graduates have been appointed in areas such as branding, typography, editorial design, graphic design, freelance design, consultancy and brand strategy.
"I loved how broad the work you produce could be.
I’d never have thought I could create what I did during the three years.
The course encouraged me to try new things, embrace my strengths and helped me grow into the designer I wanted to become."
Emma Mills
We’ll need to see your portfolio for this course:
View Graphic Design portfolio advice
Programme Director of Graphic Design
Yr 1 Tutor - BA Graphic Design & Link Tutor ICI/UCA Xiamen, China
Senior Lecturer
Senior Lecturer, Contextual Studies Lead, Graphic Design
Professor of Design Education, Lecturer MA Illustration
Reader in Philosophy & Design

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca:
If you're looking for a fully creative university experience, you've come to the right place: we're one of the UK's top creative universities, entirely dedicated to creative courses.
But we're more than that, too.
On each of our campuses, you'll find a close-knit community of staff and students who are learning together, collaborating, sharing ideas and pushing boundaries to solve real problems.
Together, we create work that changes lives and shifts perspectives.
If that sounds like what you're looking for in a university, then keep reading – this just might be the place for you.
Careers & Professional Practice
Faith and Religion
Life at UCA
Student Services
UCA Students' Union
Guiding you through the application process and preparing your for your studies.
View or download a copy of our Prospectus
View or download our prospectus

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/blogs/bris-murals-are-a-zizzi-success:
UCA students are continuing to make their unique mark on Italian restaurant chain, Zizzi, with yet another branch getting a mural makeover.
13 November 2023
Picture by Tony Buckingham
Bri Chartrand, a third-year UCA Illustration student, has transformed two huge wall spaces on the newly refurbished Maidstone branch of Zizzi, using a select colour palette in a design inspired by the local area.
Bri gained her opportunity after being shortlisted for another competition run by the chain to design a winter menu.
They reached out instead to ask if she would be interested in designing two walls of the Maidstone restaurant and, following a meeting with the project manager at Zizzi headquarters, she had six days to complete the work.
The murals are filled with local references, such as a nearby safari park and vineyard.
“I think my favourite part was the freedom that came with designing the final idea,” she says.
“The only prompts were having a colour palette and focusing on the town of Maidstone.
Their brief was really to be playful, make it fun and make it about the town.
It was a nice challenge to remember all of that and then make something that people would like.”
New to mural work, Izzy quickly found that having to work while stood on a ladder, working with large paint cans, and having to use her right hand as well as her usual left hand to reach some of the areas she needed to paint, were all new challenges.
“It was fun all the same,” she says.
“Having done this project, I think it’s a career path I’d like to go down.
I’ve always wanted to find an art job specifically that allows me to travel, and this would do that for me.
Plus, it’s quite physical; it requires your whole body.”
She has two mural projects coming up – including another one for Zizzi in the new year, in Paddington, London.
“The feedback so far has been really positive and rewarding,” she said.
“If I had any advice for future students, it would definitely be never to say no to an opportunity, because you never know where it could take you – just looked what’s happened for me!”
Interested in Illustration?
Check out our course pages.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2023/sustainable-brick-designer-to-pitch-at-cop28:
University for the Creative Arts (UCA) architecture student Kongphat Phaiboonnukulkij is at the COP28 global climate conference in Dubai, which runs till 12 December, to pitch his innovative new brick design to industry professionals.
01 December 2023
Entrepreneur Kongphat, who is studying BA (Hons) Architecture at UCA Canterbury, is there to represent his tech start-up Phytavaren Technology as its inventor and chief technology officer.
As one of the four winners, Kongphat and his start-up received a cash prize to support the implementation or scale-up of his design and the opportunity to attend Youth Day at COP28 in a few days time, where he will pitch his idea live to a network of global cooling partners and compete to win a grand prize.
“I'm keen on exploring opportunities that allow me to make a meaningful impact on the built environment,” said Kongphat.
“Pushing the boundaries of what’s possible in terms of design, efficiency, and environmental responsibility.”
The brick is revolutionary because it’s made from materials from a closed-loop system – shells, waste glass from shores and riverbanks and restaurants, and plastics.
This is a more sustainable system, as it can be converted back into its raw materials at the end of life and used again in the manufacturing process.
The brick is also low energy, providing insulation against external heat and providing a passive cooling function, which is especially useful in hot and humid or hot and dry climates.
So, using minimal energy, the design can effectively regulate temperature, improving the life of people living in those environments and the climate as a whole.
“There are two questions I ask whenever I get the chance to talk with civil engineers and heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) engineers,” he said.
“Firstly, ‘What is the biggest problem in your industry and secondly, ‘How would you solve this problem’ – this is how I came up with my idea.”
During his time at UCA, Kongphat learned skills he could apply to his start-up, including computational design and time management.
He also won UCA’s Creative Enterprise Challenge in the Enterprise in a Start-Up category, winning £1,000 for his company.
Looking ahead, Kongphat is driven by his passion for continued growth and impactful contributions to architecture, design and sustainable technology.
“My goal is to bridge the gap between innovative design and sustainable technology, potentially leading or contributing to projects that redefine the way we approach construction and environmental sustainability,” he said.
To read about the winners of the 2023 This is Cool Challenge, visit the SEforALL website.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/clearing/accommodation:
An accommodation offer is guaranteed for most undergraduate applicants who join us through main Clearing in 2025.
You are guaranteed an offer of accommodation if you:
If you do not accept your offer of accommodation within five days it will be withdrawn and re-allocated to another student.
Please note: We are unable to guarantee that you will receive an offer for your preferred type of room or in your preferred accommodation.
If there is a high demand for rooms in our university halls of residence, your accommodation offer may be for a room in accommodation managed by a private accommodation provider.
If you are offered a room provided and managed by a private accommodation provider, the location will be no further than a 45 minute drive from the campus you are studying at with UCA.
If you receive your Clearing offer after 22 August 2025, then unfortunately we're unable to guarantee that you will receive an offer of accommodation.
We encourage you to still apply for university accommodation.
We process applications for university accommodation on a first-come first-served basis, so the sooner you apply for a place at our university accommodation the more likely it is that we will be able to offer you a room.
If you are allocated a room, you’ll receive an email advising you to view and accept your room offer online within five days.
If we are unable to allocate you a room in our university accommodation quickly, we will keep you updated on the availability of rooms.
We will let you know as early as possible if we do not have any availability and you need to separately secure private accommodation.
If you haven’t secured university or private accommodation before enrolment week, we will send you an email if we have any rooms available in university accommodation due to students not arriving.
We will continue to check the availability of rooms in our university accommodation.
Your offer email will explain the full process for applying for accommodation.
After you have accepted your offer to study through UCAS you will receive emails from UCA containing:
Once you have registered on the Accommodation Portal you'll be able to select the campus and type of room you'd like to live in.
You'll receive an email from UCA by 1 September 2025 about your offer of accommodation and room allocation.
Explore the accommodation on offer at our campuses in Canterbury, Epsom, and Farnham.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/clearing/bursary:
We recognise that students who commute from home to their campus of study often face substantial travel costs.
To help support these students, we are offering a bursary up to a maximum of £700 to undergraduate students who apply through Clearing and are not taking up residence in university accommodation.
A one-off cash payment of up to £700 depending on distance from campus of study to term-time residence.
Bands are as follows:
To be eligible for the Local Bursary, you must:
Once you have accepted your offer to study with us you will receive an email which contains a link to the Local Bursary application form.
We'll let you know whether you are eligible to receive the bursary in early November, with payment to follow in December.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/gradshow:
Years of hard work, research and self-exploration are set to culminate in the galleries, halls and corridors of UCAs three campuses – it’s time for our Graduation Showcase.
Our students have explored topics close to their hearts and pushed the boundaries of what’s possible creatively to produce their final major projects – from innovative design ideas and fashion-forward collections to thought-provoking films, performances and intricately made crafts.
As we celebrate the extraordinary talent of our graduates, we’re inviting you to join us and support the next generation of creators.
Visit our on-site events or check out our online showcase .
Watch highlights from the Canterbury Grad Show
Watch highlights from the Epsom Grad Show
Fashion Atelier Showcase 2025
Visit the online showcase

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2025/decathlon-partners-uca:
In a move set to redefine the future of cricket, University for the Creative Arts’ Centre for Sustainable Design (CfSD) is partnering with Decathlon’s India-based cricket division.
The collaboration, named the Circular Cricket Gear Partnership (CCGP), will design and develop the world’s first mass-produced cricket equipment based on circular economy principles.
20 August 2025
In a nation where cricket is more than a sport, this initiative directly addresses the environmental impact of sports manufacturing and aims to expand access to high-quality gear for the Indian customer base.
The partnership will initially focus on two high-turnover items: cricket gloves and leg guards.
The goal is to develop market-ready prototypes by early 2026, creating a new benchmark for sustainability in the sports industry.
The CCGP will leverage CfSD’s pioneering research in circular design and Decathlon’s industrial expertise and deep understanding of the Indian sports market.
The project’s core objective is to integrate circularity into the very DNA of product design – creating equipment that is durable, easily repairable, and designed for disassembly, reuse, and recycling.
This approach not only minimizes waste but also opens avenues for innovative business models like ‘Buy back’ schemes and refurbishment programs, potentially lowering the cost barrier for aspiring cricketers across India.
Pro batting pads using plant-based leather (Piñatex) to substitute PU leather
Professor Martin Charter, Director of The Centre for Sustainable Design (CfSD) at UCA , highlighted the project’s global significance: “This collaboration with Decathlon marks a pivotal step toward embedding circularity into sports equipment.
India is the heartland of cricket, and innovating here means creating a scalable model for the rest of the world.
It’s not just about better gear – it’s about creating gear with a better environmental footprint and creating a real impact in cricket.”
For years, Decathlon has embedded sustainability into its product philosophy, focusing on durability and repairability.
This partnership marks a significant acceleration of that commitment within one of its most important global markets.
Speaking on the collaboration , Sport Director for Cricket at Decathlon, Rob Davies said: “Over the past few decades, the game of cricket has evolved exponentially, reflecting and catering to the social and economic environments in which it is played around the world.
Through this partnership, we hope to bring this evolution to the manufacturing and distribution of equipment, making the sport more sustainable and allowing generations to come to continue to be moved by the wonders of cricket.”
Beyond the initial prototypes, the Circular Cricket Gear Partnership aims to serve as an open-source model for applying circular design principles to other sports products, driving a systemic shift in the industry.
To learn more about UCA’s Centre for Sustainable Design, visit the website.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2025/beautiful-mural-brings-communities-together:
A collaboration between students at the University for the Creative Arts (UCA) and Shooting Star Children’s Hospices has resulted in a beautiful, fantastical mural for families supported by the charity to enjoy.
15 August 2025
The piece was designed and created by two of the University’s MA Illustration students, transforming a blank wall at the charity’s Guildford hospice, Christopher’s.
The charity, who provide specialist care and support to families who have a baby, child or young person with a life-limiting condition, or who have been bereaved, across Surrey, south-west London and north-west London, invited students to create artwork that would reflect their work and the families they support.
The chosen piece, created by students On Ruengworadakul and Reshma Vattackal Suresh, was a favourite of Shooting Star’s Care team for its vibrant and engaging design.
It took the pair four days to complete the piece, painstakingly ensuring every detail and colour matched their original bespoke design.
Lucy Hooper, Social Media and Content Officer at Shooting Star, led the project and said: “We’re delighted to have worked with UCA students to create a beautiful piece of artwork at Christopher’s.
As UCA alum I understand how valuable it is to build local connections and showcase your work before graduating.
We’re so grateful to On and Reshma for their hard work, and it’s lovely to see the enjoyment it’s already bringing!”
Tom Walker, Programme Director for Illustration and Journalism at UCA agreed: “The collaboration offered students a unique opportunity to work with a real-world client, developing their professional practice while contributing to a deeply meaningful cause.
The mural, now proudly displayed at the hospice, reflects the warmth, care, and imagination that Shooting Star brings to the lives of children and families facing the most challenging circumstances.
“This project was an incredible chance for our students to apply their skills beyond the studio.
Working with Shooting Star Children’s Hospices not only gave them valuable experience responding to a live brief, but also allowed them to make a genuine impact through their art.”
To learn more about studying Illustration at UCA, visit the course pages.
Follow @sschospices

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2025/open-letter-do-not-discourage-creative-choice:
Ahead of A-level results day and Clearing, University for the Creative Arts (UCA) has written an open letter to parents and carers asking them not to discourage their children from making the creative choice and ultimately pursuing their dreams this week.
13 August 2025
Image from the book ’So...You Want to be a Creative?’ by Ryon Pattison / @ryn0_studio , UCA BA (Hons) Graphic Design (2024).
UCA writes on behalf of the children that came before, those that didn’t choose games over geography, marketing over medicine or animation over accounting due to pressure from their parents and carers, of which there are many examples posted on the online community, The Student Room.
“I’m honestly just doing linguistics for my parents.
They expect me to get a ‘good’ degree, to get a secure job – they think working in the film industry won’t get me anywhere.”
The University, which for nearly 170 years has delivered creative education, acknowledges it’s only natural for parents and carers to feel uncertain when children say they want to pursue a creative subject.
“ We understand the hopes and concerns that come with guiding children’s higher education and subject choice.
Parents and carers want the best for them – a secure future,” said UCA’s Vice-Chancellor, Professor Melanie Gray.
This is reinforced in UCAS’ Project Next Generation report, which states parents want to guide their children towards the pathways that have the best capacity for earning and stability.
As a result, almost half (48%) of children in the report, agreed that they feel pressure from parents to make ‘good’ decisions about their education.
UCA reassures in the letter that ‘a creative choice is a career choice,’ with the creative industries worth £124 billion a year to the UK economy and support more than 2.4 million jobs.
Long-term, the sector is also part of the Government’s modern Industrial Strategy – a 10-year plan backing the UK’s strengths with ambitions for eight high-growth sectors, aiming to increase productivity and create jobs.
Professor Gray, added: “With this letter we’re not reprimanding parents and carers, we’re simply asking them to support their children and have confidence in them choosing what they love.
We have seen time and time again, children not pursuing their creative dreams, which now more than ever, have a secure future.”
UCAS’ report acknowledges parents and carers play a pivotal role in the crucial choices children make about their future.
It also shows children’s higher education choices are inspired by their passions.
Support and reassurance, not pressure, is needed to empower children in their decision making.
Support ahead of A-level results day and Clearing is available on UCA’s dedicated webpage, uca.ac.uk/clearing for parents and carers, as well as those wanting to make the creative choice.
On Friday 15 and Saturday 16 August, the University also welcomes anyone to tour its campuses and ask staff and current students questions.
For those not yet applied through Clearing, Staff will also make on-the-spot offers to those suitable.
Project Next Generation : the key themes influencing future student decisions – UCAS

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/levels-of-study:
Select a level of study to find the degree that’s right for you:
At UCA, we believe everyone should be able to discover new passions and realise their creative potential.
We offer courses at several different levels of study - from short courses to give students a taster of university life, to pre-degree courses for 16 to 18-year-olds and those returning to education after a break, to undergraduate and master's degrees, all the way to PhD programmes.
Select a level of study and discover what possibilities await you:
Your first degree Undergraduate
Your next step Postgraduate
PhD/MPhil Research degrees
Integrated Foundation
Integrated Pre-Masters
Pre-sessional English
Short courses

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/study-abroad:
At UCA, we understand the significance of a global experience.
Whether you're a UCA student aiming to enrich your creative practice and broaden your horizons or a student considering UCA to gain new perspectives and international exposure, our Global Opportunity programmes are designed to support you in achieving your goals.
Here's all the information you need about potential opportunities to learn overseas.
Outgoing Study Abroad
Incoming Study Abroad
Summer Opportunities
Alice Horner - International exchange
Egle Kazlauskate - International exchange

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/about-us/university-regulations-policies-procedures:
This page contains the regulations, policies and procedures, including the Academic Frameworks that underpin the governance and management of all courses offered by the University.
Enrolment on to a University course is conditional upon students agreeing to familiarise themselves and comply with all University regulations and policies as listed below.
Policies marked with * form part of the student contract.
To ensure that students are provided with a consistent and transparent academic experience we have set out the Academic Regulations and Grading Descriptors below that relate to each level of study:
The following Code of Practice on Freedom of Speech was approved by the Board of Governors on 30 March 2022.
The code does not change the University’s pre-existing position that freedom of speech and academic freedom are central tenets of university life and must be robustly protected.
It also reflects the requirements of the Higher Education (Freedom of Speech), which was due to come into force from 1 August 2024.
On Friday 26 July 2024 the incoming Secretary of State for Education announced that further commencement of the Act would be stopped in order to consider options, including its repeal, and that long-term plans would be confirmed as soon as possible.
On Wednesday 15 January 2025, the UK Government confirmed that key provisions from the Act will be brought into force, while other elements will not be taken forward.
The University’s Code of Practice (2022) continues to be in place but will be reviewed in light of further information from the Government and updated accordingly.
If you have any questions, please contact belonging@uca.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/about-us/our-strategy:
Our vision is to be recognised as a global authority on creative arts, creative technologies and business for the creative industries.
We are achieving this through our strategic plan 2018-28 , which focuses on a number of key areas:
Find out more about UCA, and some of our work in these key areas.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/about-us/equality-diversity:
We are committed to Equality, Diversity and Inclusion for everyone in the UCA community.
Our dedicated team ensures that everything we do is respectful, inclusive and fair.
Embodied in the 2010 Equality Act, UCA recognises and strongly upholds that all forms of unlawful discrimination, harassment, bullying and victimisation are unacceptable.
We aim to ensure that no applicant, employee or student receives less favourable facilities or treatment (either directly or indirectly) on the grounds of age, disability, gender, gender reassignment, marriage, civil partnership, pregnancy, maternity, paternity, race, religion or belief, sex or sexual orientation
We greatly value a diverse academic community that is inclusive to all and supports everyone to achieve their full potential and we are continually reviewing how we work to ensure this is at the heart of all of our practices.
Equality, Diversity & Inclusion forms part of our induction procedures for staff and students, and we also offer training on EDI.
Our equality policies and procedures are regularly reviewed, maintaining their effectiveness through Equality Impact Assessments.
At UCA, we participate at local pride events, showcasing the amazing, colourful work of students and staff, whilst emphasising our presence in our local community.
Read more...
UCA aims to be a global authority on the creative arts.
To do so, we aim to match the ethnic diversity of our student body in the composition of our staff.
It is vital that our students and staff see themselves represented here.
UCA is committed to creating an environment that is physically, technologically, and attitudinally inclusive.
UCA is always exploring ways to adapt and improve their education and conduct around preventing harassment.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/about-us/environment-and-sustainability:
University for the Creative Arts (UCA) is committed to sustainable development and reducing the environmental impact of activities through our teaching, research and day to day operations.
UCA’s approach to sustainability focuses on eight core areas:
UCA is committed to reaching net-zero carbon emissions from energy consumption by 2030, 20 years ahead of the government’s national target.
This ambitious target builds on the past achievements of UCAs carbon management programme which has helped to deliver a 61% reduction in absolute carbon emissions from the University’s campuses since 2005, placing it in the top third of UK universities in terms of carbon reduction performance.
The University has undertaken more than 40 significant energy efficiency projects across its campuses since 2010 and increased on-site solar power generation by 600% since 2017.
In 2019 UCA joined with 19 other universities in a 10-year Power Purchase Agreement to source 20% of its electricity from zero-carbon rated UK onshore wind farms.
This was the first initiative of its kind in the UK.
UCA’s journey to Net Zero for energy consumption across all campuses by 2030 will include the phasing out of gas boilers and their replacement with electric heating and heat pump technology, further investment in energy efficiency and on-site renewables such as solar panels and purchasing more power from high-quality renewable sources.
In 2023, UCA was awarded £2.3 million in government grant funding towards a £6.5 million programme to decarbonise our Surrey campuses.
Works, which are due for completion in 2025, will see carbon emissions reduce by up to 90% at these campuses.
UCA will also continue to monitor and reduce emissions associated with indirect impacts, by reducing waste and water consumption, further encouraging the use of low carbon business and commuter travel, and the inclusion of climate change criteria in our purchasing decisions.
And, over the next year, UCA will work to improve data benchmarks to set future targets in these areas – in line with or in advance of the 2050 National target.
In a statement, UCA’s President and Vice-Chancellor Bashir Makhoul said: “Sustainability is not a topic we merely talk about at UCA - it’s an area where we drive action, leadership, and change.
Our students deserve a robust response to the climate crisis, and we are actively engaging with them to co-create solutions.
Our commitment to reaching net-zero carbon emissions by 2030 is an important first step."
Strategic leadership responsibility for Sustainability is held by the Vice Chancellor (VC) and operational responsibility is held by the Chief Operating Officer.
The University Sustainability Manager (SM) reports progress and seeks input on the Sustainability Programme at Campus Operations Group Meetings and submits papers to the University Leadership Team for review and approval.
The annual report is submitted for review and approval to the University Employment and Finance Committee and is reported to the Board of Governors.
A Sustainability Strategy Group (SSG) was established in 2021, and is co-chaired by the Chief Operating Officer and the Pro-Vice Chancellor.
The SSG will propose and progress the development of the University sustainability strategy.
The Sustainable Travel Group (STG), chaired by the SM, was formed in 2018, to develop Sustainable Travel Plans at each campus to reduce the environmental impact of staff and student travel.
STG membership includes staff from Estates & Facilities, Human Resources, Health & Safety and a representative from the Students Union.
All academic course teams are required to reflect upon Education for Sustainable Development (ESD) in relation to their courses in preparation for course validation and periodic review.
ESD is part of the remit of course validation panels.
In October 2019, UCA became a founding partner in BAFTA’s Albert Educational partnership, which focuses on reducing the environmental impact of TV production.
As part of the partnership UCA staff and students have access to educational modules and tools for the assessment and management of the environmental impact of moving image productions.
Students are also able to work towards BAFTA Albert accreditation for their work.
In 2021 UCA’s Business School for the Creative Industries signed up to the United Nations' Principles for Responsible Management Education (PRME), where learning will focus on the UN PRME’s six key principles– purpose, values, method, research, partnership and dialogue – with an emphasis on ethics, inclusivity and sustainability in business.
The Centre for Sustainable Design® was established in 1995 at UCA Farnham and is led by Martin Charter, Professor of Innovation and Sustainability.
The Centre has undertaken a wide range of international, national and regional research on sustainability, innovation and design - please see www.cfsd.org.uk/research .
Current research interests include grassroots innovation and the emergence of community-centred workshops, the Circular Economy, eco-innovation and SMEs, and the development of localised innovation solutions utilising materials from waste plastic fishing nets and ropes, based in North Atlantic fishing communities - see www.circularocean.eu for more details.
In August 2021, UCA Students' Union (UCASU) took part in the National Union of Students (NUS) Green Impact awards and achieved a reaccreditation of their ‘Excellent’ rating in recognition of achievements in sustainability.
This award recognises annual improvements since 2016, when the UCASU received a Bronze award under the previous grading scheme for NUS’s Green Impact Awards.
UCA’s third Carbon Management Plan was approved in 2015 and set out plans to achieve a targeted 37% reduction in absolute carbon emissions from energy consumption by 2020 compared to 2005 levels.
UCA met the 2020 target three years early at the end of 2017 and continued the implementation of elements of the plan into 2021.
Works, which are due for completion in 2025 will see carbon emissions reduce by up to 90% at these campuses.
A detailed Net Zero 2030 plan is shared in our annual Energy & Environment Report 2023/24.
Continuous improvements in energy efficiency, investments in onsite energy generation from solar photovoltaic panels and the procurement of 20% of electricity from zero-rated UK based wind power have led to significant annual reductions in carbon emissions.
By 2024, UCA’s annual absolute carbon emissions had reduced to 2,399 tonnes; a 61% decrease compared to 2005.
Carbon intensity (the weight of carbon emissions per square metre of buildings internal area) has similarly reduced significantly from 75 kgCO2e/m2 in 2008/09 to 31 kgCO2e/m2 in 2018/19 and 29 kgCO2e/m2 in 2022/23.
A renewable energy source (solar photovoltaic panels) was commissioned at the Epsom campus in 2012 and in Farnham solar PV panels were commissioned in 2017, 2018 and 2019 which now generate almost 50 MWh of electricity each year.
A Combined Heat and Power system was installed in Farnham’s new student residences development, which opened in September 2021.
In October 2019, UCA joined nineteen other UK universities in signing an aggregated power purchase agreement (PPA) to purchase 20% of its electricity from UK onshore wind power for the next ten years.
The PPA was the first of its kind in the UK and has significantly reduced the University’s market-based carbon emissions from electricity consumption as well as helping to support the growth of renewables in the UK’s generation mix.
Waste recycling schemes operate on all campuses and student residences, and food waste composting services operate at UCA Farnham and UCA Epsom.
In addition, surplus used office furniture is donated to charities and other causes local to each campus.
The total weight of waste collected in 2023/24 was 322 tonnes (235 tonnes general waste and 87 tonnes of recyclables) a 13% annual reduction in waste collected from non-residential and residential properties.
A staff & student car sharing community UCA Liftshare https://liftshare.com/uk/community/uca was launched at all campuses in 2018 to reduce the impact of commuting by car.
By 2024 over 400 staff and students were registered as Liftshare users.
A Sustainable Travel Plan was developed for Farnham campus in spring 2018 and revised in 2021 and 2024.
Plans for other campuses were completed in 2022.
The University for the Creative Arts is committed to safeguarding a liveable climate for all.
It declares that it has no direct investments in companies involved in the carbon energy industry, including those involved in extracting fossil fuels, and commits to ensuring that adverse climate impact will be avoided in any future corporate investments it may make.
We have students studying with us from across the world, many of whom come from communities who are already feeling the effects of climate change.
We want to help protect the environment for all our students and their communities – past, current and future.
We understand that many UK Higher Education Institutions have similarly committed to divest or avoid such investments in some way and we hope that many more of our fellow educational institutions will join us and add their voice to this movement.
UCA continues to be committed to managing carbon emissions from our own operations.
Since 2005, we have reduced our absolute carbon emissions (market-based) from energy consumption by 61% and we are committed to achieving Net Zero carbon emissions for energy consumption by 2030.
Our latest Environment and Sustainability Report is available here .
Explore each of our eight core areas of focus
If there are any questions about sustainability at UCA, please contact Scott Keiller, Sustainability Manager, skeiller@uca.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/about-us/procurement:
The University spends approximately £25+ million a year on goods, services and works across our campuses.
The university strives to achieve value for money with all of its purchases and where appropriate does this via competitive tendering / by utilising exiting framework agreements.
Where a contract value for goods, services or works is likely to exceed the relevant Procurement Thresholds then the contract will be tendered in accordance with the appropriate regulations .
The University is a member of the Southern Universities Purchasing Consortium which, amongst other things establishes a number of frameworks that are accessible to UCA.
The SUPC is able to aggregate the demand from a large number of Higher Education organisations in the South of England and leverage this to access competitive pricing that may otherwise not be accessible by us.
UCA will actively advertise tenders in accordance with the relevant UK public procurement regulations.
Supplier are encouraged to sign up to the governments Contracts Finder and Find a Tender systems.
Competitive tenders will be administered via the universities tender portal .
View the UCA tendering portal user guide (PDF) .
Generic queries regarding procurement at UCA should be sent to procurement@uca.ac.uk .
UCA Standard Terms and Conditions for the Supply of Goods and Services .
The University follows the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply's ethical guidelines on procurement and purchasing.
If any supplier feels they have been unfairly treated or are concerned about any aspect of the University's procurement policies and procedures they should contact the Head of Procurement in the first instance.
Email: procurement@uca.ac.uk Tel: 01252 892184

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/about-us/transparency-information:
The information published on these pages shows:
The number of students who attained a particular degree or other academic award, or a particular level of such an award, on completion of their course with us.
It shows these numbers by reference to:
This table presents the percentage of classified first degrees at grade 2:1 or above by characteristics for 2021-22 qualifiers.
This table presents detailed information on attainment by characteristics for 2021-22 qualifiers.
* BAME attainment is significantly below White student performance.
The gap is decreasing year on year, as a result of focused activity to understand factors impacting on BAME student success and provide relevant and embedded support.
UCA has committed to reducing the gap by 2024/25: this presents a significant challenge and is one of two key focuses for significant activity to ensure comparable learning opportunities across UCA demographics.
Improving the attainment of BAME students is a key strategic priority for UCA, targeted within the Key Performance Indicators for the University and 2018 Strategic Plan.
Measures to improve attainment targets the BAME student experience from application through to employment and includes: implementing a BAME Manifesto and supporting an internally funded research project into the BAME student experience at UCA.
For further information on the University’s commitment to widening access to arts education and to progression to creative careers view our Access and Participation Statement .
Further information on our commitment to Equality and Diversity is available here .

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/campuses/ici:
The Institute of Creativity and Innovation (ICI) was established in 2019 in a partnership between Xiamen University (XMU), China, and the University for the Creative Arts (UCA), UK.
With the approval of the Ministry of Education of China, ICI is the first Chinese-foreign cooperative education institution of XMU, which integrates the advanced educational concepts and advantages of both universities and builds the exceptional resources of both countries.
It is committed to cultivating the very best creative talent with a global vision, multidisciplinary knowledge, and the ability to innovate.
ICI offers three programmes currently – Visual Communication Design, Environmental Design and Digital Media Arts.
ICI adopts a “4+0” mode, that is, students who have completed all the academic requirements in China and passed all applicable assessments of both universities will receive Undergraduate Graduation Certificates and Bachelor degree awarded by XMU and Bachelor Degree conferred by UCA.
The first cohort of ICI students was recruited in September 2020.
Building on the multidisciplinary academic strength of XMU and the creative education advantage of UCA, ICI is designed to encourage and support the independent thinkers, to prepare them for being the leaders of domestic and global creative industry.
As well as jointly developed curricula, ICI has a strong and diverse team of international teaching staff to support the students, inspire them and drive their creative ambitions.
ICI, China
All new things are invaluable because they have the infinite possibility to grow.
The newly established Institute of Creativity and Innovation (ICI) serves as an important platform for Xiamen University’s international education strategy, as it forges in-depth cooperation with global leading universities, to play an active role in the global educational arena.
ICI is also critical in deepening the reform of talent training, step up the “Double First-Class” initiative and cultivate innovative talents for China’s long-term development.
ICI offers international education in design based on the fine traditions of both Xiamen University (XMU) and the University for the Creative Arts (UCA).
XMU is the first key comprehensive university in China to establish an institute of arts.
In the last 40 years, building on the heritage of education and research in humanities and social sciences, XMU has cultivated a group of artists in theory, professional skills, and innovation.
UCA has been providing creative education for 160 years.
It is the second largest provider of creative education in Europe, and specialises in the arts, technology, and creative business.
It is proud of a rich alumni legacy, including Oscar-winning filmmakers, Turner Prize nominated artists and fashion designers.
ICI was created through the joint effort of the educational authorities of both China and the UK, experts, and scholars from XMU and UCA, and many others from industry, society and also students and parents, for whom we always thankful.
We are full of confidence that the future of ICI will be promising.
Our college is located in the Zhangzhou campus of XMU, set in the picturesque scenery of Zhangzhou.
The architecture of Zhangzhou campus follows the Tan Kah Kee style, which is featured by its grandness and the blending of influences of both East and West.
We believe ICI will be the cradle of the future leaders of creative industry who are committed to changing the world with design.
Creation and innovation will shape the future.
Qin Jian Dean of Institute of Creativity and Innovation, Xiamen University
ICI is large, with a total size of 5,189 square metres, with 15 seminar rooms, an Environmental Design base room, a Digital Media Arts base room, a Visual Communication base room, two computer rooms, two photograph studios, a CNC room, a laser cutter room, a model-making workshop, and a reprographics and printing workshop.
Away from learning, there is a library, with more than 7,000 specialist books, and a café, both of which are very popular with students.
To find out more about ICI or to apply to join us, please visit the ICI website:
More about ICI

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/data-protection-policies:
The University for Creative Arts must manage your personal information in line with the UK Data Protection Act 18 and the UK General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).
The Information Commissioner’s Office regulates our compliance with these laws.
It is important that we have a clear legal basis for processing personal information, and we have documented reasons for doing so.
This ensures transparency and accountability in handling your data.
All staff are trained to ensure that privacy rights are respected and that personal data is treated with care and consideration.
We regularly review our data protection procedures which helps us monitor compliance and maintain a high standard.
Data Protection law regulates the use of personal data, which applies to both public and private sectors.
It helps to protect individual rights to privacy and covers information held by means of electronic and paper records.
It doesn’t apply to anonymised data or to information about the deceased.
Under this legislation, the University for the Creatives Arts is the ‘data controller’ and we aim to be open with individuals about how their personal data will be processed:
There are six principles we must uphold when handling your personal data:
You have the right to apply for a copy of your own records; this applies to both staff and students.
To enhance your experience and help us understand the specific information being sought, please complete the Subject Access Request (SAR) Form provided, which include prompts and guidance to ensure that all relevant details are captured consistently.
This reduces the likelihood of misunderstandings or misinterpretations, which can lead to delays or incomplete responses.
Once the standardised form is completed, this can be returned either:
The University for Creative Arts aims to provide the requested information within one calendar month from the date of receipt of the completed form.
Similar to accessing your data, you equally have a right to remove your personal information from our databases, where it does not need to be kept for legal or compliance reasons.
This known as ‘Erasure’ or ‘the right to be forgotten’.
If you would like to delete your data, in line with legislation, please complete the Erasure Request Form provided.
It is necessary to receive the fields specified for us to locate any relevant records and to assure ourselves that a complete search has been achieved.
A personal data breach is an incident leading to the accidental or unlawful loss, alteration, unauthorised disclosure of, or access to, personal data.
A breach of personal data must be reported immediately.
Reporting breaches is essential for protecting the affected individuals, but it is also a chance for the organisation to improve their compliance; this instils accountability and helps to build trust.
Some typical examples of a personal data breach include:
If the breach is likely to result in a substantial risk to privacy and/or safety, this must be reported to the Information Commissioner’s Office within 72 hours.
This is why it is important that the Data Protection Officer is notified of any potential personal data breaches straight away so that they can perform a risk assessment.
Staff are trained to identify and report such instances should they arise.
If you think a mistake has been made that might have compromised personal data, please contact the Data Protection Officer via email: DPO@uca.ac.uk and they will support you.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/cookies-policy:
This privacy statement sets out how the University for the Creative Arts (the ‘University’) complies with European Union data protection requirements and how it uses and protects any personal information that you provide when you use this website.
Where our website contains links to other sites, we have no influence on whether or not they comply with data protection law.
You should check their own privacy policies before providing them with personal information.
This Privacy Notice does not form part of any other contract with us to provide goods or services to you.
If you have any questions about this policy or do not agree with it, please contact the University at dpo@uca.ac.uk
How the University for the Creative Arts website uses cookies
We may collect information about your computer, including - where available - your IP address, operating system and browser type.
This information is statistical data about users' browsing actions and patterns, and does not identify any individual.
It is used to inform improvements to the website, for system administration, and to report aggregate information to third parties (see below).
For the same reasons, we may obtain information about your general internet usage by using a cookie file which is stored on the hard drive of your computer.
We use this information to track your movements through the website, to find out how the website is being used and to assess its usefulness.
Personal information about you is not collected during the tracking process.
Cookie Settings
Visitors under 16 years old
If you are under 16 years old and use our website, you need to make sure you have your mum, dad or other guardian's approval to use our website or submit any data to us.
When you use our website we may end up with some information about you.
You have the rights to ensure that if you don't like what we are doing with your personal information, you can tell us to stop.
If you want to do this, or make any other requests, you should contact us by emailing: dpo@uca.ac.uk
Please read our Children's Privacy Notice which lets you know what information we receive, and what we do with it.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/disclaimer:
Website
The University for the Creative Arts has taken considerable care in preparing the information and materials displayed.
However, this website is not intended to form part of the contract between the University and its students.
Printed materials
The Information in printed materials, such as our prospectus, is intended as an indicative guide to our courses and services.
We will endeavour to ensure that the information provided is accurate and up-to-date at the time of going to press.
However, we do regularly review our curriculum and may occasionally make changes.
To make an informed decision about whether you wish may wish to study at the University, we advise you to consult this website for up-to-date information.
Should we become aware of any errors in our printed materials, we will provide a list with amendments on our corrections page.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/terms-and-conditions:
Terms of website use
1.1 These terms, together with the privacy policy and cookie policy and any other documents referred to, set out the terms and conditions of use of the University for the Creative Arts website https://www.uca.ac.uk and its subdirectories and subdomains (‘the Website’), and apply to all users and visitors to the Website (‘you’).
1.2 The Website is operated by the University for the Creative Arts (‘we’, ‘us’) whose principal office is at Farnham Campus, Falkner Road, Farnham, Surrey, GU9 7DS.
We may be contacted at this address by letter for the attention of the webmaster or by e-mail at web@uca.ac.uk
1.3 Please read these terms carefully.
If you have any questions about them please contact us at web@ucreative.ac.uk before using the Website.
If you do not accept these terms, you must not use the Website.
1.3 We may change these terms, the privacy policy and any other documents referred to in the terms, at any time, and any changes will take effect immediately from the time the Website is updated.
Your continued use of the Website will be deemed to be acceptance of the updated terms.
Please check this page from time to time for any changes we have made to these terms, as they are binding on you without further notice.
Security
2.1 You must not harm, or attempt to harm, the integrity, security and/or availability of the Website.
2.2 You must not send or upload any data or material that contains viruses, Trojan horses, worms, spyware or any other harmful programmes or code designed to adversely affect the operation of any hardware or software.
2.3 If you believe that the integrity and/or security of the Website has been, or is at serious risk of being harmed, you must notify us immediately on telephone number 01252 722441.
2.4 You agree to fully indemnify us against all liabilities (including, but not limited to, legal and other professional fees and expenses) which we may incur in connection with a breach of this clause 2.
You accept all responsibility and liability for any loss or damage of any kind resulting from your conduct.
2.5 We may terminate your right to use the website, at any time without notice.
Intellectual property and use of Materials
3.1 This Website contains materials which, unless otherwise stated, are owned by or licensed to us.
These materials include, but are not limited to, the design, layout, look, appearance and graphics of the Website, and any documents, templates and reports owned or licensed by us and contained thereon ("the Materials").
The Materials are protected by intellectual property laws including, but not limited to, copyright and trademark laws.
3.2 Unauthorised use of the Website and/or the Materials may give rise to a claim for damages and/or be a criminal offence.
3.3 The Website and the Materials have been made available to you for personal and domestic use only.
3.4 You are allowed to:
3.4.1 view and display the Materials; and
3.4.2 print and/or download to a local or network drive extracts from, or whole pages of, the Materials, for your personal use.
3.5 You are not allowed to:
3.5.1 modify the paper or digital copies of any Materials you have printed off or downloaded in any way without our prior written consent; or
3.5.2 sell, distribute, republish (including incorporating any Materials into any work or publication in whatever form) or otherwise make the Materials available for any commercial purposes without our prior written consent.
3.6 You must use the Website only for lawful purposes, in a way that does not breach any applicable law or regulation.
3.7 You must use the Website in a way which does not infringe the rights of, or restrict or inhibit the use of the Website by, any third party.
3.8 We reserve the right to review, edit or remove without warning and at our sole discretion any material that breaches these terms and/or our content standards policy, and to take any action, including legal action, which we may consider necessary or is required by law.
3.9 Notwithstanding clause 3.8, we accept no responsibility or liability to any third party for any content contributed or posted by any user of the Website.
Accuracy of Information
4.1 Our Website has been prepared with the primary aim of providing general information for and about the University, detailing what we do and how we do.
Although we try to ensure that this general information is accurate at the time of publication, any information on our site may be out of date or incomplete at any given time.
If you believe that any information on our site is inaccurate please let us know and we will investigate this.
The University disclaims all liability and responsibility arising from any reliance on such general information by any visitor to our site, or by anyone who may be informed of any of its contents.
4.2 For potential applicants, information relating to specific courses can be found on the course pages on the Website.
The content may be subject to change and the University takes reasonable steps to provide the most up to date programme specification and related fees information on the Website.
Linking
5.1 The Website contains links to third-party websites.
We have no control over the content of third-party websites and we accept no responsibility or liability for their content or for any loss or damage that may arise from your use of them.
You must carry out your own checks to ensure the accuracy of any information posted by third parties.
5.2 Any link to a third-party website is not , nor should it be construed as, an endorsement of any kind by us of that website or the content of, or merchandise offered by, that website.
5.3 You may not create a link to the Website from another website or document without our prior written consent.
6.
Limitation of our liability
6.1 We do not guarantee that use of the Website will be compatible with all hardware and software which may be used by visitors to the site or that the Website will be available all the time or at any specific time.
We reserve the right to withdraw or modify the Website at any time.
You are responsible for configuring your own IT equipment in order to access the Website, and you should use your own virus protection software.
6.2 We cannot guarantee that the Website will be uninterrupted or error-free, or free of viruses or other harmful programmes or codes designed to adversely affect the operation of hardware or software.
6.3 We give no warranty or representation to you about the Website and the Materials except those which are expressly stated in these terms.
6.4 Except as set out in this clause 6, we will be under no liability to you whatsoever whether in contract, tort, (including negligence), breach of statutory duty, restitution or otherwise for any injury, death, damage or direct, indirect or consequential loss (all three of which terms include, without limitation, pure economic loss, loss of profits (whether direct or indirect), loss of business, depletion of goodwill and like loss) howsoever caused arising out of or in connection with the use of the Website or the use, accessing, downloading or relying on the Materials, any information or other materials contained in the Website, including, without limitation, as a result of any computer virus.
6.5 If you are a consumer, please note that we only provide the Website for personal and domestic use and will not be liable to you for any loss of profit, loss of business, interruption to business or loss of commercial opportunity.
6.6 We do not in any way exclude or limit or liability for:
6.6.1 death or personal injury caused by our negligence;
6.6.2 fraud or fraudulent misrepresentation; or
6.6.3 any breach of the terms for which liability cannot be limited or excluded, under section 57 of the Consumer Rights Act 2015.
7.
Jurisdiction and applicable law
The Website is controlled and operated by us from our address in England.
The formation, existence, construction, performance, validity in all aspects whatsoever of these terms or of any part of these terms or any dispute in relation to the Website or the Materials shall be governed by English law.
The English courts shall have exclusive jurisdiction to settle any disputes which may arise out of or in connection with these terms or use of the Website.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/about-us/freedom-of-information:
The Freedom of Information Act 2000 gives a general right of access to all types of recorded information held by public authorities, sets out general exemptions from that right and places a number of obligations on public authorities.
Public authorities are defined in the Act and include Higher Education institutions such as the University for the Creative Arts.
The Act is intended to promote a culture of openness and accountability amongst public sector bodies by providing people with rights of access to the information held by them.
It is expected that these rights will facilitate better public understanding of how public authorities carry out their duties, why they make the decisions they do and how they spend public money.
The University for the Creative Arts is committed to providing information in accordance with the Freedom of Information (FOI) Act and will approach all requests for information in a positive and non-bias manner.
See our FOI policy for information on our FOI processes and due diligence.
Our publication scheme provides electronic access to the most up-to-date corporate information and our Classes of Information page covers popular areas of interest.
We encourage you to review these pages before submitting a new request as the information you are looking for may already be available to you.
To enhance your experience and help us understand the specific information being sought, please complete the FOI Request Form provided, which include prompts and guidance to ensure that all relevant details are captured consistently.
This reduces the chances of missing important information, which can lead to delays or incomplete responses.
Please do not send requests for your own records as the FOI Act does not allow access to personal information.
For guidance on how to request private information, see our Data Protection page .
You will receive an acknowledgement with further details and the university will aim to complete the request within twenty working days, providing that the information is not exempt from disclosure.
There are a number of exemptions that limits the information accessible under the FOI Act for various legal reasons.
These exemptions are subject to interpretation and are considered on a case-by-case basis.
If at any point information has been withheld, you will be directed to the appropriate exemption and an explanation will detail our careful assessment of the scope for this.
Provision under the FOI Act does not entitle you to re-use the information without appropriate permissions.
The University for the Creative Arts is happy for the reuse of most information supplied in compliance with the open Government Licence terms .
The University does not permit the forwarding or sale of staff/departmental contact details.
Where you receive or access a document that is co-authored, you may be required to seek the permission of other information owners.
A specific 'Re-use of Information Regulations' request is required to proceed.
If you are unhappy with the response you have received and it is not possible to resolve the complaint informally, you have the right to request that the University conducts an internal review.
This is passed on to a senior manager for a fresh assessment on the information available and gives the university the opportunity to review our conduct and compliance.
Requestors have the right to challenge a response if it is:
To make a request for an internal review, please notify us in writing within 40 days either:
Compliance with the FOI Act is overseen by the Information Commissioner Office (ICO).
If you are not content with the outcome of your internal review, you may apply directly to the ICO for a review of the decision.
It is unlikely that the ICO will make a decision unless you have exhausted the local complaints procedure.
This commissioner body can be contacted either:

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/accessibility-statement:
For information about assistive technology available to students and staff, as well as details of our accessible facilities and support schemes, please refer to our campus accessibility guide .
The uca.ac.uk website  is owned and maintained by the University for the Creative Arts (UCA).
The University is committed to providing an accessible web presence that gives all members of the public full access to its information and services.
This accessibility statement applies to the main uca.ac.uk website and the following sub-domains that inherit the main website's templates:
We aim to make all sites listed above compliant with the standards set by the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG 2.2 AA) .
The university's external website (uca.ac.uk) is partially compliant with WCAG 2.2 AA .
Known areas of non-compliance are detailed below in section 8.1.
Details of what we're doing to continually test and improve our compliance can be found in section 10 of this statement.
The University's external website is partially compliant with the WCAG 2.2 AA guidelines.
We are aware that some parts of UCA’s websites are not fully accessible and these areas are listed in section 8 of this webpage.
If you need information on UCA’s website in a different format like accessible PDF, large print, easy read, audio recording or braille, please email web@uca.ac.uk .
We’ll consider your request and aim to get back to you in three (3) working days.
We’re always looking to improve the accessibility of this website.
If you find any problems not listed on this page or think we’re not meeting accessibility requirements, email the UCA Web Team web@uca.ac.uk .
The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 (the ‘accessibility regulations’).
If you’re not happy with how we respond to your complaint, contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS) .
For information about contacting us by phone or to arrange a visit to our offices, please visit the Contact us page .
The University for the Creative Arts is committed to making its websites accessible, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 .
The uca.ac.uk, gradshows.uca.ac.uk and students.uca.ac.uk websites are partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.2 AA standards, due to the non-compliances and exemptions listed below.
The content listed below is non-accessible for the following reasons.
8.1 Non-compliance with the accessibility regulations.
8.2 Disproportionate burden
None.
Some of our PDFs that provide information about the university and its services published before 23 September 2018 are exempt from accessibility regulations and we do not plan to fix these.
The university takes web accessibility seriously.
In the past few years we have undertaken a number of major development updates across the UCA web environment to address website accessibility issues, such as launching a newly designed site and deploying accessibility controllers on all page layouts.
We continually monitor accessibility issues with the use of dedicated web accessibility tools and ensure that updates are fed directly into the university website development roadmap, managed by the Web Team.
To address issues identified in 8.1, the university undertakes the following procedures:
This statement was prepared on 22 September 2020.
It was last updated on 22 January 2025.
Websites were last tested on 5 August 2024.
The test was carried out by the University for the Creative Arts, using our web accessibility tools.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/about-us/health-safety-and-wellbeing/safeguarding:
UCA understands its important role in protecting the safety and wellbeing of its students, staff, and any visitors from risk of abuse, neglect, or radicalisation.
To that end we have a comprehensive safeguarding policy covering all areas of safety, which sets out the values and procedures we have in place to highlight potential safeguarding issues, how to raise any concerns, and the steps UCA will take to deal with them.
Read our full safeguarding policy .
If you need to report a concern about yourself or someone else, then there are slightly different procedures depending on if you are a student, a member of staff, or a visitor.
We appreciate the effort and courage it can take to speak to someone, but it’s important that you do – especially if you or someone else is in danger.
If you have a concern, we ask you to speak to one of the following people as soon as you are able to:
For more information, please visit the UCA Student Portal’s Safeguarding pages .
There are procedures and advice in place to raise your own concerns, and to pass on concerns reported to you by students, colleagues and visitors.
Please go to the UCA Staff Portal’s Safeguarding page for information on this.
Report+Support is an online platform for students, staff and visitors to report discrimination, misconduct, harassment, or assault against themselves or others.
We’ll deal with all reports, no matter how small.
Sensitively, honestly, and professionally.
Visit UCA's Report + Support site

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/about-us/modern-slavery-statement:
Modern slavery is both a criminal offense and a breach of fundamental human rights.
It manifests in diverse ways, including slavery, servitude, forced labour, and human trafficking – all of which result in people being deprived of their freedom for personal or financial benefit.
UCA is committed to proactively preventing modern slavery in both our direct suppliers and in our supply chain as a whole.
As a small organisation we also accept our ability to monitor our complex supply chains in foreign countries is limited, and therefore use external tools as necessary.
As an educational establishment dedicated to the creative arts, we are committed to embedding sustainable development into our academic provision.
This includes encouraging students to consider concepts of global citizenship, issues of social justice, ethics and wellbeing.
We do this by including the principle in our academic plan and adopting a truly international approach to recruiting and building the student community, almost one-fifth of our students come to study with us from overseas, travelling from many different nations.
Students are encouraged to understand the consequences of actions which could impact on a community’s sustainable future.
We are committed to improving our practices to combat slavery and human trafficking.
This statement is made pursuant to section 54(1) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and constitutes the University’s slavery and human trafficking statement for the financial year ending 31 July 2024.
It sets out the steps the University has taken to ensure that slavery and human trafficking do not take place in any part of our business or our supply chains.
The University is a Higher Education corporation and an exempt charity under the terms of the Charities Act 2011.
Our core business is the advancement of Higher Education and research in our specialist disciplines.
Most of our income comes from tuition fees, we also receive some public funding directly from the Office for Students and Research England.
We generate further income by providing accommodation and catering services to our students and staff.
We have campuses across Surrey and Kent as well as centres in partner organisations.
Our supply chain is diverse and includes multinational companies to sole traders.
Goods and services are procured by all departments across the University.
We continue to review our supply chain on an ongoing basis, both to ensure continuing best value and compliance with our policies, including the prevention of Modern Slavery.
We purchase goods or services from suppliers globally.
Some of these countries are ranked as high-risk countries by the Walk Free Foundation’s Global Slavery Index 2018 and are of particular concern, although Modern Slavery can happen in any country.
We purchase many of our services through procurement frameworks, as part of these frameworks these suppliers will already have been vetted, however we will continue to ensure their compliance with our policies.
To raise awareness of modern slavery, new suppliers are required to provide signed confirmation of their undertaking to work alongside us in good practice and compliance with our policies.
Additionally, every purchase order generated is accompanied by a link to the UCA terms and conditions outlining our policy.
All suppliers with which we spent over £25k were emailed in 2023 to remind them of our requirements along with a link to this statement.
In addition, we provided information on a confidential whistleblowing service they can use if they have any concerns about people at risk.
Suppliers of goods / services which are at risk of being produced through a process using forced labour are prioritised for review on an ongoing basis.
Goods that we procure that may be higher risk are:
Services that we procure that may be higher risk are:
In keeping with our commitment to act with integrity in all our business dealings, many of our existing policies determine how the University conducts its business operations, to include sustainable, ethical, economic and social considerations in its purchase of goods and services and in the employment of staff.
Relevant Policies include:
UCA is committed to provide targeted training in Modern Slavery and human trafficking, to aid compliance and heighten awareness.
An online training module is compulsory for all new staff.
Going forward, in addition to being   compulsory for all new staff the module forms part of a refresher programme for staff.
Staff are required to complete the current module on a biennial basis.
Since the last statement we have:
We are committed to continually developing and maintaining transparent working relationships with our suppliers and supply chains to ensure that there is no slavery or human trafficking in our supply chains.
Our plans for 2024/25 include:
This Statement has been approved and published by the University’s Board of Governors following a review in September 2024.
In accordance with Section 54 of the Modern Slavery Act, 2015 this statement will continue to be reviewed at least annually.
Jeremy Sandelson Chair of the Board of Governors University for the Creative Arts 10/07/24

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/events/future-students/uca-live-enrolment---everything-you-need-to-know---10092025:
10 September 2025 - 10 September 2025
16:00 -17:00 (GMT)
Online webinar

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/events/future-students/uca-live-making-an-outstanding-portfolio--applying-to-university---22102025:
22 October 2025 - 22 October 2025

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/events/future-students/uca-live-how-to-write-a-personal-statement-for-a-creative-degree---19112025:
19 November 2025 - 19 November 2025

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/events/future-students/uca-live-creative-careers--life-after-university---03122025:
3 December 2025 - 3 December 2025

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/events/future-students/uca-live-supporting-students-at-university---10122025:
10 December 2025 - 10 December 2025
17:00 -18:00 (GMT)

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/events/future-students/uca-live-making-an-outstanding-portfolio--applicant-day-advice---14012026:
14 January 2026 - 14 January 2026
Want to make the best portfolio?
And know what to expect from from our applicant day process?
Join us on Wednesday 14th January to speak to our expert panel and ask your questions!

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/events/future-students/uca-live-postgraduate-opportunities--a-focus-on-masters--phds---28012026:
28 January 2026 - 28 January 2026
10:00 -11:00 (GMT)

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/events/future-students/uca-live-how-to-apply-to-accommodation---18022026:
18 February 2026 - 18 February 2026
Want to know about our accommodation and how to apply?
Join us on Wednesday 18th February to speak to our accommodation team and expert panel to ask your questions!

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/events/future-students/uca-live-postgraduate-opportunities--a-focus-on-phds--masters---25032026:
25 March 2026 - 25 March 2026

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/events/future-students/uca-live-a-guide-to-student-finance--budgeting-at-university---15042026:
15 April 2026 - 15 April 2026

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/events/future-students/uca-live-student-support--life-on-campus---13052026:
13 May 2026 - 13 May 2026

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/events/future-students/uca-live-getting-ready-for-university---15072026:
15 July 2026 - 15 July 2026

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/events/future-students/uca-live-clearing---06082026:
6 August 2026 - 6 August 2026

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/events/future-students/uca-live-enrolment---09092026:
9 September 2026 - 9 September 2026

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study:
If you want to use your creativity to drive change and meet all kinds of different people, then our courses will appeal to you.
Whichever level and subject you choose, you'll forge inspiring partnerships, make work with purpose and find solutions to real, human problems.
And you’ll graduate with the skills and experience you need to build a successful career doing what you love, in a way that makes a difference.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ba-acting:
Develop your skills through practical training with industry professionals
Collaborations include the National Theatre, Shakespeare’s Globe and BFI
Apply to join the UCA Graduate Company, Spotlight and Equity UK
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our BA (Hons) Acting  degree:
112 UCAS points
International equivalent qualifications
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Acting  students may be interested in.
The National Theatre has been sharing unforgettable stories for more than 50 years.
In its role as the leader of theatre in the UK, it works tirelessly to bring theatre to audiences around the world and encourages the art of theatre through commissioned work, learning programmes and strategic partnerships.
Shakespeare’s Globe is a world-renowned theatre, education centre, and cultural landmark.
Inspired and informed by the unique historic playing conditions of two beautiful iconic theatres, our diverse programme of work harnesses the power of performance, cultivates intellectual curiosity, and excites learning to make Shakespeare accessible for all.
Spotlight is at the heart of the performing arts industry and connects performers with roles in theatre, television and film productions.
Spotlight are recognised as the industry’s best, and work with its partners to find the right performer for the job, wherever they are in the world.
Equity is the UK’s performing arts and entertainment trade union, representing more than 47,000 performers and creative practitioners across the country, for more than 100 years.
Performing Arts at UCA
Rehearsing for Let the Right One In performance
Eugenie talks about studying Acting at UCA
Acting, Voice & Movement This unit will introduce you to a set of skills which will provide a robust foundation for the course and underpin a life-long process of learning for the professional actor and performer.
Equality, Diversity & Inclusion This unit aims to develop an awareness and understanding of equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI), and promote progressive values and attitudes in creative practice.
Professional Practice This unit will address marketing yourself and an actor and performer when you leave UCA.
You will start to meet actors, casting agents and directors from industry who will discuss with you the work you want to make and be cast in.
20 th & 21 st Century Theatre In the 20 th & 21 st Century Theatre unit you will rehearse and perform in a live theatrical production from or inspired by the period.
This production will be directed by a member of university staff and supported by additional workshops and masterclasses.
Screen Acting In this unit you will study the fundamentals of screen acting and film creation.
You will learn basic filmmaking and screen acting skills and use these to make solo and group films inspired by the film genres you have studied.
Individual Performance Project This final unit of Year 1 combines the skills you have learnt throughout the year and anticipates elements of your Final Major Project in Year 3.
Elizabethan & Jacobean Theatre You will rehearse and perform in a live theatrical production from or inspired by the period, directed by a member of university staff and supported by workshops and masterclasses.
Cross course collaboration is encouraged and the final production will be performed in front of a public audience.
The Conscious Practitioner This unit aims to promote progressive values and attitudes to diversity and inclusion in creative practice.
You’ll have the opportunity to explore global perspectives and influences on creative practice, drawing upon interactions with varied identities, cultures, politics, and histories.
Students will reflect on the development of their own creative influences, perspectives, practices, and sense of belonging as developing creative professionals in global and contemporary spaces.
Audio, Visual & Video Game Acting Developing further the practical approach to acting and performance skills introduced in Year 1, you will advance your screen acting, voice acting, creative and technical skills and focus on recorded work.
Writing, Producing & Directing Writing, Producing & Directing builds on the foundational skills developed in Professional Practice, empowering you to take creative ownership through play script development, production planning, and directorial techniques for theatre.
There is a choice of elective units available and more details will be provided to you once on the course.
Examples of elective units from previous years include:
This unit is the final directed performance of the course.
Led by professional directors and senior staff, you will work on a live staged performance, to be shown to an invited audience.
This unit is the culmination of the studies in screen acting.
Led by professional directors and senior staff, you will work on a film performance through scenes (and monologues).
You will be filming scenes (and screen monologues) from devised, commissioned and/or published screenplays.
The Final Major Project: Practice as Research will engage you through several periods of sustained research on an individually negotiated subject for investigation.
This will most likely be related to the contextual and/or theoretical concerns of your chosen areas of practice.
You will explore a variety of methodologies and resources appropriate to your area(s) of interest that will allow you to express the sustained period of research through practical, written, and oral assessment.
Professional placement or International year (if undertaken)
UCA is excited to introduce an innovative addition to our Performing Arts programme – the UCA Graduate Company.
This tuition-free initiative is designed to provide you with a unique opportunity to further develop your skills and continue your journey into the creative industries.
The UCA Graduate Company is not just an extension of your degree; it’s a transformative experience.
You will create multi-media, multi-disciplinary and multi-linguistic work that complements our postgraduate courses.
To be eligible for the UCA Graduate Company, you will need to meet specific criteria during your time with us.
The application process takes place in the later stages of your formal studies, offering a seamless transition into this immersive experience.
This course has an on-campus performance space and study spaces for group working, tutorials, seminars and technical workshops.
It is also in partnership with the Farnham Maltings and the larger performances are housed there.
The Maltings is a leading performance venue located in the heart of Farnham with a network of professional theatre makers based there and regular live and screened performances which give Acting  students a valuable live/screen experience.
Taught by lecturers with professional acting or directing experience, you’ll quickly learn what it takes to be an industry professional.
Our degree course is designed by professionals to train contemporary actors, and our valuable industry links include:
Alongside (or as an alternative to) theatre, TV, radio or film work, a portfolio career for the professional freelance actor may also include:
"The course has been an amazing, invigorating experience especially the whole university journey as a whole from moving from London to Farnham and adapting to a new environment and engaging with new peers"
Jamahyl Chan-Ellis
"It was clear that the students, as experienced 3rd years at UCA, have learnt so much and are ready to enter into the wider world of acting and performance, and put all their knowledge into practice.
I have no doubt they will all do brilliantly."
Lucy Hellier CDG Casting (Skyfall, Spectre)
Read the latest news and blogs from our Acting & Performance courses
For these courses we’ll need to see an audition.
The requirements vary depending on whether you have a face-to-face audition or upload an online audition.
For more details please see more Acting audition advice
Tae-Jean Grierson, BA (Hons) Acting, UCA Farnham
Neila Masolaite, BA (Hons) Acting, UCA Farnham
Katie Paul, BA (Hons) Acting, UCA Farnham
Diogo Viegas, BA (Hons) Acting, UCA Farnham
Esther Zhang, BA (Hons) Acting, UCA Farnham
Hayden Lepine-Williams, BA (Hons) Acting, UCA Farnham
Callum Durrant, BA (Hons) Acting, UCA Farnham
Conrad Kayitare, BA (Hons) Acting, UCA Farnham
BA (Hons) Acting, UCA Farnham
Amelia Sian BA (Hons) Acting, UCA Farnham
Ellie Chambers, BA (Hons) Acting, UCA Farnham
Ivrin Li, BA (Hons) Acting, UCA Farnham

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ma-acting:
Train with professionals, perform on stage and screen, and launch your career with our MA Acting course at UCA’s School of Creative and Cultural Industries in Farnham, Surrey.
Our MA Acting degree offers a rigorous, practice-based training for experienced actors seeking to refine and further develop their craft.
You will advance your practice through Acting Skills, strengthening your technique, presence, and emotional range.
In the Classical & Contemporary Theatre unit, you will explore diverse styles, texts, and performance contexts, enhancing versatility and critical understanding and the Screen Acting unit continues the development of your on-camera performance, technical awareness, and adaptability across digital formats.
The Practice as Research for Digital Performance unit encourages innovative exploration of performance in virtual, multimedia, and interactive environments.
The culmination of the course is Final Major Project & Professional Practice, in which you will synthesise learning into a delf-directed performance or research-led piece, supported by industry-facing preparation.
This intensive, creatively rich year will equip you with the artistic vision, technical skill, and professional resilience required to thrive in today’s evolving performance landscape across stage, screen, audio, and digital platforms.
This course has previously been titled MA Screen Acting & Performance, from September 2025 onwards the course has adopted the new title MA Acting.
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Acting students may be interested in.
Acting Skills This unit explores the art of bringing characters to life on screen.
Through a series of engaging workshops and exercises, you will explore various techniques to enhance your performances and deepen your understanding of character development.
Classical & Contemporary Theatre In Classical & Contemporary Theatre, you will critically explore and engage with a variety of texts, focussing on both classical and contemporary forms.
Through text analysis, character development, and performance techniques, you will adapt your acting practice to reflect diverse cultural, historical, and modern contexts.
Screen Acting 2 This unit will introduce you to the camera while exploring various acting techniques through the medium of film, television, and digital media performance, such as presenting, radio/television drama, voiceover, and podcast.
Practice as Research for Digital Performance This unit combines critical understanding with practice as research for digital performance.
You will be introduced to a range of research resources and methods that will enable you to consider and question how the role of the actor has evolved with technology while exploring the impact of a diverse range of concepts such as representation, genre, ethics, politics, knowledge and power.
Final Major Project and Professional Practice As the culmination of your studies, you will conceptualise, pitch and deliver an original screen project that will demonstrate the level of accomplishment you have developed in your professional practice through the previous units and use it to promote your professional industry presence.
Alongside the Final Major Project, you will also be developing your understanding of the potential career opportunities that might attract you, enhancing your online industry profile, researching potential employers, collaborative partners or preparing for further study.
Integrated Pre-masters course
Masters course
Please note: the fees listed here are correct for the stated academic year only.
For more detailed information about our course fees please see our fees and finance pages .
Current UCA students and alumni may be eligible for a tuition fee discount.
Discover what support you might qualify for please see our financial support information .
Graduates of this impressive course might find themselves going on to work in a variety of different roles within the creative industry.
These might include:
You may want to undertake further study or research to specialise even further.
For this course we will need to see your portfolio for review.
You can either submit a digital portfolio or request an in-person portfolio review with the course team.
Consideration will also be given to applicants who can make a strong case for admission in relation to a particular project and can demonstrate their potential to satisfactorily complete the course.
Read the latest news and blogs from our Acting courses
BA (Hons) Acting & Performance, UCA Farnham
Acting Workshop

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ba-animation:
Alumni include the creators of Peppa Pig and Hey Duggee!
Access to state-of-the-art facilities for a range of animation styles
Established in 1972 by Oscar winner Bob Godfrey
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our BA (Hons) Animation degree:
32 UCAS points
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Animation students may be interested in.
Q&A with our course team
Launch You’ll begin by taking part in a series of interdisciplinary workshops and seminars based around ideas generation, creative practice, and development.
This week will help students develop their understanding of creativity and different sources of inspiration via different approaches, concepts, and mediums.
Animation Principles This unit will introduce the fundamental principles of animation through a range of traditional and contemporary animation techniques.
Complimentary to this, you’ll learn essential drawing and mark-making skills necessary for observing and interpreting the mechanics of movement and gesture.
Equality, Diversity and Inclusion The unit provides an opportunity for students to explore what is meant by equality, diversity, and inclusion and the implications of these concepts for creative practice.
It will equip students to understand how our social identities (such as, gender, race/ethnicity, class, disability, sexual orientation, and religion) contribute to the inclusion and/or exclusion of individuals in creative spaces.
Public Exhibition You’ll be introduced to effective forms of presentation and how they can greatly benefit your portfolio as well as your ability to be able to curate your own work.
Alongside the development of your presentation and curation skills, you will also be introduced to moving image as a way in which to display your work.
Opportunity - 24-hour film challenge This week will help you develop your understanding and appreciation for fast-paced idea generation while working within a team.
You’ll work to create an idea, develop your concept and produce a short film in 24 hours.
Group Film You’ll be introduced to various filmmaking conventions and associated theories in order to help you work in a group to produce a short, animated film.
You’ll learn pitching and presentation skills, the individual roles and responsibilities in a production team and the importance and purpose of design, storyboarding and animatics in presenting your ideas.
Animation Industry Practices Through a series of tailored seminars and workshops you will be set briefs that are aligned to the entry requirements typical of an internship/junior level animator role within the animation industry.
Animator’s Portfolio The Animator’s Portfolio is a focus on your own individual work and creative practice, with a view to your future in the creative industries.
You’ll create an online web presence to showcase and contextualise examples of your current working practice, and learn to curate your own work and design your portfolio to be both aesthetically pleasing and accessible.
PLE Digital Outcome In this unit you will collate a digital record, reflecting on your learning journey through the first year of your degree.
You will be identifying key points and developments within all units undertaken.
We are interested in seeing a detailed account of your academic, technical and creative progress and development.
Launch week A series of interdisciplinary seminars and workshops on how to evaluate your own work and recognise your points of strength.
This week will investigate how creative risk-taking, invention and experimentation helps to develop your work.
Short Film In this unit you are asked to produce a professionally finished film with the aim of having it screened at a competitive International Animation Festival before the end of your second year.
In order to have your film accepted into a festival it will need to demonstrate a high level of creativity, technical competence and originality whilst communicating a clear idea.
All films will be prepared for entry into one or more festivals.
Students will have the opportunity to explore global perspectives and influences on creative practice, drawing upon interactions with varied identities, cultures, politics, and histories.
Opportunity Week – Game Jam This week consists of a series of interdisciplinary seminars, screenings, and workshops on creative game-building subjects through the lens of a ‘Games Jam’ event.
You’ll see the possibilities and potential of what you could create in a short space of time, with the influence of their individual practises and subjects.
You’ll explore further innovation, technique, and technology in production, distribution and exhibition of a fully functioning and playable video game.
Research, Reflection and Practice Research is a practical activity that will further your creative, technical, and critical abilities.
The research you will undertake within this unit will be expanded to take account of wider contexts and how these key debates, discussions and discourses relate to your own evolving animation practice.
It will be used to produce a fully contextualised film outcome with depth and character.
You’ll also produce a statement of intent for your final year, including your dissertation proposal, and there’s also an opportunity to undertake a self-generated work placement.
Client Brief In collaboration with a client, you’ll work in small production teams to reflect usual industry working practices.
Each member will explore both individual roles and responsibilities while maintaining a wider role within the team and the project.
Using advanced digital animation techniques in 2D, 3D, or a combination, you’ll look beyond the tools of the software and explore their creative use within the context of the clients' requirements and needs.
PLE Digital Outcome You’ll build your industry community and professional networking footprint, creating a digital folder evidencing that you are actively engaging in sustainable professional development.
The following electives are available at UCA Farnham:
You can also choose from the following electives offered at Maidstone TV Studios:
Launch – Professional Practice This unit focuses on ground-breaking, creative work that has surprised, shocked, and changed the way we view the world.
It will help you see the possibilities and potential of what you could create and achieve in your final year.
You’ll explore further innovation, technique and technology in production, distribution, and exhibition.
Pre-production and Pitch This unit provides an in-depth look at the initial stages of the production process of animation filmmaking.
This is your opportunity to propose, develop and refine your ideas and techniques in order to shape them into a fully formed concept that is production-ready.
You’ll develop your scripts and concepts, consider your audience, structure your time, and clarify your production techniques, before crafting and presenting a film pitch with supporting documents that fully articulate your concept.
Opportunity Week The week comprises a series of interdisciplinary lectures, seminars and workshops centred around life after graduation.
It covers important and relevant subjects, like internships, interviews, professional etiquette, freelancing, presentation skills, applying for funding, networking, artist residency programs, handling criticism and rejection.
Dissertation You’ll undertake sustained, individually negotiated research on a subject related to the contextual and/or theoretical concerns of your discipline or chosen area of practice, towards the provision of structured written argument.
Graduate Film Your Graduation film represents the culmination of your time at UCA, and should draw upon all of the creative, technical, and theoretical knowledge that you have gained.
The film can be made in any style, medium or genre, and should be accompanied by a professionally facing showreel.
You can work individually, collaboratively or as part of a group – but whatever you produce, it must be of a standard that is aimed at entry into international film festivals, the creative industries or postgraduate study.
Animation facilities include stop motion studio with Dragonframe capture software, Canon DSLRs and professional camera stands, and stages pre-rigged with grips, stands and lights.
Studios feature individual workstations, light boxes, Wacom tablets, line testers and batch scanners.
Macs have the full Adobe Creative Suite as well as Toon Boom and Maya CG software, while there’s also sound and editing suites on campus.
Room: G01
This is an iMac Studio with three animation light boxes and drawing tablets
Room: G20
This room contains one stop motion bay with a canon camera, standing studio lights, storage and green screen backdrop.
Room: B11
Room: G13
This room contains three bays, each with a Canon camera and one with an electric slider for enhanced camera control.
It also has studio lights, gels, materials library and a small workstation for repairs.
Room: G17
This stop motion studio contains four rostrum stages, all suitable for light box work and one containing a multiplane.
As a long-established degree course, we’ve built an extensive network of industry connections, giving us access to high-profile visiting lecturers, and to commissions, competitions and exciting work-placement opportunities.
Our industry links include:
Animation is one of the most significant and rapidly expanding media fields.
An enormous range of career opportunities exist in animation, from the traditional techniques of animation storytelling to drawn, model and CGI animation.
Typical careers in the industry include:
As one of the pre-eminent animation courses in the world, our sought after alumni have landed many exciting, high profile roles across the industry.
These include positions as:
Many well-known studios have been set up by our alumni including:
"I chose animation because it combines all my interests at once – art, filmmaking, and storytelling.
Although I had done some animation before the course, my passion grew during my studies."
Michelle Brand
View Animation portfolio advice
Other relevant and equivalent Level 3 UK and international qualifications are considered on an individual basis, and we encourage students from diverse educational backgrounds to apply.
Lecturer in Animation

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ma-animation:
We have a long and illustrious history of animation education at UCA Farnham - all started by Henry's Cat creator Bob Godfrey.
Follow in the footsteps of the greats on our MA Animation degree.
During your time here, you'll take an interdisciplinary approach to the animated form, and we'll encourage you to experiment and speculate when you're making your work.
This course attracts students from around the world and has a rich cultural mix.
You will come to the programme as an established animator but will be encouraged to take risks, explore new techniques, develop your interests and exchange, debate and discuss ideas.
Along the way, you'll be expected to produce original, high-quality and exciting films, and explore the wide range of creative possibilities of frame-by-frame filmmaking – all with the support of internationally renowned staff.
Our course is proud to have no house style and offers a wide range of technical resources covering the whole spectrum of contemporary animation.
We also offer this degree with an Integrated Pre-Masters course for international and UK students .
The course prepares you for postgraduate study by improving your academic and creative skills before your degree begins.
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our MA Animation degree:
A one-year course of advanced study for furthering your research skills and specialising within your discipline.
Honours degree (or equivalent qualification) in the subject/related discipline and/or Relevant work experience
This course includes a year-long preparatory course of study to ready you for your Masters course, developing your specialist knowledge, research skills and confidence in working alone.
A recognised bachelor degree or 3 year diploma with a strong portfolio in a relevant subject
MA Animation Graduate Showreel
Our Integrated Pre-Master's course will prepare for postgraduate study by improving your academic and creative skills before your degree begins.
You'll build a portfolio of work whilst you explore your subject specialism and benefit from personal development tutoring that will support your academic growth and help refine your specialism.
If you need to enhance your English language skills you can opt to join a pre-sessional English course to improve your IELTS score as well.
Learn more about the Integrated Pre-Masters course
Animation Studio 1 In this unit, you will consolidate and extend your animation skills, employing industry standard techniques of pre-production, production and post-production to develop an original idea into a completed animation with sound.
Typically, this will comprise a one-minute short film.
The brief allows for you to explore the potential in animation for communication and connection with your audience, and to extend and explore your chosen area of expertise.
Animation Research & Professional Contexts 1 Exploring practical processes, techniques and technologies, you will develop your own methods to create a series of test animations, forming a showreel.
You will explore the different modes of research related to the creative process, through critical and practical study.
You will develop your analytical skills and establish the links between theoretical and creative practice.
Research workshops will provide the basis for your independent critical study, and you will write a critical reflection as a component of this unit.
Animation Studio 2 Building on the pre-production techniques established in Animation Studio 1, you will research and develop an idea and a methodology for your Animation Major Project, a substantial personal project which you will undertake in your next unit.
Animation Research and Professional Contexts 2 In this unit, you will have the opportunity to work on industry briefs from external organisations such as companies, cultural institutions, community groups, NGOs, or charities, and/or collaborate with musicians or other independent creatives.
Working on short projects, you may work in small production teams to reflect usual industry working practices or work individually with a client.
If working in a group, you will explore both individual roles and responsibilities whilst maintaining a wider role within the team and the project.
Animation Major Project You will bring together the knowledge, skills and experience gained on the course to produce a self-directed project and associated critical investigation/portfolio of work.
The project can be self-initiated or in collaboration with a client, but the project will be negotiated in collaboration with the course team and should use the language and medium of animation to communicate and create meaning.
You will be required to situate your practice in a professional context of animation production, exhibition, and distribution, both in the UK and internationally and to develop a plan for the exhibition and distribution of your own project work.
You will be required to write a critical evaluation of your completed project work which situates your practice in a theoretical context.
An enormous range of career opportunities exist in animation, and typical careers in the industry include:
As one of the pre-eminent animation courses in the world, our sought-after alumni have landed many exciting, high profile roles across the industry.
These include:
"I learned a lot during my MA course at UCA Farnham.
The emphasis was on our artistic development and forging our own path in the animation industry.
I am now looking forward to putting my skills and knowledge into practice."
Marina Koleva
MA Animation is designed for candidates with previous animation experience.
Our course encourages you to refine your practice, rather than introduce you to the principles of animation.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ba-architecture:
Ranked 2nd for student experience in the UK by The Times/Sunday Times for 2025
Ranked joint 3rd for teaching quality in the UK by The Times/Sunday Times for 2025
Teaching future architects for more than 60 years
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our BA (Hons) Architecture (RIBA Part 1) degree:
128 UCAS points
UK: 64 UCAS points International / EU: 12 years of schooling (with good grades)
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Architecture (RIBA Part 1) students may be interested in.
The Royal Institute of British Architects (RIBA) is a global professional membership body and charity, driving excellence in architecture.
The Architects’ Registration Board (ARB) is an independent professional regulator, accountable to government.
It ensures only those who are suitably competent are allowed to practice as architects.
Why I love Studying Architecture
Graduate talks about designing our Film & Media centre
Chris Simmons, Architecture alumni, tells us about his time at UCA
Launch Launch Week is the first week of your academic journey at UCA - it is an intensive week spent gearing up for your study objectives and getting to know your course staff, peer group and the School community in greater depth.
Projects 01 You’ll be introduced to fundamental issues, processes and skills that will be relevant throughout your studies, and gain understanding of the relationships between the body and the built environment through the design of a spatial enclosure.
This enclosure must provide shelter, and accommodate the basic needs of at least one occupant, serving to protect them from changing climatic conditions.
Constructing for Equity 01 In this unit, you will be introduced to the technological principles, civil regulations, and societal challenges that inform contemporary building construction.
We will outline two key challenges to structure your thinking - social justice and equitable space, and the climate crisis, and the diversity of approaches needed to tackle it.
Briefs and positions 01 You’ll prepare a basic set of briefing materials that will inform and guide your development of a small-scale design proposal in the subsequent design unit Design 02 – Iterate and Adapt.
To achieve this we want you to engage in creative studio-based speculation, professional site or scenario analysis and culturally critical research.
Opportunity As you start Term 2, Opportunity Week is an intensive week of activity conceived and undertaken in collaboration with external partners, with the aim of broadening knowledge and skills.
Projects 02 Building on the knowledge gained in Briefs and Positions 01 , you’ll undertake a small building design project, using existing and new skills to produce your work.
We want you to speculate and engage with design as an agent of social, political, economic, environmental, and ultimately architectural change.
The project proposal will be to reuse or transform a small unused or underused building to become multi-use.
Critical Analysis 01 We want you to understand that the role of the architect is not always in isolation.
This means seeing that objects, spaces, and systems can be designed and built by ‘constellations’ of different actors, in which the designer is situated.
We’ll show you this through critical engagement with histories and theories of spatial and object design practice.
Material and digital practices This unit introduces you to basic ideas around representation as a critical practice, and core theories of the design and production of small-scale objects in 2D print and 3D physical form.
Working between the physical and virtual worlds, you’ll build the foundation on which you begin to develop your visual communication skills and technological competence.
ATOM activities ATOM activities are tiny pieces of individual learning that facilitate interdisciplinary exposure across the university.
Launch Launch Week for the second year will be spent gearing up for your study objectives and re-orientating after your first summer break.
Project 03 In this unit we want you to explore and interrogate a landscape and develop small scale architectural interventions within it, understanding the importance of the spaces between, how human settlements may have formed and deformed the landscapes around them, the ecologies that exist in these spaces, and strategies of care that act as cultural elements in the environment.
You will explore the relationships between interior and exterior spaces and how the architectural interventions that we make may be experienced by those who inhabit them.
Constructing for Equity 02 In this unit, you will expand your knowledge of the technological principles, civil regulations, and societal challenges that inform contemporary building construction.
You’ll look at how non-western perspectives, culturally diverse contexts and vernacular practices can inform low-carbon approaches to building.
Briefs & Positions 02 In this unit, you’ll prepare a developed set of briefing materials that will inform and guide your development of a medium-scale design proposal in the subsequent design unit Projects 04.
You’ll do this through three processes - creative studio-based speculation, professional site or scenario analysis and culturally critical research.
Opportunity The second term begins with Opportunity Week, an intensive week of activity conceived and undertaken in collaboration with external partners.
Projects 04 With the knowledge you’ve gained across the year you’ll be challenged to complete a medium-scale building design project, which interrogates a complex set of functional programs.
You will do so in the context of the city and its people, the environment and climate; addressing contemporary social, aesthetic, and political concerns.
Pathways and Mentors In this unit, we’ll challenge you to reflect on the design skills, knowledge and techniques you are acquiring and identify potential alternative career paths that you might not yet have considered.
In the course of this unit, all students will have the opportunity to engage with a design professional in a structured series of engagement and mentoring sessions.
Critical Analysis 02 The unit, a progression from your first year of study, is primarily concerned with theory and represents a step-up in challenging you to interrogate ideas, designs and actions.
Specifically, it asks you to use theory to develop understandings of the ways in which ideas are both contextual and connected to wider logics and world views.
Launch For your final Launch Week, you’ll spend the week getting ready for your final year of study, and re-orientating after your first summer break.
Projects 05 This unit has two components – a portfolio and report, all pertaining to your detailed proposals for a housing scheme.
The portfolio will focus on design of the masterplan down to the spatial design of an individual home, while your report will explore the legal and procedural characteristics of practicing as an architect in the UK in relation to your emerging design.
You will be introduced to the RIBA Professional Experience and Development Resource (PEDR) document submission and “Year Out” requirements.
Critical Analysis 03 You’ll produce a piece of self-directed research on a subject that is related to the historical, theoretical and critical concerns of your subject discipline.
The subject matter will be informed by the specific interests that you have developed on your course to date.
Briefs and Positions 03 This unit is about preparing an advanced set of briefing materials to inform and guide your development of a medium-scale design proposal for the Final Major Project.
You will consider a context at the scale of an expanded spatial or material network, through creative studio-based speculation, professional site or situation analysis and culturally critical research.
Opportunity Opportunity Week is an intensive week of activity conceived and undertaken in collaboration with external partners.
Projects 06 Your final unit will see you complete a large building design project that establishes a sophisticated dialogue between topography, local, social and political issues, city scale structures, regional objectives and the way that these impact the lives of individuals.
The Architects Registration Board (ARB) will cease prescription of all Part 1 Qualifications (all UK undergraduate Architecture degrees) from 31 December 2027.
This is a national change affecting all university Architecture qualifications in the UK, not a UCA-specific change.
This represents an exciting change in Architectural education.
If you’re scheduled to complete your course June 2028 or later you will still graduate with a BA (Hons) Architecture degree, but the ‘Part 1’ exemption will no longer exist nor be required to progress your architectural career.
Instead, all Architecture students in the UK will receive ARB recognition at the end of a later Master’s qualification .
There are dedicated open plan studio spaces for group tutorials and personal working.
Other campus facilities include: laser cutters, 3D printers, virtual reality lab, 3D workshop with machines for working in wood, metals, plastics and ceramics and fully-equipped computer studios with Macs and PCs programmed with industry-standard software for design and animation.
Room: EO.01
This workshop contains:
Our course enjoys excellent relationships with a number of high-profile organisations, which are listed below:
Many of our graduates typically progress to one-year paid placements at architects’ offices, before continuing their studies at Master's level.
Our alumni have secured rewarding careers internationally and nationally for more than 60 years.
Recent employment opportunities have included working at the offices of Zaha Hadid, Norman Foster, Will Alsop and Sauerbruch Hutton.
Qualification as an architect requires two years' further study, followed by a final year of paid placement, a short professional practice course and examination for Part 3.
We offer Part 2, a Master of Architecture course , to students who achieve a 2.1 or above at degree level.
We also offer an MA in Architecture , which is added to your Part 2 qualification as well as the Postgraduate Certificate in Professional Practice in Architecture – Part 3* (This course has received accreditation from ARB and is in the process of being accredited with RIBA).
"The campus was really important to me as the facilities were excellent and the staff all seemed really helpful.
After doing my foundation course, UCA was the only place I applied to for the Architecture degree, because I loved the atmosphere."
A GCSE pass at grade 9-4/A*-C (or international equivalent) in Mathematics is required.
For international applicants the equivalent of 128 UCAS tariff points/A level ABB is required for BA Architecture and the equivalent of 64 UCAS tariff points is required for BA Architecture with Integrated Foundation Year.
Please contact our International Admissions Team for more information.
View Architecture portfolio advice
The standard entry requirements* for this course are o ne of the following:
And five GCSE passes at grade 9-4/A*-C including Mathematics and English (or Functional Skills English/Key Skills Communication Level 2).
Other relevant and equivalent L evel 3 UK and international qualifications are considered on an individual basis, and we encourage students from diverse educational backgrounds to apply.
The standard entry requirements for these courses are one of the following:
Programme Director Architecture, Associate Professor
Lecturer/Senior Lecturer Architecture and Design
Senior Lecturer Architecture
Reader in Social and Political Design
Senior Lecturer Industrial Design and Design Media

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ma-architecture:
Architecture shapes how we live, how we relate to our environments, and how we imagine the future.
The MA Architecture degree at UCA Canterbury is for designers who want to explore these ideas through a creative, critical and culturally engaged lens.
This one-year architecture postgraduate degree invites you to rethink architecture not just as a profession, but as a spatial and social practice.
We see architecture as a way of interpreting the world, from the structures we inhabit to the systems that shape our lives.
You’ll investigate how architecture connects with ecology, identity, heritage and technology, and how design can act as both a response to, and an agent of change.
This masters degree in architecture is ideal for international graduates and others who want to develop their design thinking outside of the UK’s formal architectural registration pathway.
Whether you have a background in architecture or a related discipline, this course offers you a space to deepen your understanding, question assumptions and explore your own trajectory as a designer.
Studio dialogue, seminars and critique will develop your ability to connect your work to the larger, global conversations about how we use and shape space.
You’ll engage with the ideas of sustainability, equity, temporality and scale, and consider how your own practice contributes to those conversations.
A major self-directed project is at the heart of your year studying architecture with us.
But alongside this, you’ll work through a series of experimental studies, using digital and physical tools to prototype, test and refine your design thinking.
Rigorous process development underpins the course, encouraging you to interrogate ideas through making and iteration.
Our architecture studios are a shared space for conversation and exchange.
You’ll work alongside - and collaborate with - students from MA Interior Design and MA Product Design .
This will broaden your perspective and open your mind to new possibilities for how architecture can operate in the world.
An experienced team of architects, designers, and researchers will support you throughout your postgraduate architecture degree.
You'll also hear from visiting practitioners across academia and industry.
Study visits and project-led learning are also included to help connect your work to real-world examples.
By the end of your architecture masters degree you’ll have built a portfolio that reflects your ideas, values and identity as a spatial thinker.
Whether your path lies in design, research, policy or further study, this course will give you the tools to ask better questions, and to explore new ways of answering them through architecture.
The Pre-Masters course is taught at UCA Farnham and once completed you move to UCA Canterbury for your Masters course.
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our MA Architecture degree:
A one-year course of advanced study for furthering your research skills and specialising within your discipline.
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Architecture students may be interested in.
Launch This intensive week of study is to help you get ready for starting your course, and getting to know your course staff, peer group and the school community in greater depth.
Activities include a multi-story guest lecture super session, an all staff pecha kucher, Canterbury and surroundings walking orientation tours and a studio launch collaborative making project.
Experimentation and Innovation A space for orientation, adventure, and exploration of your subject and practice, this unit provides opportunities to develop and discover new perspectives on design, analytical techniques and production methods.
In so doing it will situate your current and future practice, expanding your critical framework for the units ahead.
Research and Professional Contexts 1 Designed to help you develop advanced skills in research, conceptual understanding, appropriate analysis techniques and application of knowledge, this unit will help position you within the contextual foundations which support the past and future of your discipline.
Opportunity Opportunity Week is an intensive week of activity conceived and undertaken in collaboration with an external partner(s).
Typically, this will sit outside the your subject areas, and could cover topics including politics, economics, business, culture or philosophy.
Studio Practice Studio Practice’ extends your research and development from term one and acts as a design accelerator unit.
In the early stages, in collaboration with your specialist tutor, you will formulate a research and project proposal to be carried out through the remainder of your studies.
This unit is an intensive, fast paced, and productive “engine” of your course, the outcome of which will be a comprehensive and sophisticated project that demonstrates a developing mastery of your practice.
Research and Professional Contexts 2 Research and Professional Contexts 2 further extends and focuses your research, critical analysis, and communication skills through two components.
The first is a contextual practice presentation, in support of the development of your individual project.
This should demonstrate your ability to situate your research, experimentation, and knowledge in a wider field, and express your comprehension of the impact of your work on that field.
The second is a collaborative practice project where you can work with others on a collectively defined brief.
Final Realisation The culmination of your Masters course, this unit gathers all of your prior research, experimentation, concept development, and contextual analysis into a focused synoptic outcome.
The project is a natural continuation and resolution of the work you began and the goals that you set yourself in Studio Practice and includes the dissemination of your work to external audiences.
At UCA we have a number of financial support information available to assist you with the cost of your studies.
Discover what support you might qualify for please see our scholarships and fee discounts .
Recent guest lecturers and visiting critics have included:
There are a huge and diverse number of pathways to follow upon completing your postgraduate course:
Our team of specialised tutors will provide support to students, developing unique skills that provide a developed and strong base to make their career pathways clear and prosperous.
With a broad skill set developed through workshops, lectures and given projects, several job avenues have opened to our recent graduates:
Programme Director Design
Senior Lecturer Architecture & Design
Senior Lecturer – Product and Furniture Design
Lecturer of Interior Architecture & Design and Stage 2 & 3 Convenor
"The MA gave me the time and space I needed to explore my ideas and also the ability to be highly curatorial.
I emerged with a comprehensive appreciation for the relationship between my architectural design work and the means by which it might be represented and disseminated, which equipped me perfectly to achieve at industry level."
Adam Hiles
View postgraduate portfolio advice
Raymond Chen, MA Architecture, UCA Canterbury
Bingyue Liu, MA Architecture, UCA Canterbury
Way Binn Yap, MA Architecture, UCA Canterbury
Ying Gao, MA Architecture, UCA Canterbury
Jiuping Li, MA Architecture, UCA Canterbury
Mengjiao Ou, MA Architecture, UCA Canterbury
Deep Prajapati, MA Architecture, UCA Canterbury
Zhi Gong, MA Architecture, UCA Canterbury
Xiao Yuhan, MA Architecture, UCA Canterbury
Chengyu Hu, MA Architecture, UCA Canterbury
Zain Qureshi, MA Architecture, UCA Canterbury

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/bsc-automotive-transport-design:
Utilise advanced facilities including VR technology and 3D scanning
Question and rethink the way we approach personal and mass transit in society
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our BSc (Hons) Automotive & Transport Design degree:
112 UCAS point
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Automotive & Transport Design students may be interested in.
Launch Launch Week is the first week of your academic journey in the Canterbury School of Architecture and Design and follows on directly from Induction Week.
It is an intensive week spent gearing up for your year’s study objectives and getting to know your course staff, peer group and the school community in greater depth.
Design 01 – Sketch and Build You’ll engage with a series of design projects that will help introduce core skills in concept development and representation, through sketching, model making, diagramming, and time-based media.
Using these skills you’ll respond to a design challenge and use digital tools to record and reflect upon the design process.
Design for Equity 01 In this unit, you’ll be introduced to the technological principles, civil regulations, and societal challenges that inform contemporary design and manufacture, with a view to using and engaging with them for your future studies.
Briefs and Positions 01 You’ll prepare a basic set of briefing materials to inform and guide your development of a small-scale design proposal, which you’ll make later in the year.
Opportunity Opportunity Week is an intensive week of activity conceived and undertaken in collaboration with an external partner(s), and it’ll be driven by the partner’s external knowledge and area of practice – so it could cover anything from politics or law to sport and wellbeing.
Design 02 – Iterate and Adapt You’ll explore the fundamental processes of design practice through spatial or product analysis, deconstruction, documentation and augmentation.
To help with this, you’ll learn sketching and drawing, assembly and disassembly, accurate survey and measurement in 3D space, material analysis and documentation of both the physical space or product and their intended programme or market.
Critical Analysis 01 The designer is not a single figure working in isolation, and in this unit, you’ll learn how and why.
Through critical engagement with histories and theories of spatial and object design practice, you’ll consider the idea that spaces, objects, and systems all reflect and inform a society’s beliefs, customs and ideas.
Material and Digital Practices This unit will introduce you to basic ideas around representation as a critical practice, and core theories of the design and production of small-scale objects in 2D print and 3D physical form.
Working between the physical and virtual worlds, you will establish a range of techniques in digital and physical representation, building the foundation on which you begin to develop your visual communication skills and technological competence.
PLE Digital Outcomes The PLE Digital Outcome is a purposefully edited, self-directed record of your constructive engagement with and presence on digital media platforms across the year.
ATOM Activities ATOM activities are tiny pieces of diverse individual learning that facilitate interdisciplinary exposure across the university’s curriculum and beyond.
They are chosen by you according to your personal interest.
Launch Launch Week for your second year is all about getting you ready for your next year of study, and re-orientating after your first summer break.
Design 03 – Fabricate and Form You’lll enhance your approaches to design development and conceptualisation through the further refinement of sketching, model making and visualisation skills, with specific focus on digital representation methodologies, and material and manufacturing constrains and opportunities.
Design for Equity 02 You’ll focus on how non-Western perspectives, culturally diverse contexts and vernacular practices can inform low-carbon approaches to spatial and product design.
You will also critically explore the (contested) tools and practices that our industries use to assess ‘environmental’ concerns; developing a holistic understanding of embodied energy costs and the potential disposal or destruction, recycle, or reuse of the spaces and products that you design.
Briefs and Positions 02 In this unit, you’ll prepare a developed set of briefing materials to guide your development of a medium-scale design proposal in a subsequent design unit.
Design 04 – Context and Constraint You’ll expand your conceptual approach to constraint-based design by undertaking a detailed design project which brings together your technical, conceptual ideation, iterative testing, and narrative production skills in a confident and holistic way.
Pathways and Mentors In Pathways and Mentors, you will reflect on the design skills, knowledge and techniques you are acquiring and identify potential alternative career paths that you might not yet have considered.
Critical Analysis 02 This unit builds on understandings from Critical Analysis 01, and issues introduced in the preceding Briefs and Positions unit, to consider how ideas are socially, historically, and culturally located.
PLE Digital Outcomes The PLE Digital Outcome is a purposefully edited, self-directed record of your constructive, level 4 engagement with and presence on, digital media platforms across the year.
ATOM Activities ATOM activities are tiny pieces of diverse individual learning that facilitate interdisciplinary exposure across the university’s curricular and beyond.
Launch For your final Launch week, you’ll be gearing up for your final year of study through a range of activities, which could include a multi-story guest lecture super session, an all staff pecha kucher, Canterbury and surroundings walking orientation tours or a studio launch collaborative making project.
Design 05 – Pitch and Prototype This unit challenges you to engage with exciting new technologies and to produce compelling digital and physical prototypes through the rapid acquisition and integration of new skills within your workflows.
You’ll go on developing your individual and group working skills and start to experience the pace of work in practice as you move toward employment.
Critical Analysis 03 This unit provides a framework for you to establish your own personalised research trajectory.
You’ll produce a piece of self-directed research on a subject that is related to the historical, theoretical and critical concerns of your subject discipline.
The subject matter will be informed by the specific interests that you have developed.
Briefs and Positions 03 In the Briefs and Positions 03 unit you will prepare an advanced set of briefing materials that will inform and guide your development of a medium-scale design for your Final Major Project.
Major Project After defining your own brief and with the support of your tutor, you will develop and complete an expansive project that uses all your skills in design, making, research and project development.
The finished work should reflect your deep understanding of contemporary practice.
There are open plan studio spaces for each year of the course, used for group tutorials and personal working.
Facilities for the course include: laser cutters, 3D printers, a virtual reality lab, a 3D workshop with machines for working in wood, metals, plastics and ceramics, and fully-equipped computer studios with Macs and PCs running software for design and animation.
Graduates should expect to leave their studies with an in-depth knowledge of how the industry is evolving alongside social and economic change, as well as the practical skills needed to excel in design-based career paths.
This includes options such as:
View Automotive & Transport Design portfolio advice
The standard entry requirements* for this course is one of the following:

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ba-body-art:
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our BA (Hons) Body Art degree:
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Body Art students may be interested in.
An introduction to Body Art BA (Hons)
In your first year, you’ll be introduced to the history, theories and creative techniques of body art, learning about different types of body art, including tattooing, body modification, and transhuman enhancement.
You’ll also develop an understanding of the cultural and psychological factors that influence people's decisions to engage in body art, and will critique its cultural significance.
Units in this year of study are as follows:
Body Art Modes Welcome to Body Art - this unit is your introduction to the course, where you’ll be encouraged to explore the full range of what body art can be.
You’ll investigate different modes of using the body as a canvas, site, agenda, performance, form, sculpture, and message.
This includes conceptual and experimental approaches, such as casting, photography, performance, drawing on the body, recording, documenting, and activism.
The aim is to open your mind to the diverse artistic possibilities within body art.
Body Art Techniques With an emphasis on drawing, digital imaging, and non-invasive tattoo techniques, you’ll be introduced to key technical skills for body art.
You’ll explore both hand-drawn and digital design practices and learn to translate these designs into body art, with a focus on line work, shading, and using non-invasive technologies for body art applications.
Body Art Practices You’ll dive into the practical exploration of body art techniques, emphasising experimentation and the application of a wide range of creative processes.
You’ll explore how body art can serve as a vehicle for cultural, social, and personal expression and be encouraged to push the boundaries of how the body can function as a canvas.
Techniques covered include tattooing, body modification (using non-invasive methods), casting, photography, performance, drawing directly on the body, and conceptual installation.
Body Art Histories This unit explores the rich historical development of body art, tracing its evolution from ancient cultural rituals to contemporary global movements.
You’ll study the origins, significance, and transformations of tattooing, body modification, scarification, and other forms of body art across diverse cultures and time periods.
The content will also focus on the diverse and intersectional influences that have shaped body art practices, offering an inclusive perspective on how different communities have contributed to its evolution.
In your second year, you’ll delve deeper into the history of body art, particularly in ancient tribal practice.
You’ll learn advanced techniques for creating body art and investigate emerging trends in the field.
You’ll also examine its role in performance and significance in terms of identity, politics, and social status.
Body art as a form of therapy and healing and the core principles of ethics and responsibilities will also be explored in this year.
Body Art Ethics and Aesthetics This unit integrates the ethical and aesthetic considerations in body art practice.
You’ll explore ethical challenges such as consent, cultural appropriation, and the psychological implications of body modification, alongside examining how aesthetic choices influence identity, transformation, and expression.
You’ll think critically about how their work affects others and society and to creatively express these complex ideas through body art.
Professional Context You’ll explore different career pathways, industry standards, and professional networks, developing the skills to effectively navigate the creative sector.
You’ll gain insights into the "who, what, where, and how" of your career future - identifying potential employers, clients, networks, and opportunities to establish yourself as a professional.
Body Art: Identity, Society and Culture You’ll examine how body art practices - including tattooing, piercing, and other forms of body modification - are influenced by and contribute to the construction of individual and collective identities.
You’ll look at theoretical frameworks, including cultural studies, sociology, and anthropology, to analyse how body art intersects with issues such as gender, ethnicity, class, and globalisation.
Creative Project You’ll undertake an independently driven creative project, focusing on the complete creative process - from ideation and concept development to execution.
The emphasis is on learning how to generate, refine, and realise an idea through experimentation, reflection, and adaptation.
You’ll negotiate the focus of your project with tutors, ensuring alignment with your reative vision while learning to articulate and develop your concepts into a coherent body of work.
Your final year will see you develop a personal portfolio and preparing for a career in the field, including professional practice and entrepreneurial skills, as well as marketing and promotion.
You’ll also undertake advanced research, culminating in the completion of your final major project.
Body Art Research You’ll develop advanced research into the practice of body art, allowing you to explore an area of interest.
You’ll use creative practice as a means of inquiry and engage deeply with your chosen topic, whether it be cultural, aesthetic, technological, or social aspects of body art.
The outcome of this unit will be a substantial research project that may take the form of a visual, performative, or practice-based piece, rather than a traditional written thesis.
New Horizons This unit presents another opportunity to build upon professional development so you can graduate with confidence.
You’ll develop a comprehensive understanding of the creative industries, enabling you to make informed decisions about your professional careers, and learn how to effectively position themselves in the industry, understand the professional requirements, and establish the necessary connections to succeed.
Major Project The culmination of your studies will be realised through your final Major Project unit, where you’ll develop and produce a substantial body of independent work that reflects your personal interests and ambitions.
You’ll define their own creative direction - whether through tattooing, performance art, digital interventions, wearable art, or other body-based practices.
The focus is on managing the entire creative process from conception to final presentation.
Facilities at UCA Canterbury include large purpose-built studios, used for group tutorials and personal working and a 3D workshop with machines for working in wood, metals, plastics and ceramics.
There are also workshops for plaster and rubber casting, glass casting, slumping, fusing and enamelling (kiln), ceramic bisque and gloss firing, low melt metal casting, and carving (wood, stone and polystyrene).
Finally, there are printmaking studios for relief and block printing, intaglio and screen-printing.
View Body Art portfolio advice

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ba-business-management-top-up:
Elevate your qualification with this top-up degree
Build your knowledge, skills and confidence in business
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our BA (Hons) Business and Management (top-up)  degree:
Equivalent to the final year of an undergraduate degree, this course enables you to build upon an existing qualification such as a foundation degree or an HND.
240 credits from a relevant degree
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Business and Management (top-up)  students may be interested in.
You will study the following units:
Business Strategy and Decision Making in the Creative Industries In the contemporary landscape, decision-making has become an intricate task, with leaders, managers, and executives grappling with uncertainties influenced by external factors beyond their control or prediction.
In this unit you’ll explore a transformative approach, which turns decision-making into an intelligent and insightful process and provides a robust framework of effective and replicable solutions.
Data Analytics in the Creative Industries This unit will equip you with the data analytics knowledge and skills required for working in the data-driven global creative industries.
Working with existing or self-generated data sets, you will explore and develop a critical understanding of the fundamentals of data analytics and its use in the global creative industries, including the differences between descriptive and predictive analytics; the ethical, social, legal, and economic considerations of data collection and analysis; and the statistical and data visualisation tools required to produce meaningful insights into the global creative industries.
Operations and Supply Chain Management in the Creative Industries This unit explores the basic concepts concerned with the production and creation of products (goods and/or services) by organisations from the global creative industries.
The overall aim is for you to critically examine a range of operations and supply chain management strategies, systems and technologies, and to plan, design and develop suitable and effective operations and supply chain configurations for given scenarios in the global creative industries.
Degree Project, Creative and Cultural Industries In this final unit, you will apply knowledge, skills and experience gained throughout your course, to create a distinctive piece of work for your degree project.
The purpose of your degree project is to successfully identify an opportunity within the global creative industries, which aligns with your career aspirations.
Through academic and industry research, you will create a project concept relating to the global creative industries.
You will choose between a practical project (e.g.
the creation of a business start-up) or an academic project (e.g.
a dissertation) and deliver your project from initial idea to completed work.
Year one (equivalent to year 3 of BA course)
Please note, these details are for 2026 entry and could be subject to change for other years of entry.
Tuition Fees for 2026/27 will be available here as soon as they confirmed.
For information the fee for 2025/26 entry is £9,535
Tuition fees for 2026/27 will be available here as soon as they confirmed.
For information the fee for 2025/26 entry is £9,535 (see fee discount information)
Fees for 2026/27 will be available here as soon as they confirmed.
For information the fee for 2025/26 entry is  £17,500
Please see the Additional Course Costs section of the Course Information Document for more details of the costs you may incur
Our Creative Business facilities at our Epsom campus feature dedicated studios, study areas and digital media suites equipped with Macs and PCs which are programmed with specialist software including Adobe Creative Suite.
On campus there's a modern library with a wealth of books and publications, photography studios and print studios.
Our Business and Management degree course will enable you to pursue a range of careers including:
Your training on this course will prepare you for a wide range of postgraduate courses.
We offer postgraduate opportunities in Business and Management and we will help you find the correct course for you and support you in your application should further study be for you.
Find out more about our postgraduate courses
BA (Hons) course (top-up)
The standard entry requirements* for this course are:
And/or Accreditation of Prior Experiential Learning (APEL)
In recognition that you may already have a relevant professional qualification, or appropriate working experience in the relevant industries, APEL may be accepted for entry on to the course.
This will be based on the partnership articulations and will be assessed on a case by case basis.
Portfolio requirements
These courses don't require a portfolio but, if you're UK-based and you receive an offer, we'd still like to meet you at an Applicant Day.
The entry requirements for these courses will depend on the country your qualifications are from, please check the equivalent qualifications for your country:
Any additional entry requirements listed in the UK requirements section, e.g., subject requirements, work experience or professional qualifications, also apply to international applicants applying with equivalent qualifications.
Portfolio requirements
This courses does not require a portfolio.
English language requirements
To study at UCA, you'll need to have a certain level of English language skill.
And so, to make sure you meet the requirements of your course, we ask for evidence of your English language ability, please check the level of English language required:
Campus: UCA Epsom

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ba-business-management:
The chance to specialise in an area of the creative industries you enjoy
Prepare for a career in a major company or as an entrepreneur
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our BA (Hons) Business and Management degree:
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Business and Management students may be interested in.
Daniel talks about studying Business and Management
Introduction to Business Business and Management is the process of planning, organising, directing, and controlling the activities of a business or organisation to achieve its goals and objectives.
In this introductory unit, you’ll gain a broad overview of business and management in a globalised world, with a specific focus on the cultural and creative industries.
Introduction to the Creative & Cultural Industries The global creative economy is one of the world’s fastest-growing sectors, creating employment and income, promoting innovation, and contributing to societies’ well-being.
You’ll explore the dynamic and multifaceted landscape of the Creative and Cultural Industries, including design, media, arts, and heritage.
Fundamentals of Marketing and Social Media You’ll be introduced to foundational concepts, theories and models used in marketing and social media, specifically in terms of how they operate as a business function.
This unit is designed to help you gain a sound understanding of marketing and marketing principles and will enable you to apply best practices in marketing and social media in future coursework.
Organisational Behaviour This unit is designed to develop your understanding of business and management with a focus on human aspects, which influence and affect organisations at the individual (micro), work group (meso), and organisational level (macro).
It will introduce you to the key concepts, thinkers and analytical frameworks in the field, and to critical theories and practical knowledge of how people, management and organisations co-exist.
Industry Brief: Creative Thinking for Business and Entrepreneurship Creative thinking is vital for stimulating innovative and divergent thinking in business and entrepreneurship.
Gamestorming, for example, offers a creative set of tools and practices to inspire creativity, one of several strategies that enables free thinking and playfulness in the business context.
This unit provides you with knowledge and experience of different tools and techniques you can use in your studies and professional practice to encourage more expansive and insightful thinking.
You will study one of the following elective units:
Experience Economy In this unit you will explore experiences as a distinct fourth economic offering (beyond commodities, goods and services).
Using case studies from a range of businesses, this unit will focus on creative insights sought by businesses that aim to generate memorable experiences for their users, audiences and/or consumers.
Brand Logo and Design A brand is built of many things, and crucial amongst those are the visual and lived experience of the brand.
We can understand brand as the external image of a specific product or service that consumers connect with by identifying the name and logo.
Branding is essential to identify and leverage competitor advantage in a crowded marketplace.
It helps differentiate products and services from competitors and captures a target market, maximising customer loyalty and ensuring brand success.
Understanding the principles of design and brand building is an essential skill to have in Creative Industry.
Managing Creative People You’ll consider and reflect upon the key skills and attributes effectively manage creatives.
This unit will develop your understanding of the knowledge, skills, and personal qualities required to responsibly manage diverse teams in the cultural and creative industries.
Strategic Management: Funding, Finance, and Business Modelling You’ll integrate strategic management principles with funding, finance, and business modelling, as you are introduced to essential financial practices and management and the role of accounting and other information systems for planning, decision-making, and managing financial risk.
This unit will also introduce you to the role of business modelling within the global creative industries.
Consumer Behaviour in the Creative Industries You’ll examine key theoretical approaches and academic debates relating to consumption and consumer behaviour, and how these relate to the global creative industries.
Professional Practice: Your Professional Self This unit aims to prepare you for the development of your creative professional practice and equip you with the critical awareness of current and emerging trends in the global creative industries.
You’ll have opportunities to create and develop your professional network and think critically and creatively about how you can make a positive contribution to industry and how you present yourself professionally.
Creative Business Brief: Digital Futures You’ll critically reflect on the imminent challenges and opportunities created by new technology and innovation in different contexts within the global creative industries, and design your own mini-research project, which focuses on one key topic within this burgeoning area.
You’ll present it in a digital content format (for example, as a podcast, microsite, or short film) for a commercial and/or creative audience.
Project Management in the Creative Industries You’ll be given a sound understanding of project management principles and practices specifically tailored to the dynamic fields of creative industries and events management in this unit, exploring the unique challenges and opportunities that arise when managing projects in the creative sector.
Cross-Cultural Management This unit will introduce you to the importance of cross-cultural awareness and intercultural competence for business success in the global cultural and creative industries.
It will explore the risks, uncertainties, and topics of debate within intercultural creative business and management, inviting you to consider what kinds of sophisticated, proactive leadership skills are needed to ensure positive cross-cultural collaboration and cooperation.
Alongside international case studies, it includes an exploration and critical analysis of influential theories from management studies and global indicators of cultural context, including economic, political, social, and business issues across the world, allowing for comparison and discussion of key topics.
Creative Content: Analogue and Digital The focus of this unit is to continue building your knowledge of and experience with design approaches and methodologies, specifically related to both analogue and digital design.
The creative approach is specific to industry, encouraging outcomes through the approach of concept, vision and idea making.
Students are required to develop a range of physical proficiencies that utilise both analogue and digital skills that investigate, generate, articulate and communicate ideas and solutions applicable to standards, approaches, and methods practiced across the Creative Industries.
The combined approach to Analogue and Digital Design throughout disciplines and across multiple mediums is more relevant and necessary than ever, the art and skill of hand rendered design and quick digital ideation enables effective communication and concept share to be developed, discussed and agreed prior to any undertaking of finalised, potentially costly and labor-intensive end solutions.
Managing International Tours & Events In this unit, you will critically examine concepts and working practices related to the touring of arts and music events on an international level.
You will identify potential international markets for distinct cultural products and assess the feasibility of touring to those markets, considering financial and logistical aspects.
Through case studies from music, performing and fine arts, you will develop knowledge and critical understanding required to plan sustainable international tours across a range of disciplines and contexts.
Our Business and Management course will enable you to pursue a range of careers including:
Your training on this course will prepare you for a wide range of postgraduate courses .
Lecturer in Management for the Creative Industries
Lecturer in Creative Leadership
"This is a course with lots of promise and it provides the perfect balance between the creative and theoretical aspects of Business Management."
Faris Hattab

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ba-business-innovation-management:
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our BA (Hons) Business Innovation & Management (top-up)  degree:
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Business Innovation & Management (top-up)  students may be interested in.
Business Bootcamp 5: Research & Methodologies (all students) This bootcamp is about examining research and methodologies and how this applies to your course.
We will discuss the different methods by which you can elicit findings whether quantitative (informing by data) or qualitative (informing from opinions) .
Business Seminar 4: Strategy & Decision Making (all students) More than ever, we are facing the challenge of making decisions under uncertainty against the backdrop of external factors that we cannot control or predict.
As leaders, managers and executives, making effective decisions in a time-conscious manner is crucial.
This bootcamp will enable you to transform decision-making into a smart and insightful process, providing a robust framework of effective and replicable solutions for better decisions and awareness of decision traps, as well as learning how to assess and choose high-value strategic options under the current climate of enormous uncertainty.
Business Bootcamp 6: Developing Enterprise (all students) This unit will provide you with the opportunity to develop your creative thinking skills in a collaborative environment, bringing greater understanding to how those ideas may develop and transform through product or enterprise development.
Degree Project (all students) In this final unit, you will apply all you’ve learned to create a distinctive piece of work for your degree project, the purpose of which is to allow you to identify opportunities successfully in your specialist subject area to promote and to develop your career.
Through research, you will independently identify and/or generate innovative opportunities within your specialist subject area.
Your portfolio will consist of a series of outcomes that showcase your knowledge, and your key attributes and skills as a reflective creative practitioner.
You will be expected to consider the theoretical and professional contexts of your exploration.
It is important that your work is contemporary, innovative, and representative of its target audience and industry sector.
You choose one unit from Cosmetics & Beauty: Contemporary Issues or Fashion: Contemporary Issues or Games: Contemporary Issues or Lifestyle Goods: Contemporary Issues
Cosmetics & Beauty: Contemporary Issues (elective unit) To effectively inspire a team, gain clients’ confident and connect authentically with audiences, effective leaders in the c osmetics and beauty industries need deep understanding of contemporary issues and opportunities.
In this unit you’ll gain knowledge on the influences that affect consumers, you’ll research and analyse diverse testimonies on experiences of work, creativity and collaboration in these industries.
Fashion: Contemporary Issues (elective unit) To effectively inspire a team, gain clients’ confident and connect authentically with audiences, effective leaders in f ashion need deep understanding of contemporary issues and opportunities.
You’ll learn about the influences affecting consumer behaviour to enable you to advise clients credibly , and research and analyse diverse testimonies on experiences of work, creativity and collaboration.
Games: Contemporary Issues (elective unit) To effectively inspire a team, gain clients’ confident and connect authentically with audiences, effective leaders in the g ames industry need a deep understanding of contemporary issues and opportunities.
On this u nit , learn about th e influences affecting consumers’ lifestyles, free-time, self-image, and choices to enable you to advise clients credibly.
You’ll also research and analyse diverse testimonies on experiences of work, creativity and collaboration.
Lifestyle Goods: Contemporary Issues (elective unit) To effectively inspire a team, gain clients’ confident and connect authentically with audiences, effective leaders in the l ifestyle industries need a deep understanding of contemporary issues and opportunities.
You’ll learn about consumer lifestyles, free-time, self-image, and choices to enable you to advise clients credibly.
And you’ll research and analyse diverse testimonies on experiences of work, creativity and collaboration in this specialised industr y .
You choose one unit from Music: Global Industry & Futures or Cosmetics & Beauty: Global Industry & Futures or Fashion: Global Industry & Futures or Games: Global Industry & Futures or Lifestyle Goods: Global Industry & Futures
Cosmetics & Beauty: Global Industry & Futures (elective unit) This unit explores the concept of future thinking and its influence on the global cos me tics and beauty industr ies .
You ’ll assess influence from culture and society and predict through recognition of global shifts and emerging trend manifestations.
You ’ll complete an in-depth study of the current macro environment, using the findings of this study to translate, validate and communicate a vision for the future of these industr ies .
Fashion: Global Industry & Futures (elective unit) You’ll explore the concept of future thinking and its influence on the global fashion indust ry .
A nalysing influence from culture and society and predicting through recognition of global shifts and emerging trend manifestations , you’ll complete an in-depth study of the current macro environment and use the findings of this study to translate, validate and communicate a vision for the future of fashion .
Games: Global Industry & Futures (elective unit) You’ll learn about the concept of future thinking and its influence on the global games indust r ies, analysing influence from culture and society, and predicting through recognition of global shifts and emerging trend manifestations.
You ’ll complete an in-depth study of the current macro environment, using the findings of this study to translate, validate and communicate a vision for the future of the gaming industries .
Lifestyle Goods: Global Industry & Futures (elective unit) You’ll the concept of future thinking and its influence on the global lifestyle indust r ies, analysing influence from culture and society and predicting through recognition of global shifts and emerging trend manifestations.
You’ll complete an in-depth study of the current macro environment, using the findings of this study to translate, validate and communicate a vision for the future .
Music: Global Industry & Futures (elective unit) You’ll explore the concept of future thinking and its influence on the global music industry.
You’ ll be analysing influence from culture and society and predicting through recognition of global shifts and emerging trend manifestations .
You’ll complete an in-depth study of the current macro environment, using the findings of this study to translate, validate and communicate a vision for the future.
You choose one unit from Data Mining for Marketers or Audience Evaluation or Predictive Analytics for Business.
Data Mining for Marketers (elective unit) Data Mining focuses on the use of automation to uncover relationships within datasets that can be used to support improved decision processes.
When employed in marketing, data mining will use customer, potential customer, supplier, and population data to reveal patterns in the data that have potential to improve the marketing process and outcomes.
You’ll be introduced to the processes of data mining using various tools including descriptive statistics , including SPSS and R.
Audience Evaluation (elective unit) T he concept of audiences has been broadened its meaning in recent years and is especially linked to the consumption of media and cultural productions.
Audiences have been described as ‘spectators’, and most recently they are regarded as ‘consumers’ who avidly consume a variety of entertainment forms and cultural activities.
This unit introduces audience research in the creative industries, aiming to evaluate how audiences play a key role in shaping creative and cultural experiences and marketing activities in contemporary business environments.
Predictive Analytics for Business (elective unit) Predictive analytics is a domain of statistical analysis that allows an organisation to extract information from data to predict patterns and trends.
This unit introduces predictive modelling and explains its application in business decisions.
It focusses on a set of statistical techniques including regression modelling, cluster analysis and survival analysis .
Completing our BA Business Innovation and Management (top-up) will enable to pursue a career in:
Find out more about our postgraduate business courses
"The best thing about being a UCA student is the unique personalised feedback and connections with the lecturers."
Anusha Gurung

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ba-ceramics-glass:
Learn through making using UCA's world-class facilities
Take part in live projects, professional competitions and placements
Benefit from UCA's long history of craft excellence
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our BA (Hons) Ceramics & Glass degree:
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Ceramics & Glass students may be interested in.
Course talk with Ashley Howard
Meet our Glass Technician
Did you know?
Our Glassblowing facilities
Launch For launch week we’ll introduce you to the term and year, review your summer project, undertake research visits, and undertake cross-programme activities with students on BA (Hons) Jewellery and Silversmithing.
Maker and materials Become familiar and confident within the studio and workshop environment, undertake visual and contextual research and explore the act of making through materials and processes as a key skill.
Equality, Diversity and Inclusion 1 You’ll investigate the theme of ‘otherness and belonging’ to question histories and practices used within the crafts industries which privilege dominant cultural values.
Engaging with themes of inclusivity and diversity situated in the context of global histories, cultures, and politics, you’ll explore and build an unbiased and progressive understanding of ethical approaches needed to challenge established industry principles.
2D CAD Cam You’ll be introduced to 2D digital software, including Adobe Illustrator and Photoshop, to give you a fundamental understanding of the role digital technology plays in the design and making process.
Opportunity Your Opportunity week features an introduction to the term, research visits, inductions and cross-programme activities with Jewellery and Silversmithing students.
Form and Surface You’ll be introduced to a range of production methods, including forming, mould-making, casting and surface application, as you learn the importance of being able to repeatedly reproduce components for design and making.
Professional Communication Learn a range of professional communication methods used for self-promotion, identify categories of makers and making and understand how that relates to your subject and future ambitions.
3D CAD Cam Extending your understanding for the potential of digital technology in the design and manufacturing process, this unit covers 3D computer aided design (CAD) application.
ATOM Activities ATOM activities are small pieces of individual learning that facilitate interdisciplinary exposure across UCA, and offer a flexible, impactful learning experience.
They expand your creative horizon by accessing learning topics that would not otherwise be scheduled on your course specific timetable.
PLE Digital Outcomes The PLE Digital Outcome is a purposefully edited, self-directed record of your constructive, level 4 engagement with and presence on, digital media platforms across the year.
Launch As we return after the summer break, we’ll go over the term ahead, review summer work, undertake project planning, begin planning for the placement unit and introduce you to peer groups, among other activities.
Body, Object, Space You’ll investigate the inter-relationships between body, object and space (interior/exterior) as an impetus for developing your work.
You will explore how location can positively inform creative practice.
The Conscious Practitioner Engaging with themes of inclusivity and diversity situated in the context of global histories, cultures, and politics, you’ll explore and build an unbiased and progressive understanding of the ethical visual and textual language needed to challenge industry ideologies.
Sustainability You’ll explore how materials and processes can be used and sourced sustainably, questioning and examining the ways in which we use and consume materials in designing and making, and the wider impact of our making choices.
Opportunity Your Opportunity Week will include a term introduction, project planning session, a project briefing, a personalised learning session and cross-programme activities with Jewellery and Silversmithing students.
Audience and Context You’ll further and develop your creative practice through research, designing and making, as you begin to define who you are as a ceramicist or glassmaker.
You’ll work more independently as you progress, and the work you produce here will be used later in the year.
External Context You’ll develop an understanding of your chosen industry by choosing either an industry placement or internship, or an industry-focused live project.
For either option, you’ll be required to keep an online reflective journal, which documents and professionally presents your progress throughout the unit, relating to your chosen option and evaluating your experience.
Exhibiting With the work you created in Audience and Context, you’ll work in teams to organise, curate and present a group exhibition.
This is an exciting opportunity to generate and experience audience engagement and external feedback on your work in a public context.
ATOM Activities and PLE Digital Outcome These units are a contination from your Year 1 ATOM Activities and PLE Digital Outcome units.
Launch For your final year, we’ll start with Launch Week, which this year features a review of summer work, a project planning session, research visits, managing autonomous practice and an introduction to thinking professionally.
Minor project: Exploratory Research and Development You’ll undertake an extensive body of exploratory research, as part of a negotiated period of work, including a written proposal that must clearly outline the scope of the project, paying particular attention to reflective and critical analysis of material testing and prototyping.
Professional Practice As you prepare for a working life beyond university, you’ll learn about the range of issues and tasks that will be important in planning your future, establishing aims and understanding elements of self-promotion and employment, self-employment or further study.
Opportunity For your final Opportunity Week, you’ll be introduced to your final term, undertake project reflection, project planning and research weeks.
Major Project: Realisation You’ll frame your individual Ceramics/Glass practice and realise a self-initiated, major project, which reflects individual potential.
It should have a professional impact suitable for public exhibition and/or industry focus, and will have an emphasis on contextual and critical analysis and evaluation on the positioning of your work.
If you opt to study the Professional Practice Year, for 2025 you will be required to pay a reduced tuition fee of £1,850.
Room: B05
This room contains 11 glass kilns of various sizes and styles.
Room: R10
Room: B20
Room: R13
Room: B03
This room contains a wet back spray booth and two 3D clay printers.
Room: B04
Room: B09
This room contains a slab clay roller.
Room: R12
Room: B09B
We enjoy close links with a range of professional organisations who are able to benefit our students in the form of work experience and deeper collaborations.
We work with a range of Worshipful companies and other organisations who are able to benefit our students in the form of bursaries, awards, seminars, workshops, commissions and competitions.
Our students have also taken part in competitions with the Lighting Industry Association and the British Art Medals Society.
Other links include:
As well as study abroad/international year opportunities, a European study trip is organised each year and is open to all year groups.
The course at Farnham is the UK’s representative of ISCAEE (International Symposium of Ceramics Art Education and Exchange).
Every two years staff and students visit an institute for a symposium.
Students exhibit their work and deliver lectures alongside their professors.
These are all published in ISBN publications.
They experience demonstrations from experts and cultural visits.
Countries visited include China, Japan, Korea and Turkey.
Many of our graduates become self-employed designers and makers, setting up their own businesses and also taking freelance commissions.
Others can go on to work in a number of different roles, including:
Senior Lecturer in Ceramics
Lecturer Silversmithing, Goldsmithing & Jewellery
Senior Lecturer in Glass
Heidi Nicholson
View Ceramics & Glass portfolio advice
The standard entry requirements* for foundation year entry is one of the following:

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/clearing/entry-requirements:
We always consider the strength of our applicants’ portfolios as well as their grades and we therefore may make offers which are lower than our standard entry criteria.
This might be because some students, who were expected to achieve the necessary results, may have fallen slightly short due to mitigating circumstances or difficulties.
We regularly admit students with a tariff much higher than our standard entry requirement.
And applicants who show potential but aren’t quite ready for a 3 year degree course may be offered a 4 year degree with an integrated foundation year which has a lower entry requirement.
If you would like to apply for a course that requires a portfolio and you have earned at least 32 UCAS points from an art or design-related subject, we can consider your application without needing to see a portfolio.
If you haven't earned at least 32 UCAS points from an art or design-related subject, we may ask you to submit a portfolio for consideration with your application.
Check out our blog on putting together a portfolio at short notice .
If we do request a portfolio, you can either upload this to an FTP like Dropbox or WeTransfer , or use an online platform like Flickr or Behance .
Our standard entry requirements are available on the individual course pages .
We sometimes accept Clearing students with grades lower than our standard entry requirements depending on the number of places available.
This is determined once A-level results have been received in August.
The amount entry requirements may lower will depend on the qualifications achieved in a related subject area or the strength of a portfolio (where required).

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/clearing/faqs:
Clearing is a part of the UCAS (University and Colleges Admissions Service) university application process.
It is a way for universities to fill spaces they’ve got left for the new academic year, and gives anyone who doesn’t hold an offer, or those who have changed their mind about where or what they want to study a chance of finding a university place.
Everyone can use Clearing to find a place at university, including if:
Clearing opens on 5 July 2025 .
If you already have your results you don't need to wait; you can apply today either directly to UCA or via UCAS.
If you’ve already applied through UCAS and have an offer of a place, you can still call us to see whether we can make you an offer for one of our courses.
If we do make you an offer and you decide to accept it, you can release yourself into Clearing which will withdraw you from any offers you’ve accepted from anywhere else.
The most important thing is - don’t panic!
The first thing to do is to log on to UCAS Hub and check the responses from your Firm and Insurance choices - some universities are flexible with “near miss” students, and might have accepted you anyway.
If you didn’t get either your firm or insurance choices, don’t worry.
Hop onto the UCAS website to see which universities have places available through Clearing on courses you want to study.
Then pick up the phone and speak to their admissions teams — they’re there to help.
Once you have your grades you can either apply online or call 012 5291 8240 .
Clearing is perfect for those who have changed their mind about what course they want to do or where they want to study.
At UCA, we regularly hear from students looking to switch from a different degree to one in a creative subject.
If you’re reconsidering your options, Clearing is an opportunity for you to investigate alternative courses and institutions.
Check out our courses , and if you see one you like, give us a call.
If you haven’t already made an application through UCAS, you can still call us.
If we’re able to make you an offer for one of our courses, we’ll explain what you’ll need to do next to get your offer set up with UCAS.
UCAS will list all the courses available on their Clearing page, and universities will also feature lots of information on their websites.
Remember, it’s not the whole university in Clearing, just individual courses, so look up the universities you’re interested in and see what they’ve got online.
A list of all UCA courses in Clearing can be found in our Clearing courses listings .
On that page you'll be able to search all available courses and see where they are taught.
We look at every Clearing applicant as an individual, and consider your application based on your experience, qualifications and personal attributes – and often by looking at your work.
This is why the phone call you make to us is so important – it’s your opportunity to tell us about you, and why you want to study the course.
The qualifications and grades you’ll need will depend on the course that you’re interested in and the number of places available.
If it turns out you aren’t quite ready to study a standard three-year degree course, we’ll have a chat with you about your options, and can usually offer an alternative which will prepare you to study for your degree the following year.
Alternatives include:
Four-year courses - Our four-year degree courses include an integrated foundation year at the start of the course, which enables you to develop your skills and portfolio before starting your degree course.
Definitely not!
This is a common misconception.
At UCA, we plan for some students to join us through Clearing when we allocate places, as we understand there are always last-minute changes in circumstance, and that people can have a change of heart.
You definitely don’t need to accept the first offer you get.
Do your research, call around, ask questions and make sure you’re picking the university that’s best for you.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/clearing/funding:
Aside from applying to university, the other big task is sorting out your funding and expenses for university.
This can be confusing and potentially overwhelming – but we’ve got you covered.
Our Fees & Funding pages contains everything you need to know about your university fees, how to fund your studies and your living costs while you’re with us.
Be sure to look into whether you qualify for additional funding support – you’ll find details for each level of study on our Fees & Funding pages .
If you haven’t applied for student finance yet, don’t worry.
It’s not too late, but you’ll need to do it as soon as you can.
Applications can take at least six weeks to process, so you might not get your first full payment straight away, but UCAS will help to support you.
Depending where in the UK you’re from, you’ll need to find the right student finance company to apply through:
To apply, visit the government website and you’ll find all the links you need for each student finance company.
Don’t forget – the sooner you apply, the sooner you’ll receive your payment.
If you’ve already applied for a student loan, you’ll need to update your details with the student finance company you’re using once you know which course you’ll be studying.
You should have an online account where you can log in and update the details – otherwise, you can give them a call.
Now you have your finances sorted out, the next thing to organise is your accommodation.
Whether you’re staying at university halls or renting privately, make sure you prioritise your rent in your budget.
For our most up-to-date accommodation prices, how to apply, and advice on finding private accommodation, visit our accommodation page .
Now that your fees are paid and your accommodation is sorted, what about living costs?
We’d suggest you budget around £35 a week for food, and check out our blogs on must-buys for uni , and sorting your student budget .
The nature of the courses we offer at UCA means that, in many cases, you may have to buy materials and equipment for your projects.
Because there’s a wide variation between each person’s requirements based on what kind of project they are working on, it’s difficult to give an estimated cost.
However, we’ll let you know the minimum requirements in your Course Information, which you’ll receive before you start your course.
A good habit which a lot of our students learn along the way is how to be thrifty and resourceful — where you can, buy things second-hand from other students, or in charity shops.
Many of the most unusual and useful items can come from the most unlikely places!
If you have a question that’s not covered by our Fees & Funding pages , feel free to contact us:
T: 01252 892883 E: enquiries@uca.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/clearing/clearing-top-tips:
We’re delighted you’re thinking of applying to UCA during clearing this year and unleashing your creativity with us.
Whether you’ve only just decided to apply, have changed your mind on what course you want to study or you don’t quite get the grades you were hoping for, we’re here to help you get the very best outcome from Clearing.
In short, clearing is a process where students like yourself get matched to university places that haven’t yet been filled.
You might be thinking that means the only places left are on courses no one wants – but trust us, this is not the case.
There are going to be places on some this year, and they’re likely to be quickly snapped up too!
In fact, clearing is a very popular choice for students – in 2022, more than 53,000 students in the UK found their courses in this way.
Maybe this year you’ll be joining them!
Once you have your results, get in touch with us as soon as you can.
Clearing places can fill up quickly.
Being more proactive will improve your chances of getting the course you want.
You can either apply online or call 012 5291 8240 .
This might seem like an obvious tip, but it bears repeating that if you are thinking of joining us through clearing – or any other university of course – get all your details together in advance ready for making your calls.
So that will include the phone numbers you’ll need (ours is 01252 918240), your results, including the full qualification name, your UCAS ID (if you have one) and a list of the courses you’re interested in in front of you when you contact our clearing team.
When you apply to a course with us through clearing, our course teams may well want to take a closer look at your application, and with that they could ask to see a portfolio.
We love seeing portfolios – they give us such a fantastic insight into who you are, your creative potential and processes, and mean more to us than your grades.
So, if you are considering us in clearing, we’d advise you make a start on putting together a portfolio now, just in case.
You can look at our for general guidance, and our blog about for some top tips.
Sometimes there’s nothing better than just having a chat about things.
There are several ways you can find out more and ask your questions – there’ll be opportunities on our Instagram page and you can use chat directly to our students to find out what they think about studying here.
If you have any questions about the Clearing process you can submit our Clearing enquiry form .
Another way to find out more is to come along to one of our Open Days or take our campus tours.
On our Open Days you can tour our campuses, attend talks, speak with our academics, meet our technicians and quiz our students on life at UCA.
If you want to come along, just sign up on our .
We also have run frequent campus tours that you can book online.
Using UCAS Clearing Plus matches you to courses similar to your original choices at universities that have availability.
You'll be able to express an interest in courses you are matched to and tell UCAS if you’re happy to be contacted directly.
Clearing Plus is only open to those of you who are currently studying A-Levels, BTECs, Scottish Highers, Access to Higher Education Diplomas, or International Baccalaureates.
It’s important to note, however, that not all universities use the service, so you’ll be matched based on the assumption that you still want to study a similar course to the ones you originally applied to.
Your form tutors in college will be around on results day, and so will your friends and family.
Don't hesitate to ask them for some help when you're trying to get everything ready – second opinions can be really handy.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/clearing/open-letter:
You may have read our open letter to parents and carers…
Read the open letter
We’re writing on behalf of those that didn’t choose games over geography, marketing over medicine or animation over accounting due to pressure from their parents and carers.
For nearly 170 years we have delivered creative education.
We acknowledge it’s only natural for you to feel uncertain when your child says they want to pursue a creative subject.
We understand the hopes and concerns that come with guiding your child’s higher education and subject choice.
You want the best for them – a secure future.
This is reinforced in a report by UCAS ( Project Next Generation ), which states parents want to guide their children towards the pathways that have the best capacity for earning and stability.
We want to reassure that ‘a creative choice is a career choice,’ with the creative industries worth £124 billion a year to the UK economy and support more than 2.4 million jobs.
Our letter is not intended to reprimand, we’re simply asking you to support your child and have confidence in them choosing what they love.
We have seen time and time again, children not pursuing their creative dreams, which now more than ever, have a secure future.
Clearing support is available on our dedicated webpage for parents and carers , as well as those wanting to make the creative choice.
From Architecture and Film Production to Marketing, Fashion, Game Design, Business and more, a wide range of creative futures begin at UCA.
View all Clearing courses Clearing guide for parents & carers

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/clearing/advice-for-teachers-and-career-advisors:
We know clearing can be a very busy and stressful time for both students and staff, and we want to provide as much guidance as possible to help smooth the process and get your students a place at university on the course they want to study.
If you’re a teacher or careers adviser, here are some FAQs which might help you assist your students.
If you’ve got an enquiry which isn’t covered here, just fill out the form at the end of the page, and we’ll do our best to help.
Once your students have their grades they can either apply online or call 012 5291 8240 .
Lines are open from 9am – 5pm Monday to Friday.
Usually, if the student meets our academic entry requirements and there are spaces on the course, we will indicate whether we can make an offer on the call but there may be instances where the course team need to consider the application before an offer can be made.
As we consider the strength of our applicants’ portfolios as well as their grades, any applicants who don't meet our academic entry requirements will be asked to provide a portfolio and may receive an offer on that basis, so they should still call.
Once the verbal offer is made, we’ll follow up within a few hours with the official written offer via email, which they will need to accept as soon as they can.
Of course, we have many opportunities for you to visit our creative campuses.
At our Open Days students can tour our campuses, attend talks, speak with our academics, meet our technicians, and quiz our students on life at UCA.
We run campus tours , too.
Led by a UCA student ambassador, a current student who has unique insight into life at UCA, our tours are one hour long and allow you to ask all your burning questions to a current student who will be happy to answer them all!
Sign up to attend a campus tour .
With new accommodation options across our campuses there may still be space for your students’ first year.
Rooms are allocated dependant on availability at the time of application, and we will advise students through the application process if there is availability in our halls.
However, there are also many options for shared student housing in the towns and cities our campuses are based in, and lots of first-year students rent privately (whether they applied through clearing or not).
Our accommodation team can help students with finding a place to live - take a look at our accommodation pages to find out more.
We do – take a look at our Clearing advice for parents and guardians page.
Yes – check out our top tips for Clearing .

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/clearing/enquire:
Did you know you can direct message to UCA students via Unibuddy.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/clearing/animation:
It's not too late to apply to study Animation at the University for the Creative Arts this September.
Accommodation places still available in Farnham.
Work in fully equipped stop-motion bays, light-box studios, rostrum stages and high-spec digital suites featuring Wacom tablets and software like Toon Boom, Maya, and Adobe Creative Suite.
You’ll also have access to dubbing, sound, motion capture and editing studios that will give you the everything you need to bring your creative visions to life.
Benefit from our connections with renowned studios like Aardman, Cinesite, Passion Pictures, Animade, Studio AKA and more.
These partnerships bring visiting lecturers, live commissions, competitions and work placements into your degree.
Join a community of animation graduates that includes Academy Award and BAFTA winners, and creators of iconic characters such as Hey Duggee, Peppa Pig, and the Compare the Market meerkats.
Our animation degrees offer the option of an integrated foundation year, providing an alternative pathway to university study for students who may not meet the standard entry requirements.
With our close-knit community of creatives by your side, at UCA you’ll be sure to find your voice, your people, and all the inspiration you need.
Being a UCA student means you can make use of workshops and studios across all of our campuses, even ones not directly related to your course.
This allows you to expand your skillset and explore your creativity.
Facilities & Resources
Many of our degrees are offered with an integrated work placement year, allowing you to gain real-world experience in the creative industries that will further develop your skills and CV.
Careers & Creative Futures
You're never alone at UCA - whether it's help settling in, assistance with your studies, counselling or even advice on your finances, our student support services, the Students’ Union, your lecturers and your classmates will always be there to support you.
Support & Wellbeing

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/clearing/architecture:
It's not too late to apply to study Architecture at the University for the Creative Arts this September.
Accommodation places still available in Canterbury.
Our architecture degree has its origins in an art school.
This means it’s a very hands-on course, with lots of practical learning and opportunities to directly apply your newly acquired skills.
One of our key focuses is on how design decisions impact on individuals, sustainability and climate.
So you will always have an activists’ approach, looking for ways to design for good.
The 2025 Times/Sunday Times University Guide ranked UCA 2nd for student experience and 3rd for teaching quality for Architecture in the UK.
Our Architecture degrees offer the option of an integrated foundation year, providing an alternative pathway to university study for students who may not meet the standard entry requirements.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/clearing/business:
It's not too late to apply to study Business at the University for the Creative Arts this September.
Accommodation places still available in Epsom.
Our business degrees include practical and creative modules, such as branding and design, social media marketing, and self-promotion, to ensure you’re ready for a career within an established business or to support your journey as an entrepreneur.
Choose to study a degree focused on specific areas of the creative and cultural industries, such as Fashion, Events, or Music.
Alternatively, opt for a broader Business Management degree that allows you to specialise in the topics that interest you most.
Some of our business degrees are accredited by organisations such as the Chartered Management Institute.
All our courses have strong industry links, giving you valuable opportunities to connect with professionals and gain real-world experience throughout your studies.
Our Business degrees offer the option of an integrated foundation year, providing an alternative pathway to university study for students who may not meet the standard entry requirements.
Minori talks about studying Music Business & Management

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ba-comic-concept-art:
Proud to be ranked 25th in the world in The Rookies’ 2024 Top 50 Creative Schools
Become a skilled concept artist through exciting design projects
Create your designs using our suite of 24-inch Wacom Cintiq tablets
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our BA (Hons) Comic & Concept Art degree:
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Comic & Concept Art students may be interested in.
The Rookies is a leading platform for digital artists to promote their work and assists members in preparing for industry.
We are proud to be ranked 25th in the 2024 Top 50 Creative Schools in the World.
Launch The Launch week may be comprised of a range of activities, which will comprise of an interdisciplinary Industry Guest Speakers’ Series offered to all students across the School of Games and Creative Technologies.
Visual Design Fundamentals You’ll be given the fundamentals of art production using a range of traditional and digital techniques.
These skills are developed and applied to achieve, creative, and engaging outcomes.
Complimentary to this, you’ll also learn vital life drawing and mark making skills necessary for observing and interpreting gestures and anatomy.
Equality, Diversity and Inclusion This unit aims to develop an awareness and understanding of equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI), and promote progressive values and attitudes in creative practice.
Design Sprint 1 In this unit, you’ll be asked to use the skills and knowledge you’ve gained to create an Art Bible (Art and Design Document) for an entertainment design project.
You’ll work in teams and develop new skills in engaging and communicating effectively with your fellow students, including your ability to distribute tasks effectively and resolve conflicts.
Opportunity A range of activities will be available to students during this week, to broaden their engagement and subject knowledge, such as Games Jams and Design Sprints.
Narrative Development for Concept and Sequential Art Via static imagery and sequential art, you’ll learn about narrative and storytelling methods.
You’ll be required to keep a sketchbook to develop and document your ideas, and you’ll need to record your creative process and development, including ongoing reflection and critical evaluation.
Client Brief In this unit, you’ll be asked to use design skills and knowledge combined with critical contextual studies disciplines to produce work aligned to a client facing brief - working individually or in teams (depending on the brief).
Design Sprint 2 In this unit, you’ll be asked to use the fundamental art skills and the knowledge of narrative you have acquired to create a short story sequence pitch in the form of storyboards or animatics.
You’ll work in teams to further develop your skills in engaging and communicating effectively with your fellow students, including your ability to distribute art tasks effectively and resolve conflicts.
PLE Digital Outcomes The PLE Digital Outcome is a purposefully edited, self-directed record of your constructive, engagement with and presence on, digital media platforms across the year.
Advanced Workflow and Techniques You’ll build on the art and design skills and critical and contextual knowledge you gained in year 1, once again using a range of traditional and digital techniques to produce a more advanced body of work.
Character and World Building The critical and contextual elements of this unit will continue to produce connections between your practical work and relevant scholarly debates, theories, and concepts with a focus on characters and world-building.
In addition, the unit will continue to provide a platform for the development of skills relating to academic research, analysis, and critical thinking necessary for your development into a successful artist.
Throughout this unit you will be expected to demonstrate creative problem solving, self-direction and effective time-management.
Industry Brief You’ll use design skills and workflows to produce work for an industry brief, to be interpreted and aligned to your discipline pathway.
The client will set specific parameters and conditions to be fulfilled within the allotted project time.
This could include style guides, historic markers, format conditions, audience and genre.
You will work as individuals or in a team (depending on the brief).
Elective units You’ll also be able to choose from two of the following elective units through the course of the year:
Final Major Project – Pre-Production This extended period of study, starting with the Pre-Production unit running alongside the Critical and Conceptual Influences unit, allows you to develop a significant body of work that demonstrates your chosen pathway discipline, ideation skills, genre interests and your aspiration for your future role within the Games and entertainment industries.
Work from this period of study will make up and define your graduate portfolio.
Final Major Project: Critical & Conceptual Influences The Critical and Conceptual Influences unit enables you to engage with a range of research skills, to develop an appropriate methodological approach appropriate to your chosen subject area that forms your Final Major Project.
Professional Practice You’ll identify, explore and develop professional promotional resources which highlight your strengths and your body of work.
These resources should successfully promote the individual, their skills and workflows to industry.
Final Major Project: Production The culmination of your studies, the Final Major Project allows you to develop a significant body of work, that will represent your graduating portfolio to industry, either individually, or in a group, or in an interdisciplinary group collaboration (from disciplines outside of Games), that demonstrates your skills, interests, and your aspiration for your future role within the games or aligned creative industries.
Work from this stage will make up your graduate portfolio.
Macs have the full Adobe Creative Suite as well as Toon Boom and Maya CG software.
You can also access sound and editing suites, a stop-motion studio with Dragonframe capture software, Canon DSLRs and professional camera stands, and stages pre-rigged with grips, stands and lights.
Room: JL23
Room: JL17
Room: JL11A
Room: JL11B
Room: JL11C
Whether our graduates become self-emplpyed artists and establish a freelance career, there are a wide range of specific roles within the industry to explore.
Programme Director Comic & Concept Art
Lecturer in Computer Games Arts
Senior Lecturer in Critical Studies: Digital and Interactive Art
Industry Engagement Lead
Senior Lecturer: Games, Comic and Concept Art
View Comic & Concept Art portfolio advice

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/clearing/crafts:
It's not too late to apply to study ceramics, glass or jewellery at the University for the Creative Arts this September.
Immerse yourself in fully equipped spaces, including throwing rooms, hot shops, kilns and a range of crafting workshops are designed to help you push the boundaries in ceramics, glass or jewellery.
View all facilities and resources
Our Farnham campus holds the prestigious status of being the only World Craft Town in England, offering you an inspiring environment that celebrates creativity and craft heritage.
Our crafts degrees include live industry projects and workshops, as well as the opportunity to undertake a year-long industry work placement.
Plus, our annual Graduate Showcase gives you a platform to launch your career and connect with employers and fellow makers.
Our ceramics, glass and jewellery degrees offer the option of an integrated foundation year, providing an alternative pathway to university study for students who may not meet the standard entry requirements.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ba-digital-art:
Working alongside games and creative technology students
Famous alumni include His Dark Materials director Will McGregor
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our BA (Hons) Digital Art degree:
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Digital Art students may be interested in.
Digital Art with Jeremiah Ambrose
BA Digital Art Showreel
Launch This primary week at the beginning of the course will be used to prepare you for university learning.
Many of the workshops on offer will be programme-wide and will be enhanced with subject specific learning.
You will be introduced to a range of skills workshops designed to audit and refresh your existing skills in order to prepare you for the commencement of the course learning.
The Real This is a programme-wide unit, run in course-specific groups, giving you the opportunity to investigate core subject-specific themes and ideas interpreted through the lens of ‘the real’.
You’ll explore situations or communicate ideas about the social, political, and economic circumstances that shape human experience.
Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity You’ll be able to demonstrate an awareness of how your own social identity (such as gender, race/ethnicity, class, disability, sexual orientation, and religion) informs how you navigate creative practices.
Professional Experience You’ll be equipped with the skills and knowledge necessary to be competent and confident working creatively with mixed media practices.
You’ll gain a good understanding of the integral relationship between mixed media technical skills and creative practice.
Underlying this is an emphasis on subverting dominant technical norms, to stand out in a professional context.
Opportunity During this opportunity week you will receive one personal tutorial that feeds back on the work of the previous term.
There will also be a number of refresher workshops designed to recap any skills.
The Body You’ll be introduced to a range of genres, styles, and critical and methodological approaches which are related to or centred on the body and our relationship to the body.
This is a good opportunity to improve your research skills and gain a deeper understanding of your own creative practice.
Client Brief You’ll use design skills and knowledge combined with critical contextual studies disciplines to produce work aligned to a client facing brief.
Working alone or in a team, you’ll employ collaborative skills and build on your presentation and pitching skills, too.
Speculative Art This unit is the introduction to the field of ‘Speculative’ or ‘Fantastic Art’ –– which includes, but is not limited to, artists engaging with Science Fiction, Fantasy, Horror, Afrofuturism, African Futurism, Sinofuturism, Gulf Futurism, Arabfuturism, Indigenous Futurism, Utopianism, Cyberpunk, Salvagepunk, Weird Fiction, Alternate Histories, Magical Realism, Africanjujuism and Techno-Horror.
Launch You’ll prepare for the year ahead with a range of refresher skills workshops designed to recap on previous learning, together with preparation work for the forthcoming core unit Spatial Practices.
Spatial Practices You’ll explore spatial practices and their relationship to ideologies and systems of power and look at the ways in which moving image and digital cultures document, intersect, and subvert traditional approaches to space and place.
The Conscious Practitioner You’ll engage with subject specific concepts of inclusion, exclusion, and diversity, and interrogate how belief systems, values, and attitudes influence approaches to creative practices.
Opportunity Week During this opportunity week, you will receive one personal tutorial that feeds back on the work of the previous term and take part in workshops designed to recap on any skills that was omitted during term 1.
You’ll also prepare for the forthcoming core unit Expanded Practices.
Expanded Practices You’ll explore digital art as an expanded field of creative practice, and how it can open out across multiple mediums and engage with the world.
We want you to examine imaginative possibilities that sit between meaning and materiality using a range of approaches and processes.
Industry Brief Individually or in teams, you’ll use design skills and workflows to produce work for an industry brief, to be interpreted and aligned to your discipline pathway.
ATOM Activities and PLE Digital Outcome These units are a continuation of what you learned in your first-year ATOM and PLE Digital Outcome units.
Launch Your final Launch Week is a space in which you can reflect on your own independent learning journey.
You will be encouraged to rework an existing piece of work to produce a new outcome and be guided through how to draft a viable proposal for the next unit.
Final Major Project – Development You’ll begin developing work for your final major project, identifying and experimenting with a range of relevant creative and technical methodological approaches in a way that reflects your own research interests.
Critical Contexts Drawing from interdisciplinary approaches to gathering research, you’ll be able to synthesise and contextualise your research interests within relevant critical contexts through either the written or spoken word.
Opportunity During this opportunity week you will receive a personal tutorial that feeds back on the work of the previous term, and work independently to refine your final major project.
Final Major Project: Realisation In this two-component unit you’ll complete your final major project with a major body of work that reflects your individual practice, and also complete your independent professional exit plan, as part of your transition to either a professional or postgraduate environment.
At UCA Farnham there are purpose-built film studios with dedicated technical support from industry specialists; Sound editing and mixing suites which include software such as Avid Media Composer, Symphony Nitris and Pro Tools; an on-campus media store with good supply of 16mm, super 16mm, digital HD video cameras and high-end sound recording equipment to hire and digital media suites with Macs and PCs with latest programmes for film editing as well as general design work.
Room: RF07
This studio contains a 24 channel analogue mixing desk and professional audio monitoring solutions.
Room: RF03
Room: W111
Room: W110
Room: B32
Room: W105D
Room: RG21
This large Lecture theatre with retractable seats has full AV and seats 250 people.
Room: JL22
As a student on this course, you'll benefit from our strong industry links, which cover a broad range of sectors.
We regularly host visiting lecturers who share their experiences and expertise, giving you a great opportunity to make contacts and gain invaluable insights into areas that interest you, as well as contextualise your studies.
Recent guest lecturers have included:
We also have close connections with post-production facilities, games companies, production companies and art venues.
We've produced a host of distinguished alumni, including national award winners.
A number of recent graduates have gone on to work on Hollywood movies, BBC television programmes, and on projects with companies such as:
Roles include film and video directors, lighting camera ops, sound ops, producers and production managers, digital film editors, digital visual effects artists, CGI animators, sound designers, games designers, phone app creators, flash animators, experimental film and video artists, installation artists and digital photographers.
Graduates have also started their own companies, with recent successes including Kode Media, Bright Stem and This Place.
"The best part of the course is that it isn't limited and teaches skills ranging from practical workshops with cameras to editing and visual effects.
It’s perfect for anyone who doesn’t want to limit themselves to just one aspect of the industry"
Ance Priedniece
View Digital Art portfolio advice
Senior Lecturer in Games
Senior Lecturer in Digital Art
Lecturer in Digital Art

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/clearing/fashion:
It's not too late to apply to study Fashion at the University for the Creative Arts this September.
You’ll study practical modules throughout your degree that are designed to get you ready for a successful fashion career.
You'll learn how to pitch ideas, develop start-ups, navigate e-commerce, and can even undertake a full-year industry work placement as part of your course.
Become a sustainable fashion specialist through modules that explore inclusivity, ethics and the environmental impact of the industry.
You’ll examine fashion’s role in climate change and explore innovative ways to drive positive change.
Our fashion degrees are delivered at our Epsom campus, just outside London; one of the world’s leading fashion hubs.
This gives you the opportunity to connect with key industry figures and showcase your work at major events like London Fashion Week.
Our fashion and textiles degrees offer the option of an integrated foundation year, providing an alternative pathway to university study for students who may not meet the standard entry requirements.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/clearing/film:
It's not too late to apply to study Film & TV at the University for the Creative Arts this September.
We collaborate with leading industry partners to give you hands-on, real-world experience.
Our TV Production degree, for example, is taught at Maidstone TV Studios.
We also have strong links with BAFTA, the BFI and other key organisations.
You'll can also undertake a year-long industry work placement as part of your degree.
Our campuses feature industry-standard film studios, editing suites and recording studios.
You'll also have access to a cutting-edge virtual production studio, enabling you to create immersive worlds and atmospheres.
Learn from a team of industry experts, including international award-winning filmmakers, picture editors, sound post-production specialists, development producers, cinematographers, screenwriters, and both fiction and factual directors and editors.
Our film degrees offer the option of an integrated foundation year, providing an alternative pathway to university study for students who may not meet the standard entry requirements.
Eloka talks about studying Film Production
Justine talks about studying Film Production
Alumni Spotlight with Screenwriter Troy Hunter

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/clearing/fine-art:
It's not too late to apply to study Fine Art at the University for the Creative Arts this September.
Accommodation places still available across all campuses.
Our fine art degrees at Canterbury and Farnham encourage you to discover what truly inspires your practice as you experiment across disciplines including painting, sculpture, printmaking, photography, film, sound, performance and digital art.
You'll be working in studios that are purpose-built for your creative needs.
From print and painting studios to craft workshops and VR-enabled digital labs, these spaces are designed to foster experimentation, collaboration and technical excellence.
Live projects, community collaborations, guest lectures and our graduate showcase , as well as our links with public galleries, museums, arts organisations will allow you to build a network of industry connections throughout your degree.
You'll also have the opportunity to undertake a year-long work placement as part of your fine art degree.
Our fine art degrees offer the option of an integrated foundation year, providing an alternative pathway to university study for students who may not meet the standard entry requirements.
Why I chose Fine Art

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/clearing/games-and-computing:
It's not too late to apply to study Game Design or Computer Science at the University for the Creative Arts this September.
UCA is ranked 3rd in the UK and among the top 25 creative schools globally by leading industry platform The Rookies.
We're also perfectly located in Surrey, home to major studios like Electronic Arts, Epic Games, Supermassive Games and Two Point Studios.
In addition to the option of a year-long industry placement, we offer the UCA Games Incubator.
This is a dedicated space for graduate entrepreneurs to launch their own studios and take their games to market.
Our high-spec studios feature powerful PC build, as well as access to specialist facilities, including motion capture, dubbing, and sound recording studios, give you everything you need to build games your way.
You can also collaborate with students from film, music, and design cpirses to create unique, cross-disciplinary projects.
Our degrees offer the option of an integrated foundation year, providing an alternative pathway to university study for students who may not meet the standard entry requirements.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ba-illustration:
We are experimental and playfully commercial
Alumni include Paul Blow, Petronella Hall and TV legend Tony Hart
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our BA (Hons) Illustration degree:
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Illustration students may be interested in.
Illustration portfolio advice
Launch You’ll be introduced to the course, the staff team, and to campus spaces and resources.
A lively and varied programme of workshops, activities and exercises will bond them as a group and introduce them to the wider contexts of image-making and illustration.
The focus will be on playful, high tempo activities that sow enthusiasm for the coming year.
Fundamentals 1 As you start out on your journey of exploration, you’ll be introduced to the building blocks of illustration.
You’ll examine its fundamental objective - to convey information through visual imagery in order to inform, describe, express, embellish, interpret and represent ideas - and look at the broad strategic remit of the discipline: to bring image-based solutions to agreed communication agendas.
Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity 1 As visual practitioners we have a responsibility for the socio-political make-up of our lives and the lives of others, so you’ll need to think critically about how our worlds are created, and to work together within relationships, communities and collectives.
You’ll begin to develop an understanding of perspectives and practices that are unfamiliar; a language to begin to articulate visual culture in relation to socio-political issues; an ability to situate your practices within a global context.
Impact 1 How are images delivered and who sees them?
How can we create and deepen engagement using imagery and how can we measure its success?
This unit asks you to consider the reach and impact of illustration in its current and speculative forms.
You’ll learn about users and audiences to begin to develop an understanding of how illustration and other forms of imagery are transmitted and understood.
Opportunity This opportunity week will recap on learning achieved in the year to date, reviewing student progress in term 1, and introduce the themes, topics and agendas for the term ahead.
This will be achieved via a series of design sprints and live challenges – such as creating and publishing content for a group-curated magazine, setting up a work in progress show or curating a public event.
Fundamentals 2 This unit builds on the skills and approaches undertaken in Fundamentals 1 by exploring the full global reach of illustration, in both its current and potential future form.
You’ll consolidate the practical building blocks of image-making and expand on these by looking at experimental practices, reviewing image-based practice, collaborating to produce shared large-scale image projects, and begin to attempt external-facing projects.
Real World 1 As part of preparing for practice in future, this unit introduces you to the position of illustration in contemporary media and wider creative practice.
You’ll be introduced to notions of where you fit into the design world, and what external possibilities might look like.
Showtime This unit asks you to consider the possibilities of external display, as they relate to your own image-making practice and ambitions.
You will do this by selecting and participating fully in a series of School-wide events across the year, recording and reflecting on them regularly in a cumulative digital outcome, and final Unit Report and a publicly accessible showcase.
Launch This week will be used to introduce you to the scope and possibility of your Year 2 experience, examining the existing and future horizons of the subject.
Specialist options within chosen areas of illustration - such as narrative and storytelling, moving image, data visualisation, 3D/spatial, and reportage – will be finalised, and summer projects reprised to frame the progress of their journey across this crucial year and into your final year.
Studio 1 This module embeds and extends your core illustration studio skills, including drawing, printmaking, composition, photography, and key software, and you’ll consolidate the studio culture you’ve been introduced to.
It also offers optionality by presenting a choice of specialist design briefs from a spectrum of image-making sub-disciplines.
The conscious practitioner You’ll interrogate visual culture and communication practices beyond Eurocentric models, to challenge our assumptions and preconceptions.
You’ll develop an ability to critically analyse and engage critically with perspectives and practices that are unfamiliar; to position your practice within those contexts and to use research and speculation to articulate your work in relation to socio-political issues and contexts.
Impact 2 You’ll consider new and responsive ways in which images can and might be used, both now and in future, to deepen engagement, reach users in new and interactive ways, and in so doing broaden the remit of the discipline.
This unit builds on the first year Impact 1 unit and asks you to consider the reach and impact of illustration in its current and speculative forms.
Opportunity This opportunity week will recap on learning achieved in the year to date, and introduce the themes, topics and agendas for both the remainder of the year and progression into Y3.
This will be achieved via a series of live challenges and topic reviews, working with other student groups and years as appropriate
Studio 2 This unit builds on the studio skills explored in the Studio 1 unit to prepare your personal line of visual enquiry for final year study via self-written project work.
Real World 2 As part of preparing for practice in future, this unit builds on the positional stance you explored in your first year, as you began to look how illustration is situated within contemporary media and wider creative practice.
You’ll be introduced to notions of where you fit into the design world, and what external possibilities might look like, as you prepare to source a work placement.
You’ll build and test a portfolio / online showcase, and provide written rationales and visual mapping that explore the specialist areas pertinent to your visual interests.
Placement You’ll consider and engage with the possibilities of external work and engagement, as they relate to your own image-making practice and ambitions and building on the Showtime unit undertaken in first year.
This is all about developing your employability and enterprise skills and equips you with competencies needed for your future career within the world of illustration.
Launch This week will be used to introduce students to the scope and possibility of their final year experience, as they refine your own visual voice and build a professional profile as an effective and committed image-maker.
Visual Voice The final year is a key time to build your own design voice, so that by the end, you can present a coherent body of design work of professional standard that engages and communicates effectively with a given audience.
You’ll do a written design project, a collaborative brief, and a competition brief from a recognised national or international competition or awards scheme, such as the RSA, Penguin Design Awards, Folio Society, Macmillan Prize.
Critical Practice You’ll interrogate a particular theme or topic, research it, gather material and analyse how it informs your ideas and practice.
Opportunity You’ll recap on learning achieved in the year to date, and introduce the themes, topics and agendas for both the remainder of the year and progression into the workplace.
Final Project This final provides the opportunity to examine a subject or theme in depth through a self-determined and challenging project, which will demonstrate the maturity of your visual communication skills.
Work created in this unit will be exhibited in the end-of-year Degree Show and typically goes on to form a major component of student portfolios upon graduation.
There are dedicated illustration studios with natural lighting for workshops, independent and group working.
On campus, there are digital media suites programmed with design software for high-quality print production; printmaking studio with relief and block printing, plate or stone lithography, intaglio, letterpress, photopolymer plate printing and screen-printing; and a modern library with a wealth of books, journals, special collections and online resources.
Room: B123/124/125
You’ll benefit from our well established industry links, including:
The course attracts a variety of guest speakers, such as Rosy Nicolas, Tim Ellis, Tom Dowse, Graham Rawle, Gina Cross, The Association of Illustrators, Stephen Appleby, Olivier Kugler, Matilda Tristram and David Lemm.
The degree is a member of the Association of Illustrators , which gives you access to notable industry practitioners, workshops, lectures and seminars by some of the top illustrators in the UK and Europe.
The diverse and versatile skill set you’ll develop on this course will open up a multitude of career paths.
Our recent graduates are currently working in:
We have been encouraged to experiment and we've had the resources to try new things.
We have also been lucky to meet people working in the industry."
Beth Peters
View Illustration portfolio advice
Programme Director Illustration
Senior Lecturer in Illustration
Lecturer in Illustration
Senior Lecturer and Year 2 Lead Illustration
Senior Lecturer Illustration
Senior Lecturer MA Illustration
Lecturer Visual Theory

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/clearing/interior-design:
It's not too late to apply to study Interior Design at the University for the Creative Arts this September.
Our Interior Design degrees include live projects, which in the past has included leading London architecture firms as well as companies across the globe.
You'll also have the opportunity to complete a year-long industry work placement, gaining valuable professional experience before you graduate.
Interior Design at UCA is ranked in the top 10 in the UK for teaching quality by The Guardian and The Times/Sunday Times.
You’ll be taught by experienced academic and technical staff with expertise in commercial, retail and cultural design.
Explore how interior spaces shape our everyday lives, and how thoughtful, responsive and imaginative design can improve them.
You’ll learn to create environments that are not only functional, but socially and emotionally engaging.
Our Interior Design degrees offer the option of an integrated foundation year, providing an alternative pathway to university study for students who may not meet the standard entry requirements.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/clearing/marketing:
It's not too late to apply to study Marketing & Communications at the University for the Creative Arts this September.
Choose an industry-focused marketing degree, such as Music Marketing or Fashion Marketing , or customise your path with our Digital Marketing degree and specialise in an area of the creative industries that inspires you most.
Our marketing degrees are taught at our Epsom campus, just outside London, one of the world’s top cities for marketing professionals.
Our location puts you in the perfect place to gain hands-on experience, especially as our marketing courses include the opportunity to take on a year-long industry work placement.
With degrees in fashion, photography, film, games, graphic design, and more, at UCA you'll have have multiple opportunities to collaborate across disciplines.
Work with fellow creatives to develop meaningful, portfolio-ready projects with real-world impact.
Our Marketing & Communications degrees offer the option of an integrated foundation year, providing an alternative pathway to university study for students who may not meet the standard entry requirements.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/clearing/music:
It's not too late to apply to study Music at the University for the Creative Arts this September.
Our Music Business & Management degree will help you to succeed in fields like talent scouting, artist management, live events, and music marketing.
Modules cover emerging tech and analytics, brand partnerships and data-driven marketing, culminating in a final creative or business project that prepares you to enter the global music industry.
Our Music & Sound Production degree will allow you to explore and master both analogue and digital approaches.
During your studies you'll get the opportunity to mix live performances and design Foley sound and create original tracks using industry-standard equipment.
Build your industry network and gain real-world insight through guest lectures and live project briefs.
You’ll develop a clear understanding of how the music industry operates, and where you fit within it.
You’ll also have the opportunity to take a year-long work placement as part of your degree, giving you valuable hands-on experience.
Our music degrees offer the option of an integrated foundation year, providing an alternative pathway to university study for students who may not meet the standard entry requirements.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/clearing/performing-arts:
It's not too late to apply to study Acting, Music or Theatre Design at the University for the Creative Arts this September.
Whether you're studying acting, theatre design or music production, you’ll train in professional-standard studios and have access to a wide-range of workshops with industry-standard equipment.
You’ll also have the chance to showcase your work at public venues such as Farnham Maltings, and even in London’s West End, gaining real-world experience in front of live audiences.
From local connections, such as Farnham Maltings and UCA degrees taught at Maidstone TV Studios, to our exciting collaborations with partners including the National Theatre, our degrees in acting, theatre design and sound production give you direct access to the industry.
Through behind-the-scenes tours and masterclasses, you'll learn from the professionals shaping the stage and screen today.
Whether you're pursuing theatre, music or performance design, your degree will allow you to collaborate with other students across film, animation and fashion on projects that pull on specialisms from across the creative industries.
You'll take on industry briefs and  can event explore your specialism through an optional year-long work  placement, meaning you'll graduate with practical skills and professional confidence.
Our performing arts degrees offer the option of an integrated foundation year, providing an alternative pathway to university study for students who may not meet the standard entry requirements.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/clearing/photography:
It's not too late to apply to study Photography at the University for the Creative Arts this September.
Throughout your degree you'll have opportunities to work on live industry assignments, partnering with magazines, fashion brands, galleries, and publishers.
For instance, our second-year students recently worked on a project with the National Portrait Gallery.
You can also choose to undertake a year-long industry working placement, helping you build a professional network and transition smoothly into careers in editorial, commercial, documentary or fine‑art photography.
At UCA you can choose your own pathway.
You can apply your skills on our Fashion Photography degree where you'll work closely with stylists and designers on creative shoots and campaigns.
Or, you can explore broader conceptual photography and storytelling on our BA Photography course , including fine‑art, documentary, portraiture and experimental work.
All our campuses have professional photography studios with lighting and shaping equipment.
We have everything you need to bring your creative ideas to life, including colour and black and white darkrooms, digital editing suites and top-tier cameras and lighting kits.
Our photography degrees offer the option of an integrated foundation year, providing an alternative pathway to university study for students who may not meet the standard entry requirements.
Why Photography was right for me
Getting featured by Vogue Italia
Alumni Stories: Avi Rehill

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ba-product-design:
Discover the relationship between products, furniture and the spaces they occupy
Work on industry projects to gain experience
Expect to be making things all the time!
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our BA (Hons) Product Design degree:
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Product Design students may be interested in.
In your first year, you’ll be developing key prototyping and visualisation skills.
Starting with simple materials, you’ll progress to advanced workshop and digital techniques.
You’ll also learn to clearly communicate your ideas through hands-on making and accurate sketching.
Launch Launch Week is the first week of your academic journey in the Canterbury School of Architecture and Design where you get to know your course staff, peer group and the School community in greater depth.
Design 01 – Sketch and Build You will be introduced to a range of core skills in concept development and representation, through sketching, model making, diagramming, and time-based media.
You’ll do this through a series of design projects.
We want you to experiment and develop skills that are personal to you alongside skills that embrace the integrated nature of design production.
Design for Equity 01 In this unit, you will be introduced to the technological principles, civil regulations, and societal challenges that inform contemporary design and manufacture.
There are two key areas of consideration – social justice and equitable design, and the climate crisis.
We want you to think critically about how the detailed design of spaces and objects (including the measures, standards and tools of our industry) impacts upon gender, race, sexual and bodily equality.
Briefs and Positions 01 You’ll prepare a basic set of briefing materials that will inform and guide your development of a small-scale design proposal in the subsequent design unit Design 02 – Iterate and Adapt.
Opportunity As you start Term 2, Opportunity Week is an intensive week of activity conceived and undertaken in collaboration with an external partners, with the aim of broadening knowledge and skills.
Iterate and Adapt 01 Explore the fundamental processes of design practice through spatial or product analysis, deconstruction, documentation and augmentation.
In this unit you’ll enhance your skills in sketching and drawing, assembly/disassembly, accurate survey and measurement in 3D space, material analysis and documentation of both the physical space or product and their intended programme or market.
Critical Analysis 01 We want you to understand that the role of the designer is not always in isolation.
Material and Digital Practices This unit introduces you to basic ideas around representation as a critical practice, and core theories of the design and production of small-scale objects in 2D print and 3D physical form.
In your second year, you’ll continue to develop your fabrication and material skills, you'll also be learning how to create innovative responses to global design challenges.
This will include exploring sustainability to emerging technologies.
Design 03 – Fabricate and Form In this unit you’ll further refine your skills in sketching, model making and visualisation, with specific focus on digital representation methodologies, and material and manufacturing constrains and opportunities.
We’ll also ask you to develop research practices, examining the relationship between place/product and user, brand value, user or spatial experience, and form – and respond to this research through your design proposals.
Design for Equity 02 In this unit, you will expand your knowledge of the technological principles, civil regulations, and societal challenges that inform contemporary design and manufacture.
You’ll focus on how non-western perspectives, culturally diverse contexts and vernacular practices can inform low-carbon approaches to spatial and product design
Briefs and Positions 02 In this unit, you’ll prepare a developed set of briefing materials that will inform and guide your development of a medium-scale design proposal in the subsequent design unit Design 04 – Fabricate and Form.
Context and Constraint You’ll expand your conceptual approach to constraint-based design by undertaking a detailed design project which brings together your technical, conceptual ideation, iterative testing, and narrative production skills in a confident and holistic way.
During the process, you will explore ideas of transformation, surprise, and unknown futures through a range of possible design challenges.
You may enrol to undertake an additional ‘Professional Practice Year’ as an integral part of this course.
This will take place in year three.
You will undertake a work placement with a subject appropriate employer to further develop your skills and CV.
Your final year allows you to take full ownership of your creative direction.
You’ll explore a theme that matters to you through a self-directed major project.
This will include developing it through research, prototyping and reflection.
This is your chance to produce an innovative body of work that showcases your ambition, creativity and identity as a designer.
You will go on developing your individual and group working skills and start to experience the pace of work in practice as you move toward employment.
Major Project After defining your own brief during the preceding Briefs and Positions 03 unit, with the support of your tutor, you will develop and complete an expansive project that uses all your skills in design, making, research and project development.
UCA Canterbury has open plan studio spaces offer a flexible learning environment, used for tutorials and independent working.
Fully equipped Mac and PC computer labs with software for design and coding.
Access to a purpose built FabLAB with laser cutters, 3D printers and CNC milling and injection moulding equipment, as well as virtual reality and spatial tracking technology.
Campus 3D workshop with machines for working in wood, metals, plastics and ceramics.
Room: GO.06
Room: GO.09
Room: GO.01
Room: EO.02
You’ll be fully immersed in the architecture and design industries through live projects.
In the past these have included work with the leading London architecture firm AKT II, global design and architecture firms such as HOK and SOM, local government organisations and architecture companies in Margate and Folkestone.
You’ll also have the opportunity to enter industry competitions.
Graduates of the course have gone on to work at the following leading design practices:
Graduates of this course can expect to work within the industry in a variety of different roles.
View Product Design portfolio advice

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ba-visual-communication:
Build graphic design, illustration, animation and image skills
Learn to convey messages over multiple platforms
Fluidity allows you to specialise, and change those specialisms
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our BA (Hons) Visual Communication degree:
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Visual Communication students may be interested in.
Study Visual Communication at UCA
Visual Communication portfolio advice
Launch This is your introduction to the Campus and to the Course.
As well as to the contexts and forms relevant for Visual Communication, you’ll be asked to make an impactful and meaningful collaborative project.
What is Visual Communication?
This introductory unit encourages you to develop a visually experimental and explorative approach.
We cover research methodology, practical and critical communication skills and introductions to image-making tools and appropriate software programmes.
Equality, Diversity and Inclusion 1 The unit provides an opportunity for students to explore what is meant by equality, diversity, and inclusion and the implications of these concepts for creative practice.
You’ll learn how our social identities (such as, gender, race/ethnicity, class, disability, sexual orientation, and religion) contribute to the inclusion and/or exclusion of individuals in creative spaces.
Defining your practice Through your first phase of studies, you’ll investigate and explore the potential of a range of specific themes and approaches to contemporary Visual Communication practices and craft skills.
Opportunity This is your opportunity to explore, through field visits, external settings for visual communication in national and international locations, including visits to galleries, museums and other cultural institutions, festivals, screenings, conferences and more.
Practice-based fundamentals You’ll learn how different meanings can be constructed through a variety of image-making constellations specific to your sphere of practice in this unit, as well as how these methods are applied to different mediums and formats.
Preparing for professional practice: part 1 In this unit, you’ll focus on professional Visual Communication working environments and consider the role that you, as a practicing designer and communicator, may play within such spaces.
Individual reflection and progression We’ll give you the opportunity to reflect on your first year of work, create a portfolio, and from this confirm your sphere of practice going forward.
Launch You’ll be a part of an impactful and meaningful collaborative project that explores globally significant issues - this is your introduction to an externally set brief.
Visual storytelling We’ll challenge you to develop your own personal voice to communicate ideas and make meaningful content for specific audiences.
The ideas you develop through this unit will encourage the concise communication of complex ideas using traditional and emerging media.
The conscious practitioner This unit aims to promote progressive values and attitudes to diversity and inclusion in creative practice, exploring global perspectives and influences and drawing upon interactions with various identities, cultures, politics, and histories.
You’ll explore how beliefs, values and attitudes drive behaviour and practices.
Interdisciplinary electives Collaborate, experiment and realise creative responses to briefs within an area of inter-disciplinary activity of your choice, across campus and through other courses.
This gives you the opportunity to meaningfully engage with diverse activities and forms of teaching that enhance your chosen sphere of focus.
Spatial practices You will learn how to manipulate spaces to create identities, multi-sensory experiences, and innovative events/exhibitions in a sustainable and environmentally conscious context.
You will also be encouraged to explore notions of virtual space.
Preparing for professional practice, part 2 Through a broad range of presentations, seminars and lectures you will be supported to develop research, analysis and a deep understanding of your own practice in the context of current industry needs.
This will also aid you in seeking your placement opportunity.
Placement For this unit you have two choices – to undertake a four-week, self-initiated work placement that is relevant to your potential career direction and contributes to the fulfilment of the course aims and objectives, or to complete an Industry Case Study that focuses on an area of the industry that you have an interest in, through primary and secondary research.
Launch This is your opportunity to share ideas that you will have developed over the summer about your critical research project, receive feedback from tutors and peers and finetune it before you start actively working on it as part of your last year at university.
Critical Research and Practice This unit involves the research, development, and construction of a self-directed research project that informs, guides, motivates and drives subsequent professional and creative work in year 3.
This project requires you to consolidate and articulate your knowledge, understanding, skills, and experience, alongside the interests that you have developed over the duration of the course.
Professional Practices This unit helps you to explore contemporary and future definitions of creative practice leading to a professional career in the varied fields of Visual Communication (or related creative disciplines).
Opportunity This is your opportunity to explore, through field visits, external settings for visual communication in national and international locations.
As well as to the contexts and forms relevant for Visual Communication.
Self-Directed Final Major Project This unit provides you with a framework within which to research, develop and realise a major self-initiated project of your own choosing.
It enables you to develop a written project proposal that effectively and succinctly communicates the key elements of your conceptual, technical, aesthetic and theoretical concerns and intentions.
It allows you to develop work that demonstrates a high level of maturity through its clarity and focus.
Across the entire duration of this course, you’ll be maintain and evolve a Progression Portfolio.
Through this you’ll learn how to curate and build a document of all of your research and developmental/experimental work across each unit of the course.
This portfolio will allow you to reflect, review, update and present your unit outcomes in one place to demonstrate your knowledge/understanding, technical and professional skills as a Visual Communication practitioner.
Visual Communication facilities include dedicated studios with space for both personal and group working; digital media suites with Macs running industry design software including Adobe Creative Suite, Final Cut Studio, Final Cut Pro, Soundtrack Pro and Autodesk Maya.
On campus we have photography studios and processing and printing darkrooms for black and white film-based photography and printmaking studios with access to lithography, screen-printing, etching and relief printing.
Room: DO.11
This room contains several large printing presses, lino cutting, aqua tint and etching.
Room: D1.02
This workshop contains four screen beds and a wash out area.
Room: D1.03
This room contains a UV exposure unit and a drying cabinet.
Room: CO.17
Room: DO.04
This room contains two processors.
Room: DO.05
This room contains five B&W enlargers.
Graduates of this course can expect to leave their studies and continue their careers in various roles within the industry.
View Visual Communication portfolio advice
Programme Director Visual Communication
Senior Lecturer in Visual Communication
Lecturer in Visual Communication
Senior Lecturer in Visual Communication, and Contextual & Theoretical Studies Lead
Lecturer in Visual Communication (Contextual Studies)

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2024/animation-grads-nominated-british-animation-awards:
Two talented animation graduates from the University for the Creative Arts (UCA) are nominated for the British Animation Awards 2024.
26 February 2024
Ross Stringer and Leto Meade, who graduated from UCA Farnham in 2020 and 2019 respectively, were nominated in the Best Postgraduate Film category alongside just two other nominees.
Off the back of a BAFTA win, this is further recognition for Ross’ Crab Day animation, commended for its stripped-back aesthetics and story with heart.
It is the story of a young boy who must kill his crab as part of a community ritual to get his father’s approval.
It was inspired by Ross' hometown of Great Yarmouth, with it's fishing heritage.
“It’s about becoming a man on your own terms,” Ross explained.
“With themes of masculinity, community, and accepting difference.”
The other animation to make the shortlist is Death of the Gods by Leto, whose inspiration for the story came from musings and experiences from childhood.
Death Of The Gods - Trailer from Leto S.
Meade on Vimeo .
“The film is about growing up and realising that your parents aren't as powerful and superhero-like as you think they are, explained Leto.
“From being these unmovable giant figures in our minds that can move mountains and do anything, to realise they are just normal people.
I wanted to create a piece that hugs the vulnerable person behind our idea of them.”
Set building on a budget brought the biggest challenges to Leto and his team, and they had to come up with some creative solutions such as melting and layering up the unscented component of soap to create a liquid effect for the final scene.
The story and characters are crucial in Leto’s animations, which he put down to his background in local theatre, in fact, the two films he made at UCA were monologues.
But Leto is happy for audiences to interpret their own telling of his experience and hopes they can relate to the feelings the film evokes.
Leto said: “My favourite screenings of the film have been to younger audiences.
I find it very inspiring that they understand the more abstract parts of it.
And in a way, I guess, I want them to know that although the transition of realising your parents aren’t perfect is hard, it’s great finally seeing each other.”
Leto gushes about his formative time at UCA, having said that it was, the only university that spoke to what he wanted to do – making films, and a lot of what he knows is traced back to tutorials with the animation academics.
However, talking about the film industry, Leto said, “it can feel tiring to break into,” so he offers some sage advice to aspiring-animators.
“There might be periods of having to take up other work, but the important thing is to stick with it, keep applying and don’t take any failure to heart, just keep going.
Next, collaborate as much as possible and take advantage of being surrounded by other creatives.
These are often the people who will get you jobs in the future.
Finally, don’t put all your hopes into working at one of the big studios.
Just trust the process and say yes to things!”
The winners of the BAA 2024 will be announced at a ceremony at the BFI in London on 7 March.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/blogs/izzy-argent-body-positive-animation:
In her final project, BA (Hons) Animation graduate Izzy Argent explores and celebrates her own body image to inspire others to love theirs.
26 August 2021
Izzy had an open brief for her final project and chose to create a hand-drawn 2D animation film, called Changing Room, based on her own experiences with body image.
“I’ve made films in the past that have explored subjects I’m interested in, but never anything I’ve actually been through,” she says.
“This time, I wanted to take things a step further and make something personal, something I would want to see myself, so I chose to make a film that inspires body positivity.”
Her film shows a character who Izzy describes as having “hip dips, leg hair, saggy boobs and fat,” who goes swimming.
“She’s a normal woman, or at least what the majority of women look like, as almost everyone has body hair and is above a size 6," Izzy explains.
"I also wanted to feature a character that people of a certain size could relate to and enjoy on-screen.
The aim is to hopefully normalise these things, and to create a positive message that says you have the right to enjoy your life and the activities you pursue regardless of other people, or your own insecurities.”
"People who’ve watched the film tell me they've tried on their swimsuits, twisted and turned in the mirror, and thought of my character, and I love that.
I hope they remember the ending, where the character is at peace with her body."
“Entering a changing room, struggling with a swimsuit that doesn't hide your body, not enjoying swimming because of being self-conscious – these are all things I’ve experienced,” she says.
“After Covid restrictions lifted, I went swimming alone for the first time and it was so liberating.
Of course, no one cares about your body but you, and that's what I wanted to show in the film.
"With this project, I'm proud of myself for leaving my comfort zone and making something personal," she adds.
"To now be able to confidently say: 'Hey, I'm fat, and I'm also so much more than that," and to be able to go swimming or to a restaurant completely alone and not care.
I hope that impact translates to whoever watches the film – it does seem to resonate.
I hope they remember the ending where the character is at peace with her body.”
The pandemic was in full force when Izzy began making her film, so the emphasis was on finding a concept something that could be brought to life from her home.
“I love hand-drawn animation and using texture in my films, so I incorporated gloopy melted plasticine and oil pastel mixture for the underwater scenes," she says.
"I also wanted to represent the complex internal feelings of the character, and abstract imagery felt like the best way to do that.”
Improvised sounds, also recorded at home, include a wet swimsuit being slapped against skin and footsteps in the bath to represent feet on pool tiles.
Izzy’s original path into animation came via a foundation course in Art and Design at Oxford Brookes University.
“It really pushed me to try new things and led me to discover the UCA course,” she says.
“My tutor told me: if you're interested in animation, you have to go to UCA Farnham.
"I've always been into films and the theory behind them, but I didn't consider animation until I took an introductory course at Oxford Brookes.
We learned how to create animated gifs in photoshop and ever since then I've been hooked.
Animation is a combination of all the things I love - film, art, and exploring interesting subjects.
What I love most about it is that it gives you the ability to do anything.
For me, it's the most freeing medium and it's a lot easier to express what you want to, even though it takes longer than other art forms.”
“Currently, I'm working at an independent film company and have just completed some freelance work, so the aim is to establish myself as an animator while working on personal films in my spare time,” she says.
Visit our subject pages to find out more about our Animation courses .

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/blogs/kimberleys-animation-answers-a-curious-question:
– is answered in wondrous ways by BA (Hons) Computer Animation Arts graduate Kimberley Davis, who is one of hundreds of graduates exhibiting their work at this year’s Graduation Shows.
We caught up with Kimberley to talk about her work and what’s next.
24 June 2022
Kimberley’s final major project is a charming short film entitled “Where do all the socks go?”, where hidden creatures within the home steal odd socks for comfort while occupants sleep.
Inspired by the likes of Bagpuss and Monsters Inc., the main character - the Sock-Stealer - is made of scraps of fabric with a toggle for a nose.
The Sock-Stealer is given a voice by the family pet, Loki the French Bulldog, and has a soundtrack provided by her partner, Tom, a professional sound designer.
Hi Kimberley, thanks for chatting with us!
What was the inspiration for this story, and were there many changes to the overall plot or style along the way?
“At first this was just meant to be a creature design project but evolved to become a short animation exploring odd occurrences that happen around the home.
The inspiration behind this came late one night when going through lockdown.
My house is an older style building and during the winter, creaking noises would happen from the wood contracting and rattling as the pipes warmed up.
Hearing these noises formed an idea around a hidden ecosystem that lives alongside us to create this phenomenon, such as the floorboards creaking and the car keys going missing.
When discussing this idea with my tutor, the core of the animation moved to fully exploring one question and having fun with it.
“This project went through several changes due to time constraints, balancing a personal/working life and understanding the audience the animation was aimed at.
When coming to the final stages of the project, I decided to leave the animation open-ended to allow further adventures and characters to be introduced later.”
In the film there are noticeably a lot of different light sources and textures – was that a deliberate choice and how easy was it to create leather, metal, fabric, etc?
“The multiple light sources were deliberate and were altered depending on the shot, this was to light up the scene effectively while portraying that the animation was occurring at night.
When looking at references, blueish lighting helped to capture the night-time ambience effectively and create a little more magic to the environment.
"A contracted light source was used on the Sock-Stealer to make it stand out from the background, and the main lighting source was considered when doing this.
The textures were a mix between Photoshop and Substance Painter, I utilised normal and bump maps for the more intricate details such as the wood grain and the stool leather.
Learning texturing was quite challenging but the more I did it, the easier it became, and I found myself really enjoying the whole process.”
How have you found your UCA experience?
“My time studying at UCA has been enjoyable but challenging at times.
Studying during the pandemic completely changed the university ‘experience’ but I feel the tutors did amazingly, transitioning education from in-house to home.
During my time here, I became inspired by all the other amazing creatives studying alongside me and would love to keep in contact with them long after university has finished.”
What is next for you now you’ve graduated?
“The next steps will be to continue honing my skills as a character animator while applying for animator roles within the industry.
I would also like to keep pursuing my own projects so I can keep developing skills within other areas of the 3D pipeline.”
Finally, what advice would you give to students starting out on their computer arts journey?
“The advice I would give to new students would be that it’s OK to feel anxious and that you can take a step back every so often for mental health.
As an older student balancing work, university and personal life, there were times it was very tough to keep motivated, but I had a lot of support from my tutors, family, and friends.
Sadly, I didn’t always take on the advice given me to slow down but if I had to do it again, I would listen more and take the breaks that I needed.”
You can read more about Kimberley’s journey on this project and more about her work on her blog .

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/blogs/how-a-uca-graduate-created-an-american-advertising-icon:
You may be familiar with some of America’s best known commercial characters – from the M&Ms duo to the iconic GEICO lizard – but did you know they were designed and brought to life by a UCA graduate?
01 February 2023
Since then, he’s gone on to become a powerhouse in CGI animation and VFX for hundreds of commercials for the US market and has worked on a number of films and television shows too, including Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, Walking With Beasts, and the Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt.
He got his first break in his final year of study; thanks to a collaborative documentary project he was involved in with UCA film students.
“I was very fortunate that in my final year I had friends who were doing film courses and were working on a documentary project that I squeezed my way on to,” he said.
“We were lucky enough to be able to do work at Framestore in London, but the only time we could use it was in the middle of the night when the only other people working were the CG artists.
That’s how I met the head of CG and I think because I had the traditional skills and a broader palette of experience, they saw some potential.
“They took me on, trained me up and paid for me to complete a postgraduate at Central Saint Martins.
When I finished class, I’d head to the office and jump on the computers that were left behind when people had left for the day.
I found that people really like to see the person behind the showreel, and I think that made a difference.”
David worked at Framestore until 2017 and was responsible for the opening of its CG department in New York in 2004.
A year later, the company gained a contract that would arguably be their biggest success.
“When we won the account, the GEICO gecko was already in existence – they just wanted it to be more expressive and be the star of the commercials,” he said.
“We had six weeks to design and build him before we even worked on a commercial, which was fantastic.
The brief was to make him robust and enduring, that he could work in many different scenarios.
Initially we were booked to do nine commercials, which was great because most agencies sign you for two or three.
But by the time I left Framestore.
we’d made 99 commercials, and I think they’ve made about 115 now.
“It was somewhat of a unicorn relationship really.
And I miss him, he’s become a long-lost son to me!”
David has fond memories of his time at UCA, where he learned a multitude of animation techniques and spent his whole student loan on a mac to learn basic computer animation techniques outside of class, and where he and his cohort enjoyed being the first to stay at the Farnham Student Village.
“It was so great, being able to roll out of bed and be in class five minutes later,” he joked.
“I remember at my interview the chair, who I already knew from my time at UWE where I did my foundation, warning me that Farnham was a ‘bit quiet’ but I loved it!
You knew everyone on campus, it wasn’t too busy.
I had friends who went to London, and they were sort of lost, almost.
I never felt that at Farnham.
I still have friends from my time at UCA and I have many fond memories.”
David is now founder and Managing Director of Free Range VFX in New York, which has clients including LEGO, Kellogg’s, and Anheuser-Busch but is also working separately on its own original animated content.
“When we set the studio up, we made room for resources to create our own content,” he said.
“We have writers and pre-production talent, and a bulletproof production pipeline, so we can take a breather from client work, and show a bit more of what we can do creatively.”
The collaborative work that helped provide the springboard to a highly successful career is what still thrills David today.
“I do like being part of a team, especially where Free Range is creatively leading the work, and seeing our creatives over deliver and exceed expectations.
In terms of animation, the key-framed animated performances that have just brilliant timing, and that spark of magic, still excites me.”
Working in teams and exceeding expectations are just some of the qualities David looks for in new recruits, too.
He says that authenticity and a willingness to learn are also things he seeks when interviewing new graduates.
But he concedes, while it’s easy to platform work online, it’s still hard to break through to the right people.
“I still value going to job fairs because you get to see the people behind the showreels, and there’s some great tools online to share work with the world, although some of the bigger companies have systems in place to digitally sift through applications, and that’s hard to break through.
“I understand it’s hard to be face to face, I remember the horror of my graduation show, answering questions from people while you stand by your work – it’s very exposing and intimidating.
But I’ve found human connection really does help, as well as being persistent (without being annoying!)”
We have a range of courses for budding animators and VFX artists, just check out our course pages to see what suits you.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ba-games-animation:
Ranked 25th in The Rookies Top 50 Creative Schools in the World 2024
Access to cutting-edge facilities including Vicon motion capture suite
One of the highest achieving universities for emerging talent, according to Grads in Games' Search for a Star 2024
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our BA (Hons) Games Animation degree:
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Games Animation students may be interested in.
Why Games Animation stood out to me
Launch Week All launch weeks feature a range of activities, which will comprise an interdisciplinary Industry Guest Speakers’ Series offered to all students across the School of Games and Creative Technology.
There will also be other activities, such as study trips and/or studio visits, and o local, Design Sprints, could also take place.
Principles of Animation At the heart of this modules are a series of practical hand-keyed animation challenges which will support you in developing your understanding of key animation principle, and the core skills necessary for the creation of 3D computer animation.
You’ll also be introduced to the motion-capture process, and the key concepts and theories relevant to your practice as a games animator.
Equality Diversity and Inclusion The unit provides an opportunity for you to explore what is meant by equality, diversity, and inclusion and the implications of these concepts on your own creative practice.
Board Games Design You’ll be asked to use the fundamental game design skills and knowledge you learned so far and apply them to paper-based design.
Working in teams, you’ll prototype and build a board game.
Final games will be presented as a group at the end of the unit, giving you a chance to build on your presentation and pitching skills, too.
Opportunity Week Opportunity Week gives you the chance to try something a little different, broaden your engagement and your subject knowledge, such as Games Jams and Design Sprints.
There may also be study trips and/or studio visits locally, in major hubs like London and even internationally for festivals, or trips museums, galleries and festivals.
Technical Animation for Games This has two core focuses – the first to explore the process of preparing modelled game assets for animation through the creation of animation control systems, and the second to explore the use of animation systems within game engines to create interactive animations.
Client Brief You’ll be asked to use your skills and knowledge to work on a client-facing brief.
You’ll work individually or in teams to respond, building your collaborative skills.
And you’ll focus on refining your presentation skills to ensure outcomes are shared successfully.
Interactive Narratives You’ll study popular frameworks and theoretical concepts such as designing a plot, character, setting, dialogue, culminating in making your own interactive narrative.
You’ll investigate narrative as a psychological and anthropological phenomenon, before understanding its most contemporary and experimental forms embodied in postmodernism, and finally, games as narrative architectures for exploration.
ATOM Activities ATOM activities are tiny pieces of diverse individual learning that facilitate interdisciplinary exposure and give you the chance to learn topics that would not otherwise be scheduled on your timetable.
PLE Digital Outcome 1 Your PLE Digital Outcome is a purposefully edited, self-directed record of your constructive engagement with and presence on, digital media platforms across the year.
Examples of this could be an online portfolio or blog/vlog, or social media activity.
Character Animation for Games This units builds upon the foundational animation skills acquired in prior units and further develops them within the more complex field of character animation
Performance Animation You’ll will explore the key areas relevant to character animation for cut-scenes, such as lip sync and facial animation, as well as the use of reference footage to deliver an emotional performance.
Industry Brief You’ll use your skills and workflows to produce work for an industry brief, who will set specific parameters and conditions to be met by a deadline.
This could include style guides, historic markers, format conditions, audience, and genre.
You’ll work as individuals or in a team (depending on the brief) and develop new skills in engaging and communicating effectively with your fellow students, including your ability to respond to an industry focused brief.
In addition, you will focus on refining your presentation skills to ensure that you successfully share the outcomes, reflecting on your output.
ATOM Activities and PLE Digital Outcome These units are an extension of the Year 1 ATOM Activities and PLE Digital Outcome.
Final Major Project: Pre-Production Your final year allows you to develop a significant body of work that demonstrates your chosen pathway discipline, ideation skills, genre interests and your aspiration for your future role within the Games and entertainment industries.
This unit is all about developing your project proposal through which you will define the concept, scope, audience, and purpose of your Final Major Project.
Final Major Project: Critical and Conceptual Influences This unit consists of a period of sustained, individually negotiated research which will help you develop an appropriate methodological approach towards your Final Major Project.
You’ll produce a written piece that reflects upon and articulates a clear and sustained argument.
Professional Practice You’ll identify, explore and develop professional promotional resources that highlight your strengths and your body of work.
This will help you define and present yourself in a professional manner to external parties, in line with the conventions of professional practice and the workplace.
Final Major Project: Production The culmination of your studies, you’ll follow through with your agreed proposal to produce a body of work that demonstrates your creativity, skill, knowledge and understanding of recognised games industry practices and pipelines, to a professional standard.
You will take responsibility for your own development in anticipation of graduation and professional practice in the computer games industry, and you’ll be required to keep a development journal to document your technical skills and ideas, your process, and your ongoing critical evaluation and reflection.
Please see the Additional Course Costs section of the Course Information Document for details of the costs you may incur.
Our professional staff have close connections with alumni of the Gnomon School of Visual Effects, West Hollywood, as well as with new and established CG arts, animation and creative media opportunities.
Possible career destinations include:
Graduates have gone on to work at companies such as:
Watch the interview with graduate Urvashi who after graduation worked in industry and then has also continued onto a postgraduate course at UCLA in America: Interview For UCA
Programme Director of Games
Senior Lecturer Games Animation
Lecturer in Games Theory
Senior Lecturer in Games Programming & Development
View Games Animation portfolio advice

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2025/big-wins-at-animated-histories-film-festival:
Two BA (Hons) animation students celebrate success at this year’s Animated Histories Film Festival after submitting their imaginative and compelling animations with a heritage theme.
28 March 2025
George Cook, a second-year student, won Best Animation in the 18-25 age category and was named Overall Winner of that age group, with his film, From the Sun, You Fell .
The festival, delivered by English Heritage’s youth engagement programme Shout Out Loud, is partnered with the Aardman Academy and is a showcase for talented emerging stop-motion animators to bring history to life through storytelling.
“It’s still such an overwhelming surprise that my film won,” George said.
“Especially given Aardman’s involvement in the festival and immaculate work, their involvement was a major motivator for me submitting my film and I’m so grateful that it connected with the judging panel as well as it did.”
Inspired by Greek mythology, his film recounts the aftermath of the fall of Icarus, focusing on his father’s (Daedalus) uncontrollable guilt, denial, and then his eventual steps to rehabilitation, which George believes goes largely overlooked.
Crafting the Daedalus puppet from felt and creating scenes with Polyfilla, George hoped this sculptural style would reflect the paintings and sculptures that are associated with Greek mythology.
Shout Out Loud announced on Instagram: “Well done to our overall Animated Histories film festival winner George!
We were all absolutely blown away by their entry and are thrilled that they have won a commission with @aardmananimations Academy.”
George wins a paid commission with English Heritage and Aardman Academy to bring to life a heritage story linked specifically to an English Heritage site.
He added: “The commission prize is an amazing opportunity to jumpstart my career in stop motion, alongside getting personal mentoring hours from Aardman Academy itself – it’s so inspiring how actively they support up-and-coming animators.
“I’m so excited to start working on it later this year, researching an English Heritage site.”
Elly Willats, in her final year at UCA, was Runner-up in the Most Inspired Story category, with her film Caesar Trapped at Sea, reimagining the past in ways that captivate and connect us.
The story features a group of pirates who have kidnapped the future Emperor of Rome, Julius Caesar, who in turn barrages them with speeches and threats of execution, seen until it’s a joke until it’s too late.
“I’ve always been fascinated by Roman history and this story has stuck with me since my A-level course, so it felt perfect for this competition,” Elly said.
She used paper cut-outs to bring the stop-motion to life, and with her animation, she hoped to show what Caesar was like before the all-powerful figure we know.
She added: “I hope this shows the viewer a little more of who Caesar was before and that even at a young age he was still sure of himself and the level of respect and power he deserved.”
To learn more about studying animation at UCA, visit our course pages.
Read about all the winners on the Shout Out Loud website.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2024/animals-view-own-pawtraits-at-uca-exhibition:
A meerkat, skunk, armadillo, tortoise, snake and bearded dragon have attended a miniature art exhibition curated by the University for the Creative Arts (UCA), to see their ‘pawtraits’ for the first time.
28 November 2024
The animal life drawings, hung in an animal-sized art gallery made to scale and titled Please Don’t Eat the Art, were created by third-year students studying a degree in animation at UCA.
From black-and-white depictions in charcoal and pencil, to sketches in oil, pastel, and watercolour, around 100 students took part in an animal life drawing class, with the ‘best in show’ selected for the unique exhibition.
Harriet Croucher, a lecturer in animation at UCA, and organiser of the exhibition, said: “I don’t know when else in their lifetime the students would be able to draw animals up close and personal, working on your artwork alongside you.
And as they move constantly, students often end up surprised by what they produce – we got some well-observed and expressive artworks.
But, never have we welcomed the animals back to see the drawings for themselves – and what better critics?
I’m just glad none of them ate the pieces.”
An animation student added: “ Being able to draw animals as they are – the texture, colour and markings – helped us capture their personality and the essence of what they are, and when they started running around and causing chaos that was fun.”
Other notable alumni from UCA’s animation course, who also featured animals in their work include Mark Baker, one of the co-founders of the animated series Peppa Pig; Grant Orchard, the creator of Hey Duggee; and Darren Walsh, who created Aleksandr the meerkat for Compare the Market.
Watch the video

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/blogs/laurens-animation-bridges-the-divide:
When Lauren Denyer was considering what to make her final year animation about, she decided to tackle a subject close to her heart: the realities of being a child of divorce.
19 June 2024
Animation graduate Lauren has drawn on her own experiences to create a beautiful short film showcasing the lows – and the highs – that come from having divorced parents.
Divide is narrated by Lauren and is drawn in a traditional style with a limited colour palette.
In it, she talks about how difficult it can be to balance the expectations of two parents who live apart, before talking about the many benefits that can come with time – like building close relationships with new step-siblings and seeing her parents happy.
“For my final major project, we were told to choose something we enjoy or are passionate about and for me that was my family.
Divorce has been a huge part of my family’s life, yet it is something we don’t really talk about,” she said.
“My sisters were eager for me to do this animation and helped me with the script so it’s from all of us.
I didn’t want this animation to be a blame game or a sob story, so it was hard to try and find a balance where nobody got offended.
Once I had the script sorted the visuals came to my head immediately.
I had so much fun pushing myself with transitions and metaphors which was tough, because it was such a personal subject.
It’s been the project I have been most passionate about from across the entire course, and I’m glad I had the opportunity to talk about this subject.”
Divide took just over three months to make, and while Lauren told her parents about the project, they did not see the animation until it was finished.
She said: “There were mixed emotions but all of them were proud, supportive and told me they loved it which I am very grateful for.”
Lauren’s love of animation comes courtesy of Disney and Pixar.
She has always loved drawing, but the two films she counts as being her biggest inspiration are Robin Hood (1973) – “I remember noticing all the pencil work in the animation and the hand painted backgrounds - that in itself is magical to me,” – and the Pixar short The Blue Umbrella (2013).
“The rollercoaster of emotions I felt watching that, with what is such a simple concept, was amazing, and I knew I wanted to create work that had that effect,” says Lauren.
Living near Farnham, Lauren says she knew BA (Hons) Animation at UCA was the right course for her.
“Within the first year I felt confident across all the programmes, with the support of the tutors and workshops,” she explains.
“I also found a love for hand-drawn 2D animation, and have grown from every project since, with the guidance and push of the tutors,” she says.
“I’ve also loved the live project briefs we’ve done, and I was surprised how much I enjoyed working within a team, which is something I am now looking forward to doing in my career.”
As well as forming part of UCA’s Grad Show, Divide has been submitted to two film festivals, Animasyros International Film Festival, and London International Animation Festival.
Following graduation, Lauren hopes to join a studio and work alongside like-minded animators, but her ultimate dream is to be a creative director.
“I just love animating, and want to do what I love for a living,” she says.
You can see Lauren’s work at UCA Farnham’s Grad Show from June 13 to June 25, and online .

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2024/animation-graduate-celebrates-with-bafta-win:
Crab Day, a heart-warming tale of boy and crab, has made University for the Creative Arts (UCA) animation graduate Ross Stringer a BAFTA winner!
19 February 2024
Ross Stringer (Director & Animator), Bartosz Stanislawek (Producer), Aleksandra Sykulak (Screenwriter), pose in the Winners Room with the British Short Animation Award for 'Crab Day' during the EE BAFTA Film Awards 2024 at The Royal Festival Hall on February 18, 2024 in London, England.
Having graduated from UCA fo u r years ago, and currently working at the university as a visiting lecturer, th e win marks a life-changing moment in the young animator’s career.
“That’s the exciting thing,” said Ross.
“The opportunities it will hopefully bring.
Plus, the BAFTAs function as a proof of concept – that all these people appreciate it.”
Ross Stringer screening Crab Day at UCA Farnham
Ross screened Crab Day to staff and students at UCA Farnham just a few days before the ceremony, and explained how Covid played a part in its inception.
“I held on to the idea for a whole year.
I was always interested in the imagery of fish.
After graduating from UCA Farnham, I went back to live with my parents, using my hour of outdoor time walking around my hometown of Great Yarmouth , walking along the beach, looking at buildings, and people.
That summoned up all these memories of how I grew up."
The boy in Crab Day is based on Ross and explores his relationship with masculinity and how he defines it.
Lesley Adams, Programme Director of a nimation at UCA, said: “When I first saw it, I knew it would do well because the heart of the film is there.”
Ross, whose animation aesthetic is stripped back, was influenced by old drawings he’d made when he was five a s well as cave paintings, such as the Lascaux Caves, dubbed as the earliest form of animation.
“I love how they always draw the animals massive, ” said Ross , of ancient cave paintings .
“It gives you the impression that the animal is held as a huge cultural significance amongst the people.
I wanted to mirror that with my crab.”
In his acceptance speech at the glittering ceremony on Sunday night , Ross said: “There’s a lot to be said about the power of standing up for what you believe in and choosing to be yourself, no matter what the world expects of you.
Thank you very much.”
And as for what he wore to the ceremony , Ross recently confessed that he knows nothing about fashion and the b l ack tie event made him feel like ‘a fish out of water’, so he enlisted the help of a local company called Yarmouth Oilskins, who make functional clothes designed for all weather, to create a bespoke suit for him to wear on the red carpet.
You can follow Ross's future endeavours on Instagram.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2024/animation-couple-win-industry-accolades:
A couple from the University for the Creative Arts (UCA) are receiving international acclaim for their short animated films, including a nomination by BAFTA.
18 January 2024
Ciara Kerr and Ross Stringer graduated from the BA (Hons) Animation course in 2020, where they met and got together.
Living together and working together in the same industry could be seen to be challenging, but Ciara and Ross have had success after success.
Ross’ latest achievement comes in the form of a BAFTA nomination for his animation Crab Day , which is currently doing the rounds at festivals.
It is one of three films in the British Short Animation category, up against Visible Mending and Wild Summon .
Crab Day , which already won the Best British Film Award at the London International Film Festival 2023, is inspired by the seaside town where Ross grew up, with its fishing heritage.
The animated short is the story of a little boy who, as part of a fishing community’s annual ritual, must kill his first crab to become a man and gain his father’s approval.
Meanwhile, Ciara’s short animation, Homemaker , has received international acclaim, winning Best Animation at the This is England Film Festival in Rouen and Best Film and Outstanding Award at the International Student Film and Video Festival in Beijing.
The film is about a woman who has lost herself to an abusive relationship, and finding her way out.
Surprisingly, given the topic of gender violence, it is also a musical and features The Voice finalist, Miss Baby Sol.
Besides festivals, Ciara is also experiencing success in feature films, most recently working with Nick Love, director of The Football Factory, on some animated scenes for its sequel – Marching Powder – to come out later this year, starring Danny Dyer.
And while doing the rounds at international film and animation festivals, it’s hard to imagine what it feels like for the animators to have audiences finally watching their creations after a year or more in the making.
Ross said: “When you're done you've got a finished thing, but you're so blind to it.
Then they go around these festivals, and a few months later, after you haven't watched it in a while, you see it, and suddenly you’re inspired again.”
Ciara, who attended a festival screening in Beijing, had at least 20 women come up to her afterwards to tell her how grateful they were that this film was out there.
“It’s nice because it’s so hard making the films, but we’re making them for people to see."
So, what are the best things about living together and working in the same industry?
“It’s helpful to have that sounding board,” said Ciara.
“I think we bring the best out in each other because we are in the same industry and we can help each other out.”
“What we make is so different,” added Ross.
“On the surface we both make animations, but we have different goals within the industry.
I’m more interested in going down a subgenre of animation – I’ve this want to explore everything.”
“Whereas I’m happy right now doing commercial work and doing these bigger film projects, being an animation director under a live-action director,” said Ciara.
While Ciara describes Ross as an extremely good animator with an interesting and unique voice, Ross describes Ciara as a wonderful collaborator with a clear vision, a strong identity as an artist, and a strong voice.
And from two people experiencing incredible success in the industry, what advice do they have for animation students graduating this summer?
Ross said: “Commercial jobs can become stagnant; you’re often reproducing something easy, so it’s important to remain playful and build your portfolio that way.
“It’s also good to remember it’s okay to have a part-time job that isn’t in animation.
I’ve always done this, and it keeps your brain open to ideas.”
“And talking to people,” added Ciara.
“Doing new things, going to festivals, meeting people because [the animation industry] is such a small world, so keep expanding your network.”
But Ross was keen to add: “Festivals aren’t places to pitch ideas, just meet people who you know you want to work with on a human level.
Enjoy the journey and make the most of jobs, how can you be a little bit more creative with it?”
Ciara and Ross also teach part-time on UCA’s animation course alongside programme director Lesley Adams, who they have described as a huge role model and mentor.
She instilled in them two final pieces of advice they have for animation students.
Firstly, the importance of pitching.
Lesley understands that graduates who are skilled in the art of pitching their film – for investment and support – is integral to have success in the industry.
Secondly, be a nice person.
“That’s the biggest thing they said at UCA, because [to get ahead in the industry] it doesn’t matter how good you are if you’re not a nice person.”
The BAFTA winners will be announced at a ceremony on 18 February.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2023/grads-nominated-for-bfi-future-film-festival-award:
Two UCA graduates have been nominated for the 16th BFI Future Film Festival Awards.
17 February 2023
The awards, supported by Netflix and spanning ten categories, recognise, celebrate, and reward talented young filmmakers aged 16 to 25 whose films were screened as part of this year’s festival.
Daylen Oakes, who graduated in BA (Hons) Film Production last year, has earned a Best Film  nomination for his piece, Bet Fredrica .
The film is about a single mother, Mary, who has a gambling addiction and makes an all-or-nothing bet on the Grand National for her daughter Millie.
Daylen came to the film after exploring similar themes about the demonisation of the working class in his previous film, A Most Uncivil War , and from childhood memories of placing a 50p bet on the race.
“Gambling is a poverty tax of sorts,” said Daylen.
“With Bet Fredrica I wanted to show how communities were built in the bookies; there’s excitement and tragedy all at once.”
The biggest challenge for Daylen was the set.
After unsuccessful attempts to secure a shop space to recreate the bookmakers, Daylen and his production designer, Aidan Ashton, decided to design a space from scratch using a university classroom.
Coming to UCA allowed Daylen to be much more practical and hands-on filmmaking.
With a reputation for being one of the best film production courses, the three-year allowed Daylen to work with like-minded creatives, making things off their own backs.
“Film as a medium lends itself to fully immersing yourself within it, said Daylen.
“You watch a film at different points in your life and take something new from it.
Not only does a film tell a story but it reflects the ideas and attitudes of those making it, like a little bookmark in their personal history.”
On speaking about his future film career, Daylen added: “My goal is to show how British film can be more honest with itself, showing where we are as a culture not only in a serious setting but a humorous one too.”
Khalidah McLarty, a who graduated in animation last year, has been nominated for Best Animation for her film, Please Clap , which follows a clown called Mikey who must confront complex feelings he has regarding his persona after being fired from his job and discovers he might be a bit more attached to the stage than he previously thought.
“The initial idea came in a passing thought that I ended up lingering on.
But upon further reflection, it was a manifestation of my fears and frustrations around change and failure, said Khalidah.
“Animation is such an incredibly important art form; It’s beautiful, challenging, and thought-provoking.
The only limits on what you can do with it are how creative you are, how skilled you are, and how much time you have.”
If the two graduates win, not only will they take home the top prize, they’ll also win £1,000 – and Khalidah could also take home a mentoring package.
Three of the ten awards, Best Film, Best Director and Best New Talent are judged by the BFI’s Festival Jury, which is chaired by filmmaker Peter Kosminsky (Wolf Hall) and includes actors Kit Connor (Heartstopper) and Bella Ramsey (The Last of Us, Game of Thrones), writer-director Matthew Jacobs Morgan (The Rig) and critic and author Hanna Flint.
The winners will be announced on 19 February at a ceremony at BFI Southbank.
Please Clap will also be showing at Leeds International Film Festival – INDIs – later this month.
To learn more about film and animation at UCA, visit the course pages.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ba-interior-decoration-styling:
Our interior design courses are ranked 15th in the UK by The Guardian for 2025
Freedom to establish your own unique specialisms
Understand, project and anticipate trends in spatial aesthetics
This course is available for applications into Year 2 or 3.
Understand, project, and anticipate interiors trends on this disruptive BA (Hons) Interior Decoration & Styling degree course that challenges you to change people’s perception of space.
Closely aligned with fashion industry practices, this degree, taught at UCA Canterbury, will appeal to students who are interested in fashion, trends, and popular ideas and want to follow and create markets as they focus on the whole aesthetic of a space, or the creation of images of spaces for traditional or digital media.
Your work will be strongly aligned to media in both its interest, as well as its output, all within a creative community that's challenging the norms and status quo of spatial design.
If you want to become a confident designer able to articulate sophisticated, trendsetting ideas, this could be the degree for you.
P
Please note, this course is only available for applications into Year 2 or 3 of the course.
To apply for Year 2 please use the direct application link below.
For entries into Year 3 please contact our admissions teams:
UK applicants: admissions@uca.ac.uk International/EU applicants: internationaladmissions@uca.ac.uk
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Interior Decoration & Styling students may be interested in.
Studios, UCA Canterbury
Fabrication Lab, UCA Canterbury
Architecture TrakLab, UCA Canterbury
Graduates can expect to leave this course to progress within their career in many different roles.
BSc (Hons) course - Year 2*
BSc (Hons) course - Year 3*
For these courses, we’ll need to see your portfolio for review.
We’ll invite you to attend an Applicant Day so you can have your portfolio review in person, meet the course team and learn more about your course.
View more portfolio advice
BSc (Hons) course Year 2 / Year 3 entry
The entry requirements for these courses will depend on the country your qualifications are from, please contact our International Admissions team to discuss your application: internationaladmissions@uca.ac.uk
You will be required to submit a online portfolio for review.
Further information on specific portfolio requirements and how to submit your portfolio will be sent to you after we have reviewed your application.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ba-interior-design:
Bridge the gap between architecture, fine art and spatial practice
Become an expert in understanding the human experience in interior spaces
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our BA (Hons) Interior Design degree:
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Interior Design students may be interested in.
The first year of the course explores a wide range of techniques.
This includes technical drawing, model making and digital tools and materials.
You'll also learn to express your design thinking and communicate your creative intent.
Your second-year centres on live projects with real clients and real sites.
You'll gain insight into professional practice as you respond to real-world design briefs creatively and practically.
The year will include work across different scales, from the architecture of the space to the materials and details of your design.
This will all be done while considering the needs of your client and the people using the space.
Specifically, it asks you to use theory to develop understandings of the ways in which ideas are both contextual and connected to wider logics and world views
It will not be possible to transfer onto the Professional Practice Year after enrolment.
In the final year of your Interior Design degree you'll explore your own design interests.
You'll do this by writing your own brief that brings together your skills, ideas and personal design approach.
This is your chance to explore a theme you're passionate about, develop it through research, testing and design.
By the end of the year you'll have produced an innovative body of work that reflects your creative identity and future ambitions.
Launch For your final Launch Week, you’ll spend the week getting ready for your final year of study, and re-orientating after your summer break.
There are open plan studio spaces for the course, used for group tutorials and personal working.
Our graduates are equipped to pursue a host of design roles, and many of our alumni work for global design and architecture firms, but also smaller regional UK design companies.
As well as the more standard careers in interior design and architectural design, we facilitate a wide range of specialisms that reflect individual interests.
These can open up potential future careers in:
"I think that we're very lucky with the facilities; I've had the opportunity to work with many different mediums including clay, wood, laser cutter, and 3D printing.
I really like the support network that is created by the university.
"
Sophia Clunies-Ross
View Interior Design portfolio advice

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ba-landscape-architecture-design:
Access to advanced forms of fabrication and testing
Focused on building climate resilience in our towns and cities
UCA’s architecture courses share an activist approach, using design to meet the challenges of today and tomorrow.
On our BA (Hons) Landscape Architecture & Design degree course at UCA Canterbury, you’ll focus on the major challenge of the next 30 to 50 years – building climate resilience in our towns and cities.
This practical, hands-on course has been designed in collaboration with industry specialists, and is as attuned to horticultural knowledge as it is to design.
In the unique landscape of Canterbury, you’ll also have the ideal setting for your studies.
Learning the complex vocabulary, norms of approach, drawing techniques, and collaborative skills to become a confident and forward-thinking landscape architect, you’ll graduate ready to forge a career in an exciting, vital field with rapidly evolving demands.
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Landscape Architecture & Design students may be interested in.
Projects 03 You’ll be encouraged to explore and interrogate a landscape and develop small spatial interventions within it.
You’ll explore the relationships between interior and exterior spaces and how the architectural interventions that we make may be experienced by those who inhabit them.
Landscape for Equity 02 In this unit, you will deepen your understanding of the technological principles, regulations, and societal challenges that shape contemporary landscape design.
You’ll focus on the role of cultural diversity, non-Western perspectives, and vernacular practices in creating climate resilient landscapes.
Projects 04 Advancing your knowledge and skills, you’ll design a medium-scale landscape project, exploring complex relationships between productive ecologies and the city, its people, environment, and climate.
You develop a deeper knowledge of contemporary agendas of permaculture, horticulture, and agriculture to produce a design proposal informed by your experiences in a real-world "test bed," where you will demonstrate the cultivation and harvesting of specimen plants and products.
Launch For your final Launch week you’ll be gearing up for your final year of study through a range of activities, which could include a multi-story guest lecture super session, an all staff pecha kucher, Canterbury and surroundings walking orientation tours or a studio launch collaborative making project.
Projects 05 You’ll develop detailed proposals for the landscape design of a housing scheme and use your design as the basis for a professional practice report related to the realisation of the project.
The unit has two components - a portfolio on landscape design in relation to the home at a variety of scales, and a report that explores the legal and procedural characteristics of practicing as a landscape architect in the UK, based upon your emerging design.
Briefs and Positions 03 In the Briefs and Positions 03 unit you will prepare an advanced set of briefing materials that will inform and guide your development of a medium-scale design for your final projects unit.
Projects 06 In this final project unit you’ll undertake a large scale landscape design project.
You will establish a sophisticated dialogue between topography, local, social and political issues, city scale structures, regional objectives and the way that all these impacts the lives of individuals.
You will engage pre-existing, disparate functions in new ways to generate cultural outcomes, agendas and patterns of use.
FabLAB, UCA Canterbury
Digital suites, UCA Canterbury
Virtual Reality lab, UCA Canterbury
Graduates of this course can expect to leave and develop their career in several different roles.
These can include:
BA (Hons) course - Year 2*
BA (Hons) course - Year 3*
BA (Hons) course Year 2 / Year 3 entry
You will be required to submit an online portfolio for review.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ma-interior-design:
The MA Interior Design degree at UCA Canterbury is for designers who want to push their thinking, test their ideas, and grow their practice.
This Interior Design course is about more than mastering skills; it’s about finding your voice and learning how to use it through design.
It will give you the space, structure and support to explore what interior design means to you, and how you can use it to shape the world around you.
We see interior design as more than decoration or function.
It’s about how people feel in a space, how materials and objects interact, and how we create meaningful connections between people, places and experiences.
We encourage you to see space as a medium for communication, culture and change.
This course is open to graduates from interior design and related disciplines who are ready to take the next step.
You might be looking to specialise in a new area, experiment with emergent tools and technologies, or refine your approach to spatial design.
Whatever your direction, you’ll find the freedom and guidance to build a practice that’s truly your own.
Conversation is a key part of how we teach.
Through regular tutorials, critiques and studio discussions, you’ll develop your ideas in dialogue with tutors, peers and visiting professionals.
You’ll explore how interior design connects with themes like sustainability, heritage, immersive media, social impact and more — and how you want to position yourself in relation to them.
As part of this Interior Design masters degree you’ll work on a self-directed major project that reflects your personal interests and ambitions.
You’ll also take part in hands-on workshops, research, prototyping and testing using both digital and physical tools.
There’s a strong focus on rigorous process development, helping you refine your thinking, test ideas thoroughly, and build a design methodology that is both reflective and robust.
Whether you’re drawn to domestic interiors, exhibitions, retail environments or speculative spaces, we'll support you in developing a distinctive and thoughtful design process.
Our studio culture is collaborative and inclusive.
You’ll share ideas, feedback and opportunities with students from MA Product Design and MA Architecture , enriching your understanding of how interiors relate to objects, experiences and the built environment.
You’ll also take part in study visits and hear from guest critics and practitioners who bring global and industry perspectives.
After you completing your Masters in Interior Design you’ll leave with a strong body of work.
You'll also have a clearer sense of your design identity and have gained the confidence to move forward into professional practice, further study or your own design venture.
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our MA Interior Design degree:
MA Interior Design course introduction
MA course
We've got extensive contacts across the range of interior design disciplines.
Live projects, research analysis and feasibility studies will draw on our wide range of contacts and associations.
Connections include specialists in the related fields of audio-visual technologies, lighting design and interactive design.
Career opportunities exist within design or architectural consultancies in retail, leisure, exhibition, office, hotel, residential and cruise ship design, as well as in the fields of design management, interior or film-set design.
Our course has a strong ecological focus with opportunities for engaging with both the theoretical and practical aspects of real-world sustainability.
"UCA has proved to be a great choice for me; the skills that students acquire are highly sought after in industry and my MA in particular, gave me a more rounded skill set than some, which was advantageous and helped to bring fantastic opportunities my way."
Sonny Cant

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/master-of-architecture:
UCA's two-year Master of Architecture (MArch) course will challenge you to design the spaces and buildings of the future and to consider their societal and environmental impacts.
Reflecting the profession’s evolving role, its responsibilities within wider society, and the need for more sustainable professional practice, this course will challenge you to consolidate your architectural experiences, both in education and in practice, while simultaneously questioning your preconceptions of the discipline.
By the end of your studies, you will be able to initiate and deliver projects grounded in design-based research, and continue a process of learning through practice-based experimentation and enquiry.
The course carries full and unconditional prescription from the Royal Institute of British Architects (RIBA Part 2) and the Architects Registration Board (ARB) as satisfying their postgraduate competency outcomes criteria.
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our MArch Master of Architecture (ARB/RIBA Part 2) degree:
Two-year course will challenge you to design the spaces and buildings of the future and to consider their societal and environmental impacts.
A good Honours degree in Architecture (normally 2.2 or above) with Part 1 of the professional qualification recognised by the ARB and RIBA and Normally one year in an architectural practice following the Part 1 qualification.
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Master of Architecture (ARB/RIBA Part 2) students may be interested in.
In year one, you'll undertake a number of tutor-led studio design projects.
Lecture and seminar series are interwoven with studio design projects and inform their content.
Design Research 01 You’ll embark on an extended piece of complex architectural design research, leading to a rigorous proposal.
It should demonstrate your ability to devise ambitious architectural strategies, structural and sustainable objectives and approaches and coherent responses to site within the project as a whole.
Design Research 02 You will extend and amplify the architectural design research initiated in the first module, leading to a rigorous proposal or proposals for a complex architectural design.
Design Technology You will devise and implement a programme of research into technologies and experimentation.
This usually emerges from the themes and issues in your design research project.
The unit includes a series of programmed interdisciplinary workshops to introduce key skills and concepts, providing specialist inputs and opportunities to evaluate individual research from different vantage points.
Dissertation (option1) This unit comprises a period of self-directed research on a subject related to the historical, theoretical and critical concerns of architecture.
You will present a written dissertation (8,000-10,000 words) in which you will be expected to develop and articulate a sustained argument that demonstrates a high level of understanding of the subject area through analysis and evaluation.
Dissertation (option 2) As with option 1, your dissertation will relate to the historical, theoretical and critical concerns of architecture.
You will complete a research project, presented using alternate media (film, installation, software etc.) and an exegesis (2,000-3,500 words).
In year two, you'll develop your own research agendas, drawing heavily upon the issues and methodologies introduced in year one.
Thesis 01 You'll develop and present your design thesis project.
The format of presentation may include the production of diverse media, for example models, drawings, installation, video, photography and text.
Thesis 02 This second phase involves the development and presentation of the thesis.
The format of presentation is agreed with individual thesis tutors and may include the production of models, drawings, installation, video, photography and text.
Future Practice Through lectures, workshops and tutorials, this unit is designed to provoke experimentation, risk-taking, exploratory and playful work while addressing the rigours of professional practice.
A range of topics, including business (including marketing and advertising), economics, law and legal, management, media, systems and operation, and professional practices will be covered.
There is also a series of talks centred around the RIBA stages: pre-agreement, ideas-design, pre-construction, construction and completion.
Realisation You'll produce a technologically-driven realisation which arises out of an issue identified in your design Thesis.
You are required to apply your understanding of technical knowledge to the resolution of building design problems, or to the development of novel approaches to design issues through rigorous, well–documented experimentation.
MArch course
Graduates of this course may begin their career as a freelance architect or might decide to apply for a role within a business or organisations.
These roles might include:
"I would definitely recommend the MArch course at UCA.
The curriculum is challenging, interesting and ambitious in its scope and this really brings the best out of students who fully embrace it.
The course taught me to approach projects with a great deal of rigour and develop manifestos that are both conceptual and contextual."
Beth Lambert
We require the equivalent of a UK 2:2 Honours degree in Architecture.
The exact grade required for non-UK qualifications will be confirmed at the time of application.
View Master of Architecture portfolio advice
*The process for confirming Part 1 equivalence of overseas qualifications is undertaken by the ARB, the independent statutory regulator of architects in the UK, and also the UK's Competent Authority for Architects.
Read our about this or visit the ARB website .

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/postgrad-cert-professional-practice-architecture:
Complete the final stage in your training to become an architect with our Postgraduate Certificate in Professional Practice in Architecture (Part 3).
This 12-month course provides you with the foundation for life-long learning and development towards becoming a certified member of the architectural profession.
It is predominantly taught online, allowing you the flexibility to manage your time appropriately around your professional practice commitments.
Programmed lectures will be uploaded throughout the course, and will remain available so you can watch and re-watch at your own pace, while programmed online webinars/tutorials will happen periodically at pre-determined times to encourage discourse around taught topics and the development of an online community.
This course will equip you with the skills and competencies you need to work in an ethical and professional manner.
The content of the course is based on helping you to satisfy each of the professional competencies laid out jointly by the ARB/RIBA.
Namely: PC1 Professionalism PC2 Clients, users, and delivery of services PC3 Legal framework and processes PC4 Practice and management PC5 Building procurement This course has received accreditation from ARB and RIBA (Image above by www.kentdesign.org )
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our Postgraduate Certificate Professional Practice in Architecture (ARB/RIBA Part 3) degree:
Applicants should have a RIBA/ARB Part 1 and Part 2 in architecture or equivalent
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Professional Practice in Architecture (ARB/RIBA Part 3) students may be interested in.
The course runs for 12-months and is a part-time course.
The assessment comprises several elements for successful completion and are as follows:
Practice and Entrepreneurship
The Practice and Entrepreneurship unit focuses upon the elements of the curriculum set out by the ARB/RIBA within the Professional Competencies (PC) 3 through to 5.
It delivers teaching through an online lecture series and intensive tutorial/seminar days.
The teaching provided will augment and develop best practice approaches to areas already expected to have been encountered through your Professional Experience.
As such, whilst the unit focus is on PCs 3, 4 & 5, some aspects of PCs 1 & 2 (relating to the professional role of the Architect) will also be outlined in lectures and included in assessment.
The following topics are considered as core content within the unit lecture series:
PC3 Legal framework and processes
The relevant UK legal systems, civil liabilities and the laws of contract and tort (delict)*
Planning and Conservation Acts, guidance and processes
Building regulations, approved documents and standards, guidance and processes
Land law, property law and rights of other proprietors
Terms within construction contracts implied by statute
Health and safety legislation and regulations
Statutory undertakers and authorities, their requirements and processes
8.
Environmental and sustainability legislation
9.
Historic buildings legislation
10.
Accessibility and inclusion legislation
* Scotland
PC4 Practice and management
The roles of architectural practice in the construction industry
External factors affecting construction and practice at national and international levels
Practice structures, legal status and business styles
Personnel management and employment related legislation
Practice finance, business planning, funding and taxation
Marketing, fee calculation, bidding and negotiation
Resource management and job costing
Administration, quality management, QA systems, recording and review
Staff development, motivation, supervision and planning
Team working and leadership
PC5 Building procurement
Procurement methods, including for public and larger projects and relevant legislation
The effect of different procurement processes on programme, cost, risk and quality
Collaboration in construction and provisions for team working
Tendering methods, codes, procedures and project planning
Forms of contract and sub-contract, design responsibility and third party rights
Application and use of contract documentation;
Roles of design/construction team members and their interaction;
Duties and powers of a lead consultant and contract administrator;
Site processes, quality monitoring, progress recording, payment and completion;
Claims, litigation and alternative dispute resolution methods.
Professional Development and Reflection
The Professional Development and Reflection unit focuses upon the elements of the curriculum set out by the ARB/RIBA, within the Professional Competencies (PC) 1 and 2.
The teaching provided will augment and develop best practice approaches to areas already expected to be known and documented through your Professional Experience.
As such, whilst the unit focus is on PCs 1 & 2, some aspects of PCs 3, 4 & 5 (previously taught in CARC 7201) will be revisited in lectures and included in assessment.
PC1 Professionalism
Professional ethics
The architect's obligation to society and the protection of the environment
Professional regulation, conduct and discipline
Institutional membership, benefits, obligations and codes of conduct
Attributes of integrity, impartiality, reliability and courtesy
Time management, recording, planning and review
Effective communication, presentation, confirmation and recording
Flexibility, adaptability and the principles of negotiation
Autonomous working and taking responsibility within a practice context
Continuing professional development.
PC2 Clients, users, and delivery of services
Types of clients, their priorities and the management of the relationship
Briefing, organising and the programming of services appropriate to appointment
Architects’ contracts, terms of engagement, scope of services and relevant legislation
Obligations to stakeholders, warranties and third party rights
Communication, progress reporting and the provision of appropriate and timely advice
Budget and financial awareness and cost monitoring or control
Responsibility for coordination and integration of design team input
Invoicing, payment of fees and financial management
Intellectual property rights and copyright law
Duty of care, professional liability, negligence and professional indemnity including insurance.
PG Cert Professional Practice Architecture
This qualification is the final stage in training to become an architect and will leave graduates with the skills and competencies needed to become a professional architect.
Graduates might go on to work in roles that include:
Applicants should have a RIBA/ARB Part 1 and Part 2 in architecture or equivalent.
If your first language is not English a certificate is required as evidence that you have an average IELTS score of 6.0 or equivalent.
You may be offered a place on a course on the condition that you improve your English language and study skills.
We offer pre-sessional English language courses which can improve your IELTS score by a maximum of 1.0 and 0.5, or equivalent.
Please Note:
Upon reaching the Part 3 oral examination, applicants should have recently completed a minimum of 24 months' practical experience under the direct supervision of a professional working in the construction industry.
This should include at least 12 months working in the EEA, Channel Islands or the Isle of Man, under the direct supervision of an architect.
To gain access the ARB register one must obtain ARB/RIBA Part 1, Part 2 and Part 3.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/facilities-resources/design-studio-modelling-workshop:
These adaptive facilities are used mostly by architecture, design and product design students for projects, group workshops, design and modelling.
The Design Studio and Modelling Workshop are two separate but connected spaces, offering an interactive learning experiences.
The Design Studio has a flexible teaching and training layout.
You’ll find round tables, adjustable chairs and retractable room dividing screens.
The Modelling Workshop is used extensively for model building and poster design, fostering a creative space with professional-grade tools for detailed and innovative design work.
Room: G1.03
Room: G1.04
Our online graduate showcase includes projects created within the studios.
If you are a local business and would like to hire one of our facilities please contact innovation@uca.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/facilities-resources/traklab:
Funded by Research England, the TrakLab is based at the UCA Canterbury campus within the School of Architecture.
Through seamless integration of technology and design, The TrakLab inspires, educates, and leads in the architectural and digital realms, crafting the future of our interconnected disciplines.
You’ll discover facilities and equipment in digital recording, fabrication, 3D scanning, movement tracking, and immersive AR and VR experiences.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/blogs/exploring-the-uca-2025-online-graduate-showcase:
This month saw the launch of the 2025 Gradshows, a celebration of creativity that sees all three UCA campuses transformed by exhibitions of work by final year students.
17 June 2025
Alongside this, we also launched our online Gradshow website with work submitted by the graduating students.
All students have had the opportunity to upload their work, and we have had submissions from a wide range of courses: Games Design to Ceramics, Architecture to Fashion, here’s just a few stories from our online showcase.
Good Morning, Good Night, by Illustration BA (Hons) student Wei Qi Tan, is a concertina book that confronts the realities of old age
It showcases the daily lives of elderly Singaporeans and explores themes of life and death, the quiet disappearance of elderly people and their traditions.
View Wei’s showcase
As part of his research on Porto, Architecture BA (Hons) student Aman Kumar, noted that significant light pollution severely limited the visibility of stars in the night sky.
With this in mind, Aman decided to explore creating an astronomy museum that would open the skies up to stargazers, students, astrophotographers and more.
The building includes multiple dark rooms, each serving a unique purpose within the museum, along with a luna garden and south-facing bright spaces that make use of the daylight sun.
View Aman’s showcase
Michelle Stannard pulled from her personal experiences when developing her Product & Furniture Design BA (Hons) final project.
MotionMATE is an independence-restoring product for powerchair users that allows them to reach for their bag without the need for assistance.
The bag and rail prototypes have been developed with sustainability in mind, with the bags being crafted from recycled backpacks.
View Michelle’s showcase
Echoes of Edo is a Fashion Design BA (Hons) project by Veslie Smith that explores their identity and cultural heritage of Edo State, Nigeria.
Veslie developed a unique print inspired by Ivie, highly-symbolic coral beads traditionally worn by Edo people, that captured the elegance, pride and cultural significance of Edo attire.
View Veslie’s showcase
To view more student work and learn about the processes they went through, make sure to visit the UCA Online Graduate Showcase and explore the hard work produced by our community of creatives.
Inspired to begin creating?
Take a look through our full range of undergraduate and postgraduate degrees .
Or book on to an upcoming Open Day to explore our campuses and speak to academics and current students.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2025/students-awarded-venice-fellowship:
Two students from the University for the Creative Arts (UCA) have been selected for the British Council’s Venice Biennale Fellowships programme, getting to spend a month at this year’s Venice Biennale – one of the world’s most anticipated events in the arts calendar.
15 April 2025
Engaging with the theme of this year’s British Pavilion exhibition, GBR – Geology of British Repair , Pati Starzykowski, studying for his PhD, and Lizzie Grinter, studying BA (Hons) Architecture, will join forty-four other fellows representing the UK and Kenya as part of this year’s unique UK-Kenya collaboration.
As exhibition ambassadors, the fellows are tasked with creating moments of intercultural dialogue and connection that examine the relationship between architecture and colonisation as parallel, interconnected systems – making a case for architecture as an earth practice.
Pati, an artist and researcher working at the intersection of art, science, ecology and politics, will be mapping the presence of ruderal plants – often weeds that colonise waste ground and emerge in times of disturbance – in Venice’s plazas and courtyards.
“ Venice has been shaped as a place of refuge and a centre of colonial power and trade.
Ruderal plants are framed as weeds, invaders, remnants of neglect, yet they persist, forming unexpected ecologies of resistance and renewal,” Pati explained.
“Their spread is entangled with colonial histories, economic shifts, and human movement, making them both testimony and agent of change and in this project, I will research these entanglements.”
Inspired by the exuberance and resilience of ruderal plants, Pati also hopes to test the regenerative nature of certain plant roots or rhizomes found in the local lagoon, to determine whether they could establish a barrier to prevent seasonal flooding.
As an outcome of the project, Pati intends to produce a 'map of intensities' and to reproduce local pavement tiles made with local materials to trace the historicity of these ruderal plants and their role in remediation and repair.
Lizzie, a third-year student, plans to use the opportunity to focus on the reuse and repair of unwanted textiles.
She plans to collaboratively craft a decorative and insulating tapestry using upcycled waste textiles at a pop-up workshop during the Biennale, bringing together people from different cultures, backgrounds, and generations.
She explained: “Visitors to the Biennale can take a moment to create something together for a kinder circular economy, allowing them to reflect upon the value of handmade techniques, while also learning about the damaging environmental impact of the fashion industry.
“The final tapestry will be a prototype of ‘beautiful’ insulation that could be used for temporary accommodation for refugees, homeless people, or to retrofit old buildings.”
Having learnt how to crochet during lockdown, Lizzie developed this concept for ‘woven walls’ by combining her new passion with her architectural studies.
Her hypothetical business was named Studio Stitch and it’s from here that her insulating tapestry idea for the Biennale began.
Her project is also a comment on colonialism, specifically the history of crafts and textiles, whereby the traditional hand-crafted art form was devalued by populations exploited for their crafts.
Lizzie hopes her practice can revive and shine a light on traditional craft and decorative techniques from around the world, and through her workshops, connect strangers from around the globe through co-creation.
UCA’s Professor of Architecture, Cat Rossi, oversaw the student applications and led UCA’s successful bid to become one of the British Council’s twenty-four UK and Kenyan partners.
Follow Pati @mother_matter and Lizzie @lizziegrinter and @BritishArts
Learn more about the Venice Fellowships 2025
#BritishPavilion #VeniceFellowshipsProgramme #VeniceFellowships

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/blogs/rising-star-accolade-for-hamzas-innovative-work:
UCA architecture graduate Hamza Shaikh is making waves.
Not only in his chosen industry, but also in the worlds of social media and AI.
Last year he was named a Rising Star by the RIBA Journal for his work combining these disciplines.
10 April 2024
Hamza graduated from UCA in 2017, has not long completed the final part of his architecture qualifications, and works at one of the world’s largest architects, Gensler.
Before that, he also set up a t-shirt brand, Two Worlds Design, before beginning to use the brand’s platform to start talking about architecture across a blog-style Instagram account – which now has 35,000 followers – a YouTube channel, and a podcast, all of which seek to demystify architecture
“Once I realised I could do this through my actual university work itself, using the media expressions as a means to think out loud and share ideas, I began building a large social media following,” he says.
“Because of the complexity of the discipline - the wide-ranging concepts, philosophies, sciences and perspectives within the field - I began documenting my learning experiences through YouTube videos, and later through a podcast series.
At times I found this was a process of learning through teaching, and I found myself becoming a source of support for other students progressing through their architecture journeys.”
As well as branching out into social media spaces, Hamza is exploring the role that AI will play in his work as an architect.
He says he never expected to get involved in AI, but his love for challenging himself, alongside his fears, have led to him pursuing it as an additional interest.
“The focus of my work with AI is on understanding experimental drawing methods and exploring wide-ranging forms of creative expression,” he says.
“Generative AI has immense implications for the creative process, particularly in architecture, where analogue and digital tools of expression are always in a competitive dance.
“Exploring that threshold of competing forces, filled with discovery and new insights, is where I am most satisfied - finding harmony within the storm.
That’s what 'Two Worlds' is about.
“Now that I work at Gensler, I feel privileged to explore this challenge alongside world- leading practitioners, machine learning experts, computational designers, artists and design technology leaders; I get to bring my expertise in hybrid creative processes to the mix.
“This also shines light on the future of AI adoption: finding solutions that allow us to work in harmonious collaboration with AI, using it as a tool that facilitates and prioritises human agency.
This is easier said than done, given the nature of some tech-oriented people, who are driven to blindly push all boundaries of innovation.
However, this is what makes my place of work so exciting - we have a beautiful balance of tech-oriented and craft-oriented professionals, working together to create the best of blends.
“Ultimately, the challenge we have in the architecture industry is no different to other fields when it comes to AI adoption.
Simply put, we must find and create systems of semi-automation as alternatives to full automation.
I do believe it will be challenging to develop semi-automation at the same rate that full automation is developing, but this is where policy, legislation and governance needs to come into immediate effect.”
Hamza is now working to create new workflows and processes that use a hybrid approach to design and its communication – making the most of AI, but retaining the human touch.
“Undoubtedly, this idea of 'hybridising' creative mediums stemmed from my time at UCA,” he says.
Within the field of architecture, Hamza’s design passion is the reinvention or redesign of sacred spaces, like churches, to bring people together.
“I am fascinated by the Abrahamic tradition – the idea that fundamental commonalities of major religious beliefs are unquestionable.
I dream of a day when, in the West (as I am a westerner), we discover this common identity,” he says.
“From an architectural standpoint, this new but ageless sacred identity (or lack thereof) has fascinating design/experience/cultural/philosophical implications.
This will be my lifelong personal pursuit and dream, my purpose; to bring people together in harmonious peace, or to at least create spaces, moments and opportunities for it."
But with the constant and rapid advances in AI, Hamza expects much of his work to be focused in this area in future.
“Many incredible people are working hard to innovate our way through this.
I hope to be part of this endeavour for as long as it takes to see the outcome.”
Hamza says he has always had a creative disposition, but was often discouraged by teachers at school, who felt his interests wouldn’t lead anywhere.
He found a warmer welcome at UCA.
“I loved UCA: the creative environment allowed me to discover that being an architect was more than just designing buildings,” he says.
“I progressed onto my BA degree through the Art & Design Foundation course, where I explored all creative mediums, interfaces and expressions - from fine art to crafting to lens-based media.
“I took this unrestricted attitude into my architecture studies and quickly learned that this, too, is an incredibly flexible discipline that allows for multidisciplinary influence and cross-creative expression.
“When it came to the intellectual pursuit of architecture, being around so many extraordinary professors and tutors inspired me.
Then, seeing the rapidly evolving technological tools required for practice showed me that there is a place for anyone in architecture, but mostly for those who are constantly curious.
“For the first time in my life, after all my struggles to remain focussed in my school years, I found a place to be obsessively curious and creative.”
His advice to current and future students?
“Find or remember what you love, and explore how it can have a positive impact.
Ask questions to exceptional people so you gain mentors, who can understand what areas you can improve for your pursuits.
Take criticism with grace, knowing when there might be positive insights to be gained about your development to apply it immediately.”
Visit our architecture course pages to find out more about what you can achieve at UCA.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2024/new-artwork-installation-begins-in-kings-hill:
A cultural partnership between the University for the Creative Arts (UCA), Turner Contemporary, Liberty Property Trust, and Kent County Council (KCC) culminates in the installation of a major new piece of public art in Kings Hill, near West Malling in Kent.
31 January 2024
Named ‘Slices of Peace’ , the artwork consists of a giant multicoloured apple, flanked by two smaller apples – made from laser cut, powder coated steel – and was commissioned by the partners to British-Nigerian multi-disciplinary artist and designer Yinka Ilori, MBE, who was appointed as Artist in Residence in Kings Hill in 2021.
The larger apple is more than 5m in diameter to accommodate people inside it, and the smaller apples are 700mm in diameter.
A soundscape by artist Peter Adjaye, which was the outcome of choral workshops attended by the community, will be inside the giant apple
The artwork is being installed in Orchard Park, Kings Hill’s new public park, and will serve as a meeting point for the community.
Yinka Ilori, Kings Hill Artist in Residence
“Bringing people and communities together is something I am passionate about and aspire to do through all of my work, which is why I am excited to bring ‘Slices of Peace’ to Kings Hill,” said Yinka Ilori.
“This installation is inspired by the rich culture and heritage of Kent, in particular its history of apple growing.
Community is at the heart of this installation, and I hope it brings a ‘slice of peace’ to those visiting, offering them a place to wander, reflect, and meditate within the park.”
A collective of students and alumni from UCA, AtelierUCA , supported the development and delivery of Yinka Ilori’s commission.
This involved them in a variety of tasks, which included curation of the accompanying exhibition, assisting with the community workshops, working with Yinka to produce a site model in his studio, and the design of the corresponding publication.
The exhibition we feature key artefacts and outputs that represent some of the project and its development.
These include the community textile from the stitching workshop, a timeline of key photographs and drawings from across the project, and an interview with Yinka Ilori himself.
Daniel Tollady, Stage One Convenor at UCA Canterbury, said: "Slices of Peace gave UCA’s students and alumni an opportunity to explore new ideas and learn new skills for supporting their studies, future practices, and their eventual careers.
It’s also given them a rich experience that will have a lasting impact on their professional careers."
The Control Tower Gallery, Kings Hill.
Caroline Binns of Kings Hill developer Liberty Property Trust said: “Public art has always been a vital part of our placemaking in Kings Hill.
Over the years we have commissioned numerous sculptures for prominent sites to encourage pride and attachment to the area.
As the village nears completion, ‘Slices of Peace’ will be the final significant public art commission to be installed in Kings Hill, providing a lasting legacy for the community.”
The finished work and the accompanying exhibition and publication, which are both being produced by UCA, will launch this Spring 2024.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2023/arch-grads-help-create-eco-gingerbread-city:
This Christmas, architecture graduates from the University for the Creative Arts (UCA) have been part of an industry-wide project to bring attention to climate change using the sweet-smelling, festive confectionery, gingerbread.
15 December 2023
Rising Residences.
Photo by Luke O'Donovan for The Gingerbread City 2023
The Gingerbread City at Westfield White City in London , has been curated by the Museum of Architecture to champion sustainable design ideas , and this year’s theme is Water in Cities .
Leading architecture practices, including Foster + Partners and Hopkins Architects, created designs across four separate zones: Urban Floodplain, Canal City, Frozen Landscape, and Underwater + Floating City.
Photo by Luke O'Donovan for The Gingerbread City 2023
2022 graduates Elena Gruber and Mila Mielau, who work for [Y/N] Studio – founded by fellow UCA alumni Alex Smith – designed Rising Residences , two gingerbread houses on candy cane stilts to respond to rising sea levels.
One residence is in water, and the other is on a flooding island.
Watch the making of 'Rising Residences' video .
By Elena Gruber and Mila Mielau © [Y/N] Studio
Inspiration came from a real-life project, [Y/N] Studio’s real-life project, ‘House on Stilts,’ and Elena’s UCA folly about societies’ attitudes towards climate change.
“ Rising Residences are future-proof houses in a changing climate,” Elena explained.
“Stepping up to escape rising sea levels on a constant journey of treating symptoms of global warming rather than the causes, portraying humanity's handling of this threat.
“Creating the structure out of gingerbread and sweets embodies this approach, attempting to make something fun and easy whilst the problem is so severe that it must be addressed at its root.
Flooding is a threat that we as architects must now consider when designing for the structures of tomorrow.
“ Gingerbread is a good choice for building structures, given its strength.
When combined with an architect’s exceptional model-making skill it was “quite easy to assemble,” said Elena.
Having chosen to study at UCA because it allowed to challenge herself creatively – the vital foundation for launching her career – she gave this advice to next year’s graduates.
“Continuously challenge yourselves in your creativity and design yet remain focused on the realities that come with the profession.
Students should stay educated in current problems, such as the environment or the economy and see them as a challenge they want to tackle.”
The Gingerbread City closes on 7 January 2024.
‘Rising Residences’, Gingerbread City.
© Elena Gruber and Mila Mielau,  [Y/N] Studio.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2023/uca-past-present-top-architecture-awards-2023:
Alumni and staff from University for the Creative Arts (UCA) School of Architecture and Design have been recognised at the annual Architects’ Journal (AJ) AJ Architecture Awards.
04 December 2023
Celebrating the very best in architecture across the UK, AJ revealed the winners in 20 of its categories ranging from Civic to Workplace, Culture to Refurb and Housing to Leisure, at a ceremony in London.
Amrit Seera, who graduated in BA (Hons) Architecture in 2014, works as a senior architect at Curl la Tourelle Head Architecture, which won the School Project award for its Alfreton Park Community SEN School.
“The judges thought this an extraordinary project with ‘a real calmness about the place’, derived from strong, simple architectural ideas, executed with confidence and sensitivity,” said AJ, in an article covering the awards.
Former M.ARCH design and technology tutor Dave Lomax, an associate director at Waugh Thistleton Architects, picked up awards on behalf of his team, who won both the Workplace Project and the Architect of the Year awards.
Dave said via his LinkedIn profile: “We're grateful for all the recognition our work has received over the years, but it's especially great to feel we have the respect and support of our peers in the architectural community as we attempt to challenge the principles of what it means to build sustainably.
Without the opportunity to have our voices heard by other architects, our agency is greatly reduced.”
Architecture tutor Alex Smith, who is also founding director of [Y/N] Studio, received a highly commended recognition for his team’s 2022 project, Bradbury Works – an extension and refurbishment of the Bradbury Street Workspaces in Hackney.
Maegan Icke, a fellow architect at the studio, also teaches at UCA’s School of Architecture and Design having graduated from the BA (Hons) Architecture course in 2014.
[Y/N] Studio, Bradbury Works.
Photo by French and Tye
AJ stated: “This refurbishment and extension of a Victorian building as affordable workspaces was commended by judges as intelligent retrofit on a budget.”
Every shortlisted building in each category was visited by a panel of expert judges, who included Eleanor Fawcett of Old Oak and Park Royal Development Corporation, Sahiba Chadha of Cullinan Studio and engineer Webb Yates co-founder Steve Webb.
The projects were assessed against a range of criteria, which included design quality, user experience, civic contribution, sustainability and performance among others to decide upon the winners.
The winners were announced at a special gala event at the Hilton Metropole hosted by comedian Simon Evans.
To read about the winners in full, visit the Architects’ Journal website.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2023/uca-staff-students-exhibit-at-summer-exhibition:
Master of Architecture student Diya Seepaul, BA Architecture Stage 2 convener Kristina Kotov, and M.Arch convener Gabor Stark from the University for the Creative Arts (UCA) in Canterbury have been selected for this year's Summer Exhibition at the Royal Academy, London.
07 June 2023
The annual exhibition, running without interruption since 1769, features work by leading artists, Royal Academicians, and household names as well as new and emerging talent.
Anyone can submit their work and, if their work is selected by the RA’s panel of artists, it goes on display in the Main Galleries.
This year, the Architecture Room is curated by architect Peter Barber RA, and focuses on the role of making and the hand-made in the design process.
Following the two-stage submission and selection process, Diya will show ‘The Anthropocentric Sublime’, her proposal of an architectural pinhole camera that records the ecological transformations in the Chernobyl Exclusion Zone in Ukraine.
Diya built the 1:50 model for her design project in the SYN City 51º N | Architecture Climate Action studio in her first year on her Master of Architecture course.
Kristina and Gabor exhibit their collaborative sculpture ‘Taking the Barn for a Walk’.
Carved out of a timber purlin from a vernacular farm building at Kristina’s LT Ranch Space in Lithuania, three barn-shaped houses on iron nail legs precariously balance on a worm-eaten timber log.
The Summer Exhibition 2023 opens on Monday, 12 June and runs until 20 August 2023.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/blogs/a-day-in-the-life-at-calvin-klein:
Second year Fashion Management & Marketing student Eve Jappy is settling into her new life in Amsterdam whilst on her work placement.
28 March 2019
My alarm goes off and I jump in the shower, getting myself ready for a full day in the office at Calvin Klein.
The first thing I had to get used to in Amsterdam was that everyone cycles around the city rather than drives.
So, of course I got myself a bike and now I feel like I fit in with the locals.
I hop on my bike and cycle the short trip to the European Headquarters, grabbing a smoothie from my favourite local coffee shop on my way.
I arrive at work and head straight up to the sixth floor to the Calvin Klein Creative Hub.
I work here with the visual merchandising team, alongside the creative services, store design and architecture teams.
I settle in and my manager sets me my tasks for the day.
We have a team meeting between the visual merchandisers and store design.
I’ve been tasked with creating guidelines for all the different European market stores, so it’s important I listen up and make sure I’ve got everything covered.
Lunchtime!
We’re spoiled for choice here at Calvin Klein HQ.
With 400 employees situated across three different buildings and twelve floors, there’s a lot of mouths to feed.
The office is more like a ‘campus’, with a restaurant, a deli, several cafés and a gym on site.
There’s even a meditation room where you can go to unwind during your downtime.
Today, I grab a quick lunch from one of the cafés, as we’ve got a busy afternoon ahead.
This afternoon I’ve been assisting on a photoshoot for some of the new women’s lingerie range.
This has been a great experience for me, working alongside photographers, stylists and the shoot manager to ensure everything runs as smoothly and efficiently as possible.
It’s the end of the working day, and I’m just getting ready for the cycle back to my apartment where I’m staying.
I’m heading out for dinner this evening with some girls from work.
We head out to a beautiful restaurant called MaMa Kelly.
The interior design is gorgeously girly, full of pink and gold furniture.
We order some delicious food and even had a Pink Pornstar-Martini to celebrate the end of a really productive day.
It’s finally time for bed before another busy day in the office tomorrow.
Thanks for reading!
– Eve Jappy

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ba-creative-industries-management-fashion:
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our BA (Hons) Creative Industries Management in Fashion (top-up)  degree:
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Creative Industries Management in Fashion (top-up)  students may be interested in.
You choose one unit from Fashion: Global Industry & Futures or Lifestyle Goods: Global Industry & Futures
You choose one unit from Data Mining for Marketers or Predictive Analytics for Business.
Data Mining for Marketers (elective unit) Data Mining focuses on the use of automation to uncover relationships within datasets that can be used to support improved decision processes.
When employed in marketing, data mining will use customer, potential customer, supplier, and population data to reveal patterns in the data that have potential to improve the marketing process and outcomes.
You’ll be introduced to the processes of data mining using various tools including descriptive statistics, including SPSS and R.
Year one (equivalent in level to year 3)
Graduates of this top-up course can expect to leave with an extensive knowledge of the fashion industry that can see them go on to work in the fashion industry under many different roles.
We offer postgraduate opportunities in our Business School and we will help you find the correct course for you and support you in your application should further study be for you.
Find out more about Business & Management courses at UCA
Programme Director of Fashion & Luxury Business & Management
Senior Lecturer in Fashion Management & Marketing
Lecturer in Creative Business Management
Senior Lecturer in Luxury Management
Lecturer in Business and Marketing
Lecturer in Sustainable Business
Lecturer in Behavioural Economics
Lecturer in Fashion Business & Management
Senior Lecturer in Fashion Trends & Sustainability
Senior Lecturer in Fashion History and Theory
Senior Lecturer in Fashion & Luxury Business & Management
Senior Lecturer in Consumer Behaviour
Don't meet the international entry requirements or English language requirements?
You may be able to enter the course through the following entry pathways:

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ba-fashion-business-management:
Become a fashion industry expert with the tools to thrive commercially
Expand your knowledge with exciting elective units
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our BA (Hons) Fashion Business & Management degree:
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Fashion Business & Management students may be interested in.
This course has dual accreditation with The Chartered Management Institute, you will earn a nationally recognised professional qualification during your degree course.
Critical Perspectives on Fashion Business Fashion is a complex worldwide system of businesses that makes many trillions of pounds and employs billions of people, but it was not always this way.
Critical Perspectives on Fashion Business introduces you to historical and cultural changes around the world that helped shape the development of current fashion businesses.
The unit examines social, political, and cultural structures such as gender, race, and class, and encourages you to evaluate how these factors impact fashion businesses.
Fashion Business: Digital Skills, Practices and Futures This unit explores the fundamental digital skills required within contemporary fashion businesses.
You will demonstrate your knowledge of digital practices and evaluate approaches to solving problems, while also demonstrating your creative and business digital skills.
This unit will be the basis of all future digital study and will be the beginning of your understanding of professional digital tools and software used in fashion businesses.
Professional Business Communication and Networks You will explore the theoretical underpinnings and practical aspects of communicating and networking effectively across different professional settings, while also considering the ethical dimensions of these practices.
You will develop a robust set of competencies, insights, and informed perspectives critical for thriving in professional contexts.
Fashion Business Strategy: Buying and Merchandising This interdisciplinary unit explores the core concepts, methodologies, and principles that drive fashion enterprises.
You will hone your foundational understanding of fashion business strategy and acquire practical skills in digital buying and merchandising, all while embracing principles of global sustainability and ethics.
Fashion Forecasting and Consumer Trends This unit is designed to immerse you into the complexities of fashion forecasting and the analysis of consumer trends, aiming to equip you with a sophisticated understanding of the mechanisms driving consumer behaviour and the ability to anticipate future trends in the fashion industry.
Sustainability and Ethics in Fashion Business Develop a nuanced understanding of how sustainability and ethical considerations shape business strategies, influence consumer behaviour, and impact global supply chains in this unit, through a blend of theoretical knowledge and practical insights.
Fashion Business Strategy: Omnichannel Brand Marketing and Experiential Retail In fashion, brand marketing is crucial as it helps build emotional connections and memorable experiences with customers.
As a future fashion business professional, you will need various strategies like omnichannel marketing (combining online and offline sales) and experiential retail (creating engaging shopping experiences) to create strong brand stories.
The unit aims to develop applied understanding of how customer experiences should be created and managed to positively impact on an organisation's success, exploring brand marketing in fashion and differing marketing methods.
Fashion Business: Marketing Analytics and Data Technology You will explore, in-depth, this area of fashion business, emphasising the evolution of marketing analytics, the importance of data analysis, and the integration of AI-driven reporting tools.
It provides you with comprehensive skills in interpreting, managing, and leveraging data to foster innovation, competitive advantage, and alignment with customer trends and preferences.
Narrative Economics and Storytelling in Business With an innovative approach to blending economic theory with the art of storytelling, this unit is designed to equip you with the understanding of how narrative economics influences market dynamics and decision-making within the realm of creative industries, such as film, fashion, music, publishing, and digital media.
Sustainable Accounting and Finance for Fashion Business You will build on your financial management knowledge, emphasising real-world applications and sustainability, covering  budgeting, financial planning, and innovative finance tools, all within the context of fashion.
Consumer Insight and Behaviour in Fashion To thrive in the competitive fashion industry, businesses need a deep understanding of their consumers' behaviour, values, and attitudes.
This unit explores consumer motivation and decision-making processes specific to the fashion sector, and how these can be influenced by both internal and environmental factors.
Sustainable Fashion Startup This unit equips you with the knowledge and skills needed to innovate within the rapidly evolving landscape of sustainable fashion, preparing you to address pressing global challenges while creating successful and socially conscious businesses.
This unit requires you to develop different elements of a sustainable fashion start-up each week.
You will carry out relevant market research to help you identify opportunities in the fashion industry and your target market and develop a prototype of a new product or service using a range of tools.
Finally, you will apply your knowledge and research to create a compelling business pitch for potential investors and funders.
While on the Professional Practice Year, you will be required to pay a reduced tuition fee for that year.
Fashion Business Strategy: Sustainable Business Design You will explore the intersection of sustainable practices and innovative business design in the fashion industry, so that you can develop, implement, and manage business strategies that are not only economically viable but also centred on sustainability and customer desirability.
You will work in a team with other students to plan and execute a project from start to finish, simulating real fashion business scenarios.
This collaborative work is supplemented with structured peer feedback, encouraging reflective learning and critical thinking.
Entrepreneurial Finance and Financial Modelling for Fashion Business You’ll be introduced to the critical aspects of entrepreneurial finance and financial modelling within the fashion industry.
You will develop the ability to build and defend robust business models in the fashion sector, employing both traditional financial management principles and modern tools, including AI, for financial analysis.
Fashion Business: Project Management The ability to manage projects efficiently is a high-value skill indispensable for all managers.
This unit equips you with the essential knowledge and skills needed to manage fashion business projects successfully, addressing common problems and challenges.
By the end, you will have an opportunity to achieve a formal Project Management qualification (Agile PM Certification
Fashion Business and Management Degree Project The culmination of your course is the final major project, designed to demonstrate your ability to apply theoretical knowledge to practical, real-world challenges in the fashion industry.
You will plan and manage a significant project, either focusing on a professional workplace setting or on academic research; in both instances, you must address a real-world business need or challenge specific to the fashion industry.
Our Fashion Business Management degree is designed to produce highly employable graduates with a sound understanding of the fashion industry.
You'll benefit from our extensive industry links and from events such as London Fashion Week.
Our industry connections include:
Our commitment to helping our students to secure employment before graduation means that our Fashion Business and Management graduates progress to careers at many leading companies, such as:
Recent graduate roles have included:
We offer postgraduate fashion business degrees and we will help you find the correct course for you and support you in your application should further study be for you.
Our Fashion Business and Management degree doesn't require a portfolio, but a s part of our accreditation from CMI we will send you a short questionnaire to complete after you have applied, so please look out for this .
If you receive an offer, you’ll be invited to attend an Applicant Day where you can meet the course team and learn more about the course.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ba-music-business-management:
Gain the skills to thrive in this exciting global sector
Learn artist management to live music, marketing and e-commerce
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our BA (Hons) Music Business & Management degree:
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Music Business & Management students may be interested in.
Principles of Live Events You’ll be introduced to the fundamental principles of designing, funding, delivering, and evaluating successful events, from conception to the post-event review.
You’ll explore, analyse and critique the theory, working practices, and funding models of cultural live events of various scales, with a particular focus on concerts and music festivals.
Finally, you will create and manage a group-run live event, presenting your group project and reflecting on the different components of the event.
Introduction to the Music industry You’ll be introduced to what are commonly regarded as the three pillars of the music industry - live performance, recording, and publishing.
You’ll explore the wide network of businesses within the music industry, from small entities such as music creators, DJs, and performers, to large corporations such as Live Nation and Universal, and major technology and media companies such as Spotify, TikTok and YouTube, and how they interrelate.
Music Publishing and Synchronisation In this unit, you will gain a critical understanding of music publishing as well as synchronisation and its expanded role in the music industry.
You’ll explore how music, copyright and performing rights societies have developed over time, and how music and moving image have worked in synergy to fuel the growth of the music industry.
Additionally, you will gain an understanding of the diverse royalty deals and income streams, and how they combine to create incomes for artists, publishers and labels.
Industry Brief Project: Contractual Agreements and Negotiation Through interactive exercises and case studies, you’ll learn the fundamental principles of contractual agreements, and the important techniques required for successful negotiation.
Recordings and Distribution You’ll gain critical understanding of the principles underpinning the recording industry.
The pivotal roles played by record labels, distributors, and digital platforms will be the main focus, but you’ll also critically examine the marketability of artists and the evolving A&R process.
Principles of Content Creation This unit takes a strategic approach to understanding why, where, and how to deliver brand concepts and content.
These outcomes will be achieved through the creation of appropriate and industry proﬁcient deliverables, combining strategy, vision, concept, and idea making.
Artist Management and Development You’ll learn about artist management practices and deepen your understanding of how different stakeholders collaborate to build up artists’ careers in this unit.
You’ll also be introduced to concepts from branding, semiotics, creativity, and communication, to produce original work.
By analysing case studies involving artist managers, producers, artists, and entrepreneurs, you can explore the practical application of brand theories, focusing on enhancing value and boosting audience and fan interaction.
Creative business brief: Releasing Music This unit will give you the knowledge and skills required to carry out an Artist Direct / do-it-yourself (DIY) record release and, by the end of the unit, you will have created a record release strategy, ready for application in the real world.
While you study the Professional Practice Year, you will be required to pay a reduced tuition fee for that year.
You’ll spend two years learning with us, before putting what you’ve learned into practice through a year-long industry placement.
Our Professional Practice placements give you the opportunity to develop your professional, academic and personal potential, equipping you to be confident and engaged in creative workplaces.
These qualities are widely recognised by employers and a significant proportion of placement students nationally are offered graduate-level jobs or go onto postgraduate study.
Throughout your placement, your course team will support you, making use of our extensive industry connections to help facilitate you to find about the right placement for you.
On conclusion of the placement, you’ll return to complete your final year of study – applying what you’ve learned on the job.
Emerging Trends and Technology in the Music Industry The music industry’s emerging trends and technological advancements shaping its evolution are covered in this unit.
You’ll analyse the impact of these developments on various parts of the music industry, including production, distribution, marketing, and consumption.
Artist x Brand Collaborations This unit explores the relationship between artists and brands and how the two can work together to provide mutual benefits.
You will gain a critical understanding of the power of combining music with brands and explore issues around authenticity and integrity and analyse how well-conceived strategic alliances can exploit commercial opportunities.
Studio space for tutorials, workshops, group and independent working with course recording area with booth for radio and podcast podcast production.
Campus digital media suites with Macs and PCs programmed with the latest design software and fully-equipped photographic studios with lighting rigs, green screen lighting and set up.
Graduates of this course can expect to leave with the necessary skills to thrive in various sectors of such a fast-paced and diverse create space in various roles.
We offer postgraduate opportunities and we will help you find the correct course for you and support you in your application should further study be for you.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ma-design-innovation-brand-management:
An exciting opportunity to develop your professional skills and managerial capabilities, our MA Design Innovation & Brand Management course gives you the opportunity to study a combined curriculum that will significantly enhance your skillset, preparing you to become a leading brand, design and innovation manager.
Our course encourages you to consider the value of branding in today's competitive global environment, where organisations continue to compete in overcrowded markets.
As consumers become more sophisticated and the plethora of products more similar, the need to differentiate through emotional attachment has become increasingly important, and this is where the course steps in to help future leaders develop one-of-a-kind products and fresh campaign strategies.
The key to successful brand development is an understanding of its relationship with innovation.
The popular view has been that branding is connected with logos, advertising and manipulation, whilst innovation is to do with more process-orientated development.
UCA has developed this MA course to address all aspects of product design, brand management and the innovation factors that are the foundation for its success.
We will cover each key component and teach students how to run these successfully, whilst addressing their own professional and personal development as leaders along the way.
For us, branding is about delivering a rewarding experience to customers, while innovation is about an organisational effort aimed at differentiating a company through original value creation.
In other words, each is inextricably linked yet individually defined.
As a student on this course, you'll benefit from working alongside students on the other postgraduate courses at UCA Epsom to better understand the range of products available in today’s market, their similarities, strengths and weaknesses, and above all to develop and deliver customer-centric products and experiences.
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our MA Design Innovation & Brand Management degree:
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Design Innovation & Brand Management students may be interested in.
MA Design Innovation & Brand Management
Postgraduate Bootcamp 1: Creativity & Orientation Bootcamp 1: Creativity is designed to introduce you to the Business School for the Creative Industries ’ learning community and professional global network orientation.
Through a series of exciting and engaging fast paced workshops, tasks and peer sessions you will access resources, build relationships and develop a vision of the function of business for the creative industries.
Creative Thinking This unit introduces you to definitions and concepts of creativity.
It allows you to explore what creativity is, and reflect methods of creativity with concepts of taste, consumer need as well as user interfaces.
As a result of being exposed to various models and methods, you will become more adept in idea generation, lateral thinking and linking ideas to solve marketing related problems.
Principles of Advertising Understanding the history and evolution of advertising enables us to understand the established infrastructure of this industry and how it might develop in the future.
This unit covers the history of the industry, the anatomy of an advertising agency, understanding clients, the concepts of advertising and the role of brands, and the current issues facing the industry.
Products and Prototyping This unit will focus upon self-directed practice in which you will define and develop individual rationales and methods of working.
Research and practice will be directed towards a Literature Review and Project Proposal in which you negotiate and review your practice with your tutor.
Prototyping ideas and concepts will allow you to build, visualise, learn, and test design outcomes.
Marketing, Design and Communications If we can understand branding as strategic, we can understand marketing as the tactical force employed to achieve specific business objectives sent from the brand.
This unit is about how to understand branding in this way, so you can improve your own marketing, design and communication skills and investigate solutions to current issues within this industry sector.
Creative Industries: Global Industry & Futures Delivered in parallel with the Creative Industries: Leadership unit, you will enjoy an integrated series of guest lectures, interactive presentations, fireside chats and engaging PechaKucha sessions scheduled across 45 weeks of programming.
The focus of the series is your individual development providing rich insights applicable to your personal transformational learning journey and provides a holistic view of the global creative industries context and foresight for future trends.
Creative Industries: Leadership D elivered in parallel with Creative Industries: Global Industry and Futures , this is another integrated series following the same format .
Postgraduate Bootcamp 2: Forecasting & Predictive Analysis Through examples from empirical research, you will have an overview of main concepts, statistical models, methods, tools and underlying principles used to improve business decision-making.
You will learn fundamentals of exploratory data analysis and how to aggregate and visualize datasets.
Human-centred Innovation & Design Human -c entred design (HCD) is a creative way to solve problems.
It is a process of designing for people that begins with the people for whom you are developing ideas and ends with individual solutions to meet their needs.
You will learn how to design and develop systems by applying HCD and innovation principles and techniques through various relevant activities in planning and management to satisfy user needs and requirements in business, social and global contexts.
Global Creative Industries This unit will give you comprehensive knowledge of current theories and practices for managing business and process in a global context in the creative sectors.
There is a strong focus on contemporary business and marketing concepts enabling you to position yourself and your practice within this constantly changing and demanding landscape.
Masters Project The Masters Project is the culmination of your studies and is divided into two parts – a research proposal, and your final project.
Both parts represent an in-depth investigation and requires you to approach a real problem or opportunity in your specialist area, analyse it, and then develop a tangible strategy and implementation plan, while applying contemporary concepts and frameworks from your studied programme.
All students choose one unit from the following:
Creative Business Start-Up With the world ever-changing, the traditional rules of business no longer apply.
The drive for innovation, creativity and agility are taking precedence.
This unit explores the concept of developing creative businesses and the new paths for start-ups.
You will analyse the evolution of business structures and explore the new market opportunities and challenges arising from geo-politics, trade relations and the global pandemic.
And you will use research to scope out new concepts designed to fulfil rising market trends such as inclusivity, diversity, and cultural differences to create and capture value.
Digital Marketing Analytics This unit explores the evolution of digital marketing and technologies, theories and practice of marketing, and the digital consumer.
You will analyse trends and digital communications to innovate, explore and create digital marketing/media strategies and plans to reach various audiences from stakeholders and clients to consumers.
Postgraduate Bootcamp 3: Competitive Intelligence & Research Bootcamp 3: Competitive Intelligence Research is designed to familiarise you with the gathering and analysis of competitors, customers, distributors, technologies, and other relevant stakeholders and features in the environment for proactive decision making in the face of threats and opportunities.
Behavioural Studies and Consumption In this u nit, you will overview main behaviour theories from marketing, sociology and psychology, and their recent trends, to analyse and get acquainted with the decision-making processes of consumers, and their main factors, with a particular application to cultural and creative goods.
Trends & Forecasting Staying ahead of your customer is vital to commercial success.
In this unit, you will learn both perceptive and analytical approaches to trends research , as well as key theories.
Then, from the context of your subject discipline, you will interrogate this methodology within your area of specialism and adapt it to gather and validate insights pertinent to your industry.
Global Logistics & Supply Chain Management Global Logistics and Supply Chain Management is critical for all global organisations, whether business, government or non-profit, where connections to other organisations exist within a network of relationships.
This unit examines the processes of supply, production, and distribution that transcend organisational boundaries to make other strategic objectives possible in a globalised marketplace.
Our course greatly benefits from its location in relation to London, and from our ability to attract top industry practitioners as visiting lecturers.
You'll also have the opportunity to:
Graduates from MA Design, Innovation & Brand Management work in a variety of exciting careers such as:
Programme Director of Marketing, Brand and Communications
Senior Lecturer in MA Design, Innovation & Brand Management
"I loved life in Epsom and the environment at UCA was brilliant.
Francesca Borg
This course does not require a portfolio.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ma-fashion-business-management:
Our MA in Fashion Business and Management at UCA is a cutting-edge course designed for aspiring professionals seeking opportunities in the global fashion business sector.
Whether you are a recent graduate, an entry-level professional, transitioning between industries, or coming from a background outside business management, this course is an ideal next step.
Delivered at UCA Epsom, this degree offers a modern approach to the evolving global fashion industry.
With Chartered Management Institute accreditation, you will also work towards a prestigious professional qualification alongside your degree.
You will gain a deep understanding of the specific dynamics of fashion business, informing strategic decision-making, business models, and product development.
You will also learn to analyse complex business issues and propose innovative solutions, staying ahead of industry trends.
The course emphasises transferable skills, including ethical and sustainable business practices, aligning with the latest industry demands.
You will enhance your task planning and management skills, actively engage in your learning journey, and build a strong network for a successful career in the dynamic fashion sector.
This programme ensures you are well-prepared to navigate the contemporary fashion business landscape, leveraging the latest insights and trends in the field.
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our MA Fashion Business & Management degree:
This course has dual accreditation with The Chartered Management Institute, you will earn a nationally recognised professional qualification during your course.
Fashion Cultures and Contexts for Strategic Business Leadership By introducing you to a range of interdisciplinary theoretical ideas, this unit will develop your ability to respond to complex contemporary challenges within fashion business and management as a strategic, thoughtful, and creative fashion business leader.
You will gain an in-depth understanding of strategic leadership within the context of fashion business, exploring the complexities of the role and the theoretical perspectives, approaches, behaviours, and skills which will enhance your professional practice.
Strategic Business Perspectives In Fashion And Luxury Industries Business leaders in the fashion and luxury industries need a profound understanding of strategy for effective operation in the complex markets unique to these sectors.
This unit aims to enable you – as a current or future business leader in the fashion or luxury sector – to develop and influence an organisation's strategic direction within the fashion and luxury landscape.
You will critique the factors specific to these industries that drive strategic development, appraise tailored strategic approaches, and develop an organisational strategy to achieve a business goal.
You will also propose an approach to implement and monitor the strategy, ensuring sustained success within the fashion or luxury business context.
Fashion Innovation and Futures for Business One of fashion’s key characteristics is constant change, and in this unit, you will take an in-depth look at recent innovations and possible futures in fashion business through the lens of entrepreneurial practice.
By exploring the dynamic interplay of fashion innovation and entrepreneurial leadership, you will gain insights into the multi-dimensional issues shaping entrepreneurial practices and the future of business in the fashion sector.
Sustainable Business Design And Development In Fashion And Luxury Industries This unit integrates business design and development with sustainable business practices in the fashion and luxury industries.
You will formulate business strategies that navigate modern market complexities and adhere to sustainable development goals (SDGs).
The emphasis is on crafting practical and effective proposals for sustainable organisational strategies, highlighting the vital connection between organisational success and sustainability in the dynamic fashion and luxury landscapes.
Final Major Project Your final major project represents the culmination of your academic journey, requiring the practical application of knowledge gained throughout your programme.
It is focused on creating value for your future career at the highest strategic level.
The unit challenges you to critically analyse an area of fashion or luxury business that you are passionate about.
Graduates will be able to work at a high level within:
This course doesn't require a portfolio but a s part of our accreditation from CMI, we will send you a short questionnaire to complete after you have applied, so please look out for this .

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/msc-global-marketing-communications:
Refine your existing skills in marketing, communications, PR and advertising on our MSc Global Marketing & Communications course - then enhance them as you select the specialism of your choice.
This course, taught at UCA Epsom, will allow you to gain a deeper understanding of the sector and to explore an area of your own personal interest, giving you a springboard into your dream career.
There are eight industry specialisms to choose from - Cosmetics and Beauty, Fashion, Fine Art, Games, Global Media, Lifestyle Goods, Luxury Goods and Services, or the Music industry.
In order to develop lifelong professional skills that relate to your career aspirations, you will undertake your own exploration of creative advertising and marketing practice, investigating creative ideas and developing practical solutions to complex industry-related problems.
Develop and refine your existing skills and critical insight into the professional, theoretical and practical world of creative promotion.
Supported by teaching professionals and working alongside other practitioners, you will be able to collaborate with other Creative Business and Media postgraduate students to enrich your learning experience.
You will progress onto a final project unique to your area of interest within the creative industries.
On completion of the course, you will gain an internationally recognised qualification, giving you the potential to work at a high level within the marketing, PR and advertising industries.
Every course within our Business portfolio is taught with a global perspective, giving graduates the skill set required to pursue a creative business career anywhere in the world.
Our teaching programmes are all project-based, combining knowledge from both business and the creative industries in order to produce well-rounded, highly employable graduates with a highly-regarded qualification.
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our MSc Global Marketing & Communications degree:
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Global Marketing & Communications students may be interested in.
Global Marketing Mix In this unit you will learn how global marketing and communications connects to human evolution, technical progress, and business demands, as well as industrialisation.
Understanding the history and evolution of global marketing enables us to understand the established infrastructure of this industry and how it might develop in the future.
As the preferred channels of communication—the global marketing mix—change, the roles that are undertaken by the agency, the clients and the consumers have also evolved.
By developing research and reflective practice, there is an opportunity to not only understand but to also consider appropriate solutions to the current issues facing advertising in a professional capacity.
Brand Innovation and Futures Professionals working in global creative industries need a deep understanding of brands, branding, and how to effectively communicate brand messages across multiple touchpoints to a range of target audiences.
This unit provides a comprehensive examination of how brands work—and why.
Creative Voice The purpose of this unit is twofold: First, to support the development and refinement of your creative voice; and second, to lay the groundwork for you to connect and integrate your own creative voice into the broader context of the creative industries, particularly in terms of extant research and knowledge.
As such, this unit enables you to marry a personal journey of discovery while undertaking a focused and rigorous investigation into the purpose and process of research at postgraduate level.
Problems, Prototypes, and Products As students in the Branding & Communication cluster of programmes, it is essential to understand how to use research to identify opportunities, gaps, and specialist knowledge in areas of study; how to prototype concepts and ideas through designing, making, testing, and analysing results; clearly articulate new ideas and justifications regarding concepts and insights related to discipline-related areas.
This unit aims to provide you with a development framework that will facilitate progression towards the Major Project.
Final Major Project The culmination of your studies, the Final Major Project is the opportunity to conceptualise and carry out a project that relates directly to your career ambitions and that will facilitate your path into a career in or related to your course content in the creative industries.
It will take the form of a Research Project Proposal (20% of your final mark) and the Final Project (80%)
This unit is self-directed, although you will be supported through taught research methods classes, support workshops and through supervision meetings.
MSc course
Please see the Additional Course Costs section of your Course Information for details of the costs you may incur.
Having developed essential skills in critical analysis as well as their own creative talents, graduates may go on to work in a number of different job roles, including:
Senior Lecturer, Brand and Communications Cluster
This course does not require a portfolio.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/mbm-global-master-business-management:
The University for the Creative Arts (UCA) offers the Global Master of Business and Management course, an excellent opportunity for individuals who aspire to advance to top-tier positions in the creative sector.
This course can significantly enhance your professional trajectory and help you propel your career forward.
By examining real-world case studies and establishing a robust theoretical framework, you will acquire an understanding of the intricacies of global business operations as a student at UCA.
The course aims to foster your growth as a potential leader, motivate you to pursue entrepreneurial endeavours, and provide you with the essential skills for senior roles.
The course prioritises independent learning, with the expectation that you will identify and develop a business project that is pertinent to your chosen specialty in the creative sector.
This method, in conjunction with a dynamic relationship with your tutors, ensures that you are able to lead your work while receiving guidance from staff and engaging with the industry.
The course curriculum adopts an international perspective in all its offerings, providing graduates with the necessary skills to thrive in creative business environments worldwide.
The objective of our course is to integrate knowledge from both the business and creative sectors, thus ensuring that you will graduate as a professional who is both highly employable and versatile and who has earned a recognised qualification.
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our MBM Global Master of Business & Management degree:
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Global Master of Business & Management students may be interested in.
Marketing Strategy and Digital Futures This unit provides a comprehensive examination of the fundamental principles of marketing management, delving into the complexities of current marketing practices with a special focus on the creative industry.
By integrating cutting-edge analytical tools with traditional marketing frameworks, this unit aims to provide you with a nuanced understanding of marketing performance in the digital age.
Business Economics in the Creative Industry This unit provides you with an understanding of economics and the ability to apply the various principles taught to real-world problems in creative industries.
You will study the principles of economics and you will also have the opportunity to apply economic concepts and models specifically to the decisions facing businesses in creative industries.
People and Global Culture in the Creative Industry This unit is intended to provide you with a comprehensive understanding of the complex interplay between individuals and culture on a global scale, with a focus on the creative industries.
By delving into the rich tapestry of diverse cultural landscapes, you will gain a better understanding and appreciation for the nuanced factors that shape human behaviours and societal norms all over the world.
Operations and Supply Chain Management in the Creative Industry The competitiveness of modern organisations is not solely based on the inherent quality of their products or services, but also on the speed and precision of their delivery to customers or clients.
This unit teaches you the strategic approaches used and the importance of  a well-executed operation and supply chain management system in maintaining a competitive edge and fostering customer loyalty.
MBM course
Having developed high-level business knowledge and essential leadership skills, graduates can progress to a number of different job roles within various areas of the creative industries, including:
Programme Director of Strategic Business & Management
Lecturer in Human Resource Management & Talent Management

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ma-human-resource-management:
MA Human Resource Management for the Creative Industries course, taught at UCA Epsom, is a degree that gives you a unique opportunity to tailor your HR skills to better suit this dynamic sector of the economy.
Ideal for those seeking a more specialised route into careers within areas like gaming, fashion or publishing, this course will give you the knowledge and skills to thrive within the creative industries’ organisational context, and support you to develop the specialised management and leadership skills needed in the sector.
You will manage your own learning and development and enhance your own skills in critical enquiry, logical thought, creative imagination and independent judgement.
You will also develop and consolidate informed professional and ethical competence across a range of industry specialisms.
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our MA Human Resource Management for the Creative Industries degree:
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Human Resource Management for the Creative Industries students may be interested in.
Strategic Human Resource Management You will critically evaluate the contemporary relevance of human resources management practices and activities in evolving creative workspaces, with emphasis on the strategic role people management can contribute to the leadership, strategic direction, strategic planning and overall organisational performance indices of businesses.
Human Resource Management Policy and Practice This unit will provide you with a broad understanding of the management of HR in the creative workplace and of effective organisational learning practices in diverse cultural contexts.
You will assess the role that HR Management plays in facilitating effective decision making and explore how creative organisations can effectively leverage the use of appropriate Learning and Development, and Talent Management practices, to create effective organisational value systems beneficial to the success of creative businesses.
You will also assess the role of HR in effectively managing workforce in a volatile, uncertain complex and ambiguous (VUCA) world.
Work Design & Organisational Change This will provide you with a broad understanding of the principles and practices of work design and organisational change in the creative sector and their dynamic relationship with organisational structure and culture in a constantly changing global business environment.
It will also explore the role of leadership in navigating through change in organisations and towards ethical, responsible and sustainable forms of management within the creative sector.
International Human Resource Management for the Global Workplace You will develop a critical awareness of how contemporary HR management practices can be made relevant to the global workplace in international and multinational organisations, and examine the critical differences in approach from domestic practice to International HR Managementand how what to consider when managing a globally mobile and diverse workforce with the creative sector and within culturally diverse contexts.
Graduates of this unique course benefit from the opportunity to tailor their HR skills to suit their specialised interests within the creative industry, while gaining essential knowledge of leadership skills, critical enquiry, logical thought and creative imagination.
Graduates might progress into HR management role within any number of creative industries including:

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ma-international-music-management:
Propel your music industry career aspirations onto the global stage on UCA's MA International Music Management degree course taught at UCA Epsom.
With some of the biggest selling artists now originating from non-English speaking countries, such as Korean groups BTS and Blackpink, and the Latin American market, language is no longer a barrier to achieving international success.
This breakdown of barriers, together with evolving digital economies, provide fascinating opportunities and challenges.
The effect on traditional business models is also essential to understand - artists, songwriters and record labels can now reach global audiences directly and instantaneously.
So it's important to explore how international music markets operate in terms of music consumption, marketing, branding, economics and distribution.
This course will enable you to choose from a range of career paths including artist management, international marketing, strategic development, social media marketing, eCommerce, record company marketing, supply chain management, music publishing, and careers in music tech companies, start-ups or consultancy.
By the time you graduate, you will have a comprehensive and critical understanding of historical contexts and current issues facing the music industry, and be able to apply advanced skills, techniques and processes to ensure your success in a dynamic international music market.
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our MA International Music Management degree:
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that International Music Management students may be interested in.
Global Music Industries: Recording and Publishing You will investigate and analyse the responsibilities of record companies and music publishers in this unit, critiquing and reflecting on the process of bringing a composition to market, and the influential role of record companies and publishers play in shaping the creative process.
Moreover, you will explore the significance of both record company duties and placing artists in studios alongside accomplished artists and producers, providing you with insights into optimising creative environments.
Global Music Business In this unit, you will gain a broad overview of business principles in a globalised world.
You will investigate how music businesses and organisations produce, purchase and sell goods or services, with the intention of making a profit or achieving a social aim.
You will gain a critical understanding of business strategy, marketing, finance, operations, leadership, people management, ethics, and sustainability.
Finally, you will investigate and evaluate business management practices to achieve its goals and objectives.
Global Music Industries: Live Music This hands-on unit covers business models in the live music industry, investigating key roles and gaining a critical understanding of live music working practices.
As part of your learning, you will set up and run a live music event, applying theoretical frameworks to a practical outcome and reflecting on your experience after the event.
Artist Management and Development You will analyse and critique contemporary artist management practices and deepen your critical understanding of how different stakeholders collaborate to build up artists’ careers.
Through the application of cultural theories such as the Systems Model of Creativity and Bourdieu’s Cultural Capital, you will critically analyse an artist’s brand, with a view to growing their fan base, and formulate an artist development strategy including the creation of real-life assets such as biographies, websites, or social media accounts.
Graduates of this course might begin their careers within this exciting creative industry through a number of different job roles that go beyond just a manager roll.
Senior Lecturer in Arts Business & Management

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ma-luxury-business-management:
Our MA in Luxury Business Management is a specialised degree course in luxury business, designed to support your career development within the luxury sector.
On this course, which is ideally suited to those with prior experience in the sector, you will explore the nuances of business, luxury industries, creative practice, exclusivity, and uniqueness, gaining specialised insights into luxury consumers and emerging market trends.
And, with Chartered Management Institute accreditation, you’ll also work towards gaining a prestigious professional qualification, in addition to your degree award.
With a curriculum that spans diverse luxury markets and products, you will be equipped to excel in this competitive industry.
You will benefit from exclusive guidance provided by renowned luxury experts, extending beyond the classroom to align with your unique interests and career goals.
This course is delivered at UCA Epsom and is based at our new The Wells Building which is close to the main campus.
You will elevate your understanding of luxury and unlock new possibilities in this competitive market.
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our MA Luxury Business Management degree:
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Luxury Business Management students may be interested in.
Navigating Luxury Industries and Business for Strategic Leadership This unit focuses on developing your ability to navigate the luxury landscape, and to understand its interconnectivity.
By introducing you to a range of interdisciplinary theoretical ideas, this unit will enable you to respond to complex contemporary challenges within the luxury sector as a strategic, thoughtful, and creative luxury business leader.
Luxury Industries And Business Futures You will enhance your analytical, creative, and practical skills in this unit, preparing you for leadership roles in the dynamic and evolving world of luxury industries and business.
You will focus on exploring complex issues and future opportunities within the luxury sector through the lens of entrepreneurial practice.
By exploring the dynamic interplay of luxury innovation and entrepreneurial leadership, you will gain insights into the multi-dimensional issues shaping entrepreneurial practices and the future of business in the luxury sector.
Fashion and Luxury Industries and Business Final Major Project Your final major project represents the culmination of your academic journey, requiring the practical application of knowledge gained throughout your programme.
Graduates of this impressive course might find themselves working within roles such as:
This course doesn't require a portfolio but as part of our accreditation from CMI, we will send you a short questionnaire to complete after you have applied, so please look out for this.
Additionally, you will be required to show one year of relevant work experience, demonstrating your ability to study at postgraduate level.
AND

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/master-business-administration:
If you are seeking a top-level career within the creative industries, UCA's Master of Business Administration course will accelerate your progression within the industry sector of your choice.
As a student at UCA Epsom, you will gain an understanding of how global corporations operate as you examine and evaluate real-life case studies and form a strong foundation of theoretical knowledge.
You will learn the key skills expected of those in senior positions in organisations, and will be encouraged to explore entrepreneurism and develop your capacity as a future leader.
Independent learning is at the core of this course - you will be expected to identify, develop and manage your own business project based on your chosen specialist area of the creative sector.
Through a proactive relationship with your tutor, you will lead your project work and be supported by staff and through engagement with industry connections.
Every course within our business portfolio is taught with a global perspective, giving graduates the skill set required to pursue a creative business career anywhere in the world.
Our teaching programmes are all project-based, combining knowledge from both business and the creative industries to ensure that you graduate as a well-rounded, highly employable professional with a highly-regarded qualification.
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our MBA Master Business Administration degree:
An intensive one-year course of advanced study of business practices, usually taken after you have gained professional experience rather than moving straight from an undergraduate degree.
Good Honours degree (or equivalent qualification) in the subject/related discipline and Two years' relevant work experience
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Master Business Administration students may be interested in.
Business Analytics and Operations in the Creative Industries This unit is designed to provide you with a comprehensive understanding of the application of analytics and operations management principles in the context of the creative industries.
You will develop the skills and knowledge necessary to effectively analyse data, optimise operations, and drive strategic decision-making in this dynamic industry.
This will help you to analyse market trends, assess competitive landscapes and identify growth opportunities that will inform strategic decision-making in supply chain management, inventory and quality control and capacity planning.
Strategic Innovation and Finance Management You will explore business, financial and management models relating to the creative economy and strategic innovation.
The unit will explore sources of potential operational risks within creative organisations and ways of pursuing innovative and entrepreneurial practices for sustainable and ethical business.
Marketing Strategy for the Creative Industries Develop a comprehensive understanding of contemporary theories and strategies for managing business and processes.
Your studies will be focused on current business and marketing concepts, helping you navigate the dynamic and challenging landscape of the creative industries.
Leadership, Decision-making, and Culture Increasingly, values, diversity and ethos have become core to a successful business in a competitive environment.
Leadership, team-direction, and decision-making is needed to leverage the very best from creative people and the diverse differences within global organisations – and keeping creative people motivated and active, while staying on track with business outcomes, is a key challenge.
So, this unit will provide you with creative skills relating to leadership and leading creative individuals within a supportive and sustainable environment.
It will take the form of a Research Project Proposal (20% of your final mark) and the Final Project (80%).
MBA course
Graduates of this course can take their MBA to any leadership role within the creative industries and elsewhere.
Senior Lecturer in Supply Chain Management & Organisational Behaviour
However, you will be required to show two years of relevant work experience, demonstrating your ability to study at postgraduate level.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2024/uca-supports-three-students-at-venice-biennale:
The University for the Creative Arts (UCA) has partnerned with British Council’s Venice Biennale Fellowships Programme to support three students who will spend a month at the Biennale.
28 March 2024
A British Council panel selected Viktorie Brezinova, Yi (Jill) Chen, and Youssef ElNahas to participate in the British Pavillion programme, under the theme Foreigners Everywhere , developing their creative projects and engaging with audiences.
Leo Burtin, a lecturer in cultural business and management at UCA’s Business School for the Creative Industries (BSCI), Professor Jean Wainwright of the School of Fine Arts Crafts and Photography (FACP), and Dr Sarah Scarsbrook, Lecturer in Management for the Creative Industries, were integral in UCA’s successful bid to become a partner said:
“All three of UCA’s Fellows have proposed projects which powerfully resonate with the 2024 Biennale’s theme of Foreigners Everywhere,” Leo said .
“Moreover, our students’ profound concerns with climate justice and its relationship to questions of international mobility, migration and intercultural exchange are timely, to say the least.
“The Fellowship Programme also represents a significant opportunity for UCA staff to strengthen creative connections across the Globe.
I can already tell that we will gain as much from our mentoring relationship with the Fellows as they will from their experience at the Biennale.”
Professor Jean Wainwright added : “As someone who has been involved in the Venice Biennale for a many years this presented a fantastic opportunity for our students.
We are so excited for them to be part of this global network and world stage.
Living in Venice for a month under the stewardship of the British Council not only gives students an opportunity to witness the unique phenomenon of the Biennale for themselves but also a great opportunity to make work that highlights global concerns.”
Dr Sarah Scarsbrook commented: “The fantastic opportunity it offers our Fellows to conduct unique research projects and work at the British Pavilion at a critical moment in Venice Biennale’s history regarding the urgency of sustainability concerns in the arts and cultural sector is exceptional.
“I’m thrilled to be joining UCA Fellows in Venice in June with Leo and Jean to run a knowledge exchange project and help advance UCA’s British Council partnership for future work together.”
Jill (Yi) Chen, studying MA Global Marketing and Communications at the BSCI in Epsom, is an international student from Taiwan and plans to use the opportunity to document her encounters with local Venetian residents around the subject of foreign immigration.
“Globalisation has brought different cultures closer and has an impact on the identity of individuals and communities, ” said Jill.
“With this project, I hope to contribute to a more inclusive and globally connected community, enhance mutual understanding and build meaningful connections between Venice and Taiwan.”
Studying MFA Photography, UK-based Egyptian photographer Youssef ElNahas has been documenting the world around him since he was a child.
He is particularly drawn to the sea and has first-hand experience of the effects of climate change on marine life and coastal communities.
Youssef explained: “During my time in Venice, I aim to develop a project serving as a documentation and commentary on sea level rise as a result of climate change, a global crisis that could cause irreversible damage to coastal communities around the world, including Venice itself.”
Lastly, Viktorie Brezinova, also studying MA Global Marketing and Communications and with a background in journalism and media , is focusing her project on how the media shapes public awareness and understanding of the effects of climate change threatening Venice.
She said: “I would like to explore how local media can help draw attention to the pressing issue, what measures the Italian government and local organisations are taking, and how the Venetian public reacts to the evident threat.”
The Venice Biennale is one of the world’s oldest and most prestigious cultural festivals in the world and the British Council have commissioned the British Pavilion exhibition since 1937.
To learn more about the programme visit the British Council website .

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2023/industry-icons-support-uca-future-business-talent:
Industry-leading companies have recognised talented business graduates at an awards ceremony at the University for the Creative Arts (UCA) in Epsom.
16 June 2023
The BSCI (Business School for the Creative Industries) Awards celebrate the best entrepreneurial and innovative ideas from this year’s graduates’ final major projects, with each award sponsored by some major names in the creative industries.
Purpose and Impact Award
Winner - Izzy Gray, BA (Hons) Fashion Promotion and Imaging.
Runner-up - Vivien Jakabova, BA (Hons) Advertising
Sponsored by TCO London, a D&AD Top 100 Design Studio, this award challenged students to come up with an innovative new brand concept, publication, or campaign which demonstrated creativity, original thinking and a clear purpose.
Izzy won with her multi-channel publication, Morel.
Aimed at Gen Z, the publication explores social, cultural, and environmental issues and is designed to be both inspirational and beautiful.
Izzy, who also won a two-week placement with TCO London’s editorial team, said: “I created a platform where fashion can be used as part of a conversation that inspires positive change.”
Future Thinker Award
Winner - Thelma Annweiler, BA (Hons) Fashion Business and Management.
Runner-up - Graciella Violetta BA (Hons) Creative Industries Management in Fashion (Top Up)
Sponsored by Unique Style Platform (USP), a world-class forecasting service for the creative industries, the Future Thinker Award recognisese excellent understanding of trend forecasting.
Thelma won for her biotechnology skincare brand, Tyde.
Her brand works towards changing people’s perception of lab-grown skincare through formulating nature-identical skincare ingredients that are better than nature itself.
"With a people, innovation, and planet-focused purpose, mission and vision, TYDE is bringing the growing trend of biotechnology to the forefront of sustainable skincare," Thelma explained.
As part of her prize, Thelma will be  mentored by a senior USP colour and trend editor, to create a mini trend report for USP’s website and social media channels.
Sustainable Business Award
Joint winners - Amy Edwards and Rose Toynton, both BA (Hons) Fashion Business and Management
Sponsored by The Eco System Incubator, a network of member businesses working in the circular economy, the Sustainable Business Award rewarded new business ideas demonstrating sustainable and circular practices.
Rose won with her project By Embrace, a service that considers the afterlife of bridal and event wear.
Joint winner Amy, won with her business proposal Re:GenZ, a regenerative fashion consultancy agency that helps Gen Z–led fashion start-ups navigate the landscape of circularity.
Amy said: “I’ve been trying to work out sustainable fashion for three years now, while on my course.
It’s been a journey, but I’m glad to be recognised.
As Gen Z, we can make a difference; it’s all about education, collaboration, and with new technology coming in, I really think we can have a greener future.”
The pair won mentorships with The Eco System Incubator founders Rachel Kan and Simon X.
Brand & Creative Communication Award
Winner - Zia McCrossen, BA (Hons) Music Business and Management
Runner-up - Maria-Rita Ferendeles, BA (Hons) Fashion Business and Management
Sponsored by The Advisory And, brand and creative communication experts collaborating with next-generation talent, the Brand & Creative Communication Award recognised a new brand concept or campaign with excellent creative brand communication.
Zia’s proposal for Artist Directory, a consultancy-based company dedicated to helping independent and unsigned indie artists establish and sustain themselves outside the label system, was picked as the winner.
Website-based with an app extension, the company gives guidance on every aspect of the music industry, from publishing to recording.
Zia won the opportunity to join collaborative creative business mentorship and coaching sessions with The Advisory And.
Professional Development Award
Winner - Ines Pereira Carneiro, BA (Hons) Music Business Management
Runner-up - Hugh Scannell, BA (Hons) Fashion Journalism
Sponsored in-house by UCA’s Careers and Professional Practice Team, the Professional Development Award commended students who showed a professional standard of work in their degree projects.
Ines won with her project, Womenarc, a magazine that aims to inform, educate, and connect women while promoting equality in the music industry.
“Since I was young, I have advocated for equal rights,” explained Ines.
“I was fascinated to learn how and why women in the music industry are treated differently from men.
It felt natural to write about women in the music industry and all their battles and influences that have helped us get to where we are today.”
Ines won up to £500 towards professional practice development costs, such as membership, course, equipment or travel.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2023/student-represents-uca-at-buckingham-palace:
MA Design, Innovation & Brand Management student Sid Oupathana visited Buckingham Palace – by Royal Appointment – last month.
20 February 2023
Sid, who hails from Laos, was invited to the reception, hosted by King Charles III and the Queen Consort to celebrate British East and South-East Asian communities in the UK.
“It was the greatest moment of my life, meeting the Royal Family, said Sid.
“I felt very honoured to meet them.
I managed to share my stories with the Duchess of Gloucester about how I would use my degree to improve the branding industries in Laos.”
Sid is studying for his Master’s degree at UCA Epsom as part of a world-class scholarship programme called Chevening.
Chevening allows students to live and study in the UK, develop professionally and academically, network extensively, experience UK culture and strengthen the collaboration between their home country and the UK.
Sid said: “The UK has a world-class level of education, which encouraged me to apply.
“In Laos I set up a local electrical brand, which led to the self-realisation that it could be much more if I had a UK education.”
Building on his passion for; technology innovation and branding, his MA will provide the skills to become a leader in branding and marketing back in his home country.
Sid’s career plans for when he returns home include creating a successful national brand; improving the perception of locally made products; creating more creative educational opportunities through collaboration with the UK, and creating a platform and community to inspire and support young creatives.
“At UCA I’ve enjoyed making new friends and connecting with other international students through my role as president of the language society,” he said.
“I have learned a lot of subjects and enjoyed academic discussions with tutors and lecturers, all of which has taught me game-changing skills for achieving my ultimate career goals.”
To learn more about learning more skills for business, visit UCA’s Business School for the Creative Industries.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/blogs/support-and-friendship-help-umme-find-her-place:
Being an international student is an exciting, but daunting experience, especially if you’re going to a new country!
But thankfully, the UK is a melting pot of people and opportunities – so you’ll be feeling at home in no time.
We’ve been chatting with five of our international students to find out more about what it’s like to study at UCA when you’re from overseas.
11 October 2022
In the final instalment of our series, we asked Umme Salma, picture above, who travelled from Bangladesh to study MSc Global Marketing and Communications at UCA Epsom, to tell us about her experience studying here.
“My university experience so far has been amazing.
I have learned and experienced so many new things in such a short period of time and developed good relationships with both classmates and teachers.
“The UK is an exciting place to study and build a career in the creative industry, and UCA is not only one of the largest specialist creative arts universities in Europe, but it is so close to London, which helps me with building contacts and gaining industry experience.
“Life at UCA is all about creating, collaborating, and sharing incredible experiences.
However, when I started my time at UCA, I felt I needed some support to help get ahead in my studies and social life, as everything was so new for me.
I was delighted when I heard about the Students' Union (UCASU) and how they to help make your UCA experience even better - supporting you, representing you and providing awesome social opportunities.
“I have always interest in exploring new culture, and people from all over the world live here in the UK.
It is the same for UCA – it has such a vibrant international community, and diversity is important in all aspects of learning.
I do miss my homeland, my family and friends, but studying in a different country has forced me to be more open to new surroundings, to new people, and to a new culture.
“Coming to UCA on the global marketing and communications course has been the best decision for my career, and I’ve had so much fun living here and making new friends.
The course is popular because a career in marketing appeals to a lot of people – plus every company or brand needs a marketing team so there will always be a demand for skilled marketing graduates!
“For my course and some others, you can also choose an area of industry to specialise in, including fashion, fine art, luxury, beauty, and games.
This means I have been able to gain a deeper understanding of the sector I want to work in and, I think, gives me a springboard into my dream career.
“The course is challenging, and it can be very difficult at times, but my tutors are very happy to help and answer questions in person or via email, and that's a big part of what kept me going.
This course also taught me about teamwork, leadership skills, professionalism, and the right attitude for dealing with various kinds of projects.
I really enjoyed my final project, which taught me how to create value for myself at a strategic level and many more.
Even during term time, I got opportunity to attend seminars, where many successful entrepreneurs shared their career journey, in-depth knowledge, and experience.
I attended various sessions and events which helped me a lot to progress my own plans, and now I can look forward to expanding my knowledge, and preparing for an eventual career within the marketing, PR, and advertising industries.
“My advice to anyone thinking of coming to UCA to study is to just make the most of your course's opportunities, as well as all the opportunities UCA gives you – it’s all valuable experience you won’t regret.
Just put in the work and you’ll get loads out of it.”
If you're interested in studying at UCA as an international student, visit our dedicated page to find out more.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/blogs/sohanur-ready-to-take-on-the-world-after-global-mbm:
The UK’s rich culture is a big factor for international students coming here to study – not just the university or the course.
We’ve been chatting with five of our own international students and graduates to find out what it’s like to be a student in the UK when you’re from another country.
04 October 2022
In the latest in our series, we asked Global Master of Business and Management graduate Sohanur Rahman Sohan, pictured above, to write about his experience, after choosing the UK to study over his home country of Bangladesh.
Before undertaking his Global MBM, he also completed a Graduate Diploma in Creative Business and Management at our Farnham campus.
“The main reason I wanted to study abroad was always the phenomenal level of education.
When it comes to choosing a destination for higher study, the UK was very convenient!
Universities in the UK provide the opportunity to learn from the very best.
“I picked UCA, because in my view it is one of the most prestigious universities and one of the best specialist universities too.
“The UK has a distinct charm that I admire.
It’s such a peaceful, diverse country with people from almost all other countries living here.
I do miss my home country and my family sometimes though.
“There were many reasons why I chose my course at UCA, but one of the main reasons was the course modules.
Furthermore, a Master's degree in management provides several advantages.
My course, the Global MBM is becoming increasingly popular across the world.
The MBM course is structured on management theory, organisational behaviour, and other areas of business.
And I’ve learned how to confidently use the likes of Adobe InDesign and Illustrator.
“Overall, this course is a great basis for a successful career – personally, I would like to be a marketing manager, collaborating with colleagues and creating business strategies.
“I would say to anyone thinking of coming to the UK to study at UCA – you’ll do great here!
If you’re an ambitious learner and you adore creative industries, then this is the perfect place to study.”

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/blogs/sashas-journey-of-discovery-with-uca:
When you know where you want to study, and more importantly, what you want to study, becoming an international student is an easy choice.
But there’s still a lot to learn and much more outside of university to discover.
We been chatting to five of our undergraduate and postgraduate students to find what it’s like being an international student at UCA.
22 September 2022
In the latest blog of our series, we caught up with MA Luxury Business Management graduate Sasha Miranda (pictured above), from India, to find out how she found the UCA experience.
Hi Sasha, thanks for chatting with us.
So, what brought you to the UK, and to UCA?
"I visited the UK around four years ago, and ever since I was set on being able to live and study here.
The fashion, culture and student life were the main driving forces for me to come and study here in the UK.
“As for UCA, it was the fact it has a Business School.
I was sure I would be surrounded by people who knew and were experts in creative business and there would be no one better to help us learn about it on a Master’s level more than the faculty at the school.
Additionally, the subjects that the course was covering had ticked all my boxes.
“I always wanted to study and learn more about the luxury business.
UCA was offering a well curated course for me to learn more about the industry.”
How did you find your move to the UK and settling in?
“I got in touch with other students joining in the same year through the UCA Facebook group, where I got to know students who were in the same situation as I was.
UCA was extremely helpful in helping me pick the right accommodation options, so I wouldn’t have to worry about where and with whom I was going to stay.
“I love the number of art and cultural events that take place in the UK all through the year – there’s so much to see and learn.
I’m still not used to the moody weather though!”
What did you learn most from your course?
“Through my course, I realised my interests in studying consumer behaviour and sustainability in luxury fashion.
It has allowed me to take my past experiences and mould it for better and more efficient use in my future career.
“It also helped me be independent and result-oriented, as Master’s students should be.
We loved studying in class with our professors and peers.
“The main thing I gained from being at UCA was being around like-minded individuals who understand the creative business and push you to do better.”
What do you think was your best achievement as a student?
“Being on the Navigating Luxury conference panel discussion hosted by Dr Nadya Ostroff, being able to sit among industry professionals to discuss everything about the luxury fashion industry today.”
Did you take part in any work experience while you were studying?
“I worked part time for a few months as a PR and Marketing intern for a company in London.
It was an amazing experience to learn from the teams, travelling to London regularly and spending hours as a working professional really helped me see what my future could be like.
I absolutely loved it!”
So, what’s next for you?
What’s your career ambition?
“I want to kick start my career in the luxury fashion industry and apply all the knowledge and skills we’ve gained during our masters in a real life scenario.”
Away from your course, what do you think has been the biggest thing you’ve learned being an international student?
“Independent studying and research techniques are my key takeaways from this course.
On a more personal level, it has taught me time and money management.
Being here has helped me become more organized and plan my day in a way to make the most of the hours we have.
Living in a country away from the comforts of home allows you to discover yourself more than ever before and we as students should make the most of the incredible opportunity we have on our hands.
Finally, what advice would you have for other people looking to come to the UK and UCA to study?
“I would say, consistency is key – start working from day one and slowly but steadily you will ace your course.
Have a support group of friends around you, it’s the most important thing.
And lastly, don’t forget to explore and experience university life and the new country you’re in.”

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/blogs/from-nepal-to-epsom--one-students-story-of-international-learning:
Our international students are a huge part of UCA life, adding to our rich melting pot of cultures and creative insight.
But what is it like being an international student here?
We chatted to five of our undergraduate and postgraduate students to find out more – from what they’ve learned on campus, to adjusting to UK culture (and weather!)
06 September 2022
In the first of our series, we caught up with MA Human Resources Management for the Creative Industries graduate Lelina Subedi, pictured above, who came to the UK from Nepal to study with us.
Hi Lelina, what made you decide to study abroad in the UK?
And why UCA?
“I was looking for diversity, a one-year course and the chance to find work post-study.
I wanted to do Human Resources and Management, and I discovered UCA while on my search.
I adore UCA’s Epsom location, which is neither particularly close to nor particularly far from London.
This area is ideal for someone like me, who values tranquilly but occasionally wants to experience the bustle of city life.”
How did you find your move to the UK/settling in?
“I didn’t have much trouble adjusting to life in the UK.
I made several acquaintances from Nepal after coming to the university and getting here.
I was able to settle into my new surroundings with the help of my friends and our course instructor.
“I like that people are vocal in the UK – people have such a gift for communication, and they also use their voice to support others.
They are welcoming in nature too.”
What do you miss the most about your home country?
“I miss the natural landscape of my home country.
I miss hills, rivers, mountains, evening walks in the night light with my family, the street food, and my friends.”
So, why did you choose to study MA Human Resources Management for the Creative Industries at UCA, and how was your experience?
“After working for Teach for Nepal for two years, I realised that if the organisation’s HR are effectively and efficiently mobilised, organisational goals may be achieved with ease.
I learned about UCA through a consulting company.
The Guardian gave UCA an outstanding rating, and the fee schedule was also fair.
I therefore had no need to consider institutions other than the UCA.
“Every module was motivational and enlightening, and I realised that HR is about more than just hiring; it’s also about empowering workers through training and being aware of the legal framework that supports both the firm and its workers.
“I had the opportunity to become a course representative during my studies.
This gave me the ability to speak up for my friends and my own concerns and helped me build diplomatic and communication skills.”
“Overall, I've come to appreciate patience and the pursuit of excellence.
I also learned to speak out when I feel the need to advocate for anything.”
What are the benefits you’ve found studying at a specialist creative arts university?
“Even though my field of study is HR, which is not very artistic, seeing other students' creative works, such as needlework, fashion, and textile, on exhibit made me feel like I was a part of this enormous creative family and gave me a feeling of belonging.”
Finally, what advice would you give to any international students who might join us in future, or who are just starting their learning journey with us?
“Be flexible and open to accepting difference and change.
People from all over the globe live in great numbers in the UK and UCA.
If you are willing to learn and put your biases aside, it will be simpler for you to relate to everyone.
“And I would suggest you ask for help if you need it.
Whatever you are struggling with, you don’t have to endure it by yourself.
There are people at UCA who can help - you just need to reach out.”

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2022/biggest-names-in-business-sponsor-bsci-awards:
Some of the biggest names in business have lent their support to some of the brightest future talent at UCA’s Industry Awards 2022, hosted by the Business School for the Creative Industries, Epsom.
15 July 2022
The likes of Meta (Facebook), the Goat Agency and Stylist magazine sponsored nine awards that offered a range of prizes to graduating BA students designed to help kickstart their careers and/or new business ideas.
The winners of the awards – chosen from submitted final major projects -  were announced in a hybrid ceremony hosted by Director of the Business School, Professor Philip Powell, and Deputy Director, Charlotte Rutter.
Here are this year’s winners, together with information about their incredible projects and ideas:
Disruptor + Innovator Award sponsored by RÆBURN – Noks Kayinga  (BA Fashion Management & Marketing)
Noks received the Disruptor + Innovator Award for her proposal for Neoma , a peer-to-peer platform exclusively dedicated for the buying and selling of upcycled products with a strong community ethos.
Noks won a half-day mentorship afternoon and RÆBURN Lab tour.
RÆBURN said of the winning project: “We champion craft, creativity and community and we see this vision within Noks’ concept.
Their business idea focuses on creating exclusivity while also promoting peer-to-peer interaction, a combination that is often quite difficult to conquer.
It's great to see young creatives flying the flag for community.”
Digital Marketing Strategy Award sponsored by The Goat Agency – Tania-Bianca Dumitrachescu (BA Marketing)
Tania won the Digital Marketing Strategy Award for her marketing agency that proposes to fill the gap between two of the most important aspects in business: creativity and organisation.
The Social Flight’s vision is to become the ultimate go-to agency for small beauty brands through real connection, transparency, innovation, and organisation.
Tania won a two-week paid internship at Goat.
The Goat Agency said of the proposal: “Tania’s research and innovation was brilliant.
The app prototype was particularly impressive, and the way she takes you through her digital marketing strategy was inspiring.”
Creative Social Media Award sponsored by Meta/Facebook – Alex Rahneva (BA Fashion Management & Marketing)
Future Thinker Award sponsored by USP Unique Style Platform – Alex Rahneva (BA Fashion Management & Marketing)
Alex’s Unknown app won her not one, but two awards - The Creative Social Media Award, for demonstrating a creative and original approach to content creation, and the Future Thinker Award for demonstrating excellent understanding of trend forecasting.
Unknown is a VR therapy service in app format which helps sexual assault (SA) survivors who are uncomfortable attending face-to-face therapy.
It provides them with a virtual safe space with the ability to customise and control the environment.
Alex won a pair of Ray-Ban Stories Smart Glasses – the latest in wearable tech – as well as lunch at Facebook headquarters in London and mentorship time at the USP studio.
Meta/Facebook said of the winning app: “Alex’s exciting use of VR technology to create a virtual safe space for therapy demonstrates significant potential for socially aware development in the metaverse.”
USP added: “The project was both thoughtful, sensitive, and beautifully delivered from concept through to the final design, she brought the idea to life in a contemporary way.”
Sustainable Business Award sponsored by EcoSystem – Sarah Kate Parker (BA Creative Industries Management in Fashion)
Sarah Kate won the Sustainable Business Award for her business idea for a socially conscious lingerie brand.
Nothing but Nips offers sustainable underwear options produced with eco-friendly lace and biodegradable materials.
Sarah Kate won a mentorship with the founders of EcoSystem, Rachel Kan and Simon.
Ecosystem explained why Sarah Kate’s project had been selected: “She had great research into the intimate apparel space and a realistic dip into the 'sustainable' supply chain that is key to create such a venture and for the product to be viable and accessible.”
Branding + Communication Award sponsored by Stylist – Aurora Hartford (BA Fashion Management & Marketing)
Aurora won the Branding + Communication Award for a product launch of an existing brand.
Sienna Byron Bay is a range of gel nail polishes that are vegan, cruelty free, and hypoallergenic.
Stylist said they were “impressed by the 360 strategic approach - from transparency, environmental and social impact, to inclusivity and pushing gender boundaries.”
Aurora won a networking meeting with Stylist Group’s Managing Director, Sophie Robinson, plus the opportunity for a one-week unpaid work experience in the Stylist marketing team and a Stylist goodie bag.
EDI Award sponsored by Twin – Joanna Siolkowska (Fashion Promotion & Imaging)
The Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity Award was awarded to Joanna for her look book, POL in LDN , which is a tribute to her late father who sadly passed away during the project.
Inspired by her Polish culture and heritage, her look book teaches the world what it means to be a young Polish woman growing up in the UK.
Twin commented: “Joanna's purpose was clear and that she achieved her goal.
She demonstrated a clear understanding of her audience and has produced an interesting and creative project.”
Joanna won a two-week paid internship with ACME London – an international architecture practice – working on media campaigns, bids, and websites.
Entrepreneurial Spirit Award sponsored by The Advisory & – Kira Juanacio Calzapanta (BA Fashion Management & Marketing)
Winning the Entrepreneurial Spirit Award for her handmade and sustainable crochet brand was Kira.
Bycherry demonstrated progressive and conscious thinking and by using recycled yarn, she turned waste into treasure.
The Advisory & said of Kira’s brand: “Her personal journey and passion for a more thoughtful world through crochet, is an inspired concept.
The campaign, with a focus on joy, TikTok magic, and a real understanding of the Bycherry audience has really captured our values for bringing in something beautiful for all to enjoy, while making a difference.”
Kira won a series of creative business mentorship sessions with The Advisory & founders Teresa Havvas and Peter Penny.
Professional Development Award sponsored by UCA Careers – Katherine Clarke (BA Fashion Management & Marketing)
Finally, the award for Professional Development was presented to Katherine Clarke for their degree project.
Self is an innovative wellness app offering immediate delivery of self-care products for young career chasers, aiming to engrain wellness into their busy everyday lives and thrive as a result.
UCA Careers explained why they chose the project: “Katherine has developed a clear business proposal which shows deep engagement with their target market.
Most crucially Katherine proposes an entrepreneurial model which goes against the grain of hustle culture, inviting us to slow down and providing concrete tools to help us negotiate the tensions of work and self-care.”
Katherine won up to £500 towards professional practice development costs such as membership, course, equipment or travel.
If you’d like to discover the range of courses on offer at our Business School for the Creative Industries, click here.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ba-digital-marketing-social-media:
Get all the tools you need to thrive in the fast-paced marketing industry
Specialise in an area of the creative industries that appeals to you
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our BA (Hons) Digital Marketing & Social Media degree:
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Digital Marketing & Social Media students may be interested in.
Principles of Marketing This is the introduction to to the concepts, theories and models utilised in marketing and communications, providing the basis for further study.
Specifically, this unit introduces you to the objectives and theory of marketing as a business function.
It explores the role of marketing within organisations and how marketing can be used in the achievement of an organisation's goals and objectives.
Social Media: The Campaign In Social Media: The Campaign, you’ll be introduced to the concepts, theories and models used in social media campaigns providing the basis for further study.
You’ll learn about the objectives and theories of social media campaigns and places social media in the wider marketing landscape.
Navigating the Consumer Journey Navigating the consumer journey should be the priority for your business.
You may have the best goods and services in your industry, but if you are not connecting with your audience, your efforts will yield poor results.
To learn more about this you’ll learn to work with frameworks such as AIDA, develop personas and assess situations using marketing methodologies, and examine successful brands to see how they reach their audiences provides insights that will help you develop your own.
Understanding Consumers and Audiences The consumer is at the heart of the marketing process.
Understanding how and why we behave in response to products and services is complex, involving social and psychological dynamics.
This unit explores what happens before, during, and after the point when someone buys something, examining the ways consumers find and engage with information during the decision-making process and how their own lived experiences impact the ways they interpret data and make decisions.
Industry Brief in Branding & Communications Assuming the role of an industry professional in your field, you will respond to a brief provided by an internal UCA client.
You’ll take part in client meetings, check-in presentations and deliver a final pitch in which you will explain your research, insights and concept development.
Multiplatform Delivery While media planning has always been integrated across available channels, today the content development process is integrated across practices into activities that used to be considered separate.
On this unit, you’ll design a campaign/delivery that harnesses the communicative and persuasive power of multiple channels.
Principles of Content Creation You’ll discover why, where, and how to deliver brand concepts and content in this unit, using relevant skills in strategy and tools of content production.
You’ll undertake brand content projects in which you will first consider the strategy (platforms, channels and tactics) and then use tools and processes to develop your understanding of the creative potential of design and copy in relation to brand communications.
Storytelling and Narrative Telling stories is one of the most powerful means that we have to influence, teach, and inspire.
It forges connections among people, and between people and ideas.
Stories convey the culture, history, lifestyle, and values that unite people, they engender emotion and loyalty.
In this unit you’ll learn how integral storytelling, and any narrative you wish to communicate, is to any business.
Influence, Self-branding and Promotion The topic of influence and influencer-led marketing is covered in this unit and you’ll develop a framework for understanding contemporary challenges to visibility, traction, and communication that face creatives seeking to represent clients, employers, and themselves including their values across social media platforms, professional networking websites, and freelance labour marketplaces.
This unit applies a critical and theoretical lens to the subject, questioning the roles that influence and promotion plays within society and business and how you can develop your own brand within that context.
Creative Business Brief in Branding & Communications Assuming the role of an industry professional in your field, you will respond to a brief provided by an industry client, such as a brand or advertising agency, also acting in the role as the client.
During the course of the four weeks, you’ll participate in client meetings, check-in presentations and deliver a final pitch in which you will explain your research, insights and concepts and campaign executions.
You’ll identify potential international markets for distinct cultural products and assess the feasibility of touring to those markets, considering financial and logistical aspects.
Strategic Planning You’ll be introduced to the concepts, theories and models used in strategic planning by businesses.
The content will cover how strategic planning is actioned taking in the processes, management and key thinking that goes into formulating strategy documents and plans.
During this unit, you will engage with the strategic planning process to develop a proposal that will then be executed as your Degree Project.
Creative Enterprise and Engagement Whether you’re working for yourself or working in-house, you’ll learn how to oversee projects, collaborate with colleagues, set timelines and scope and price work appropriately.
The purpose of this unit is to get you up to speed with the essentials you need around new work projects and thinking like an entrepreneur, whether you’re working as a freelancer or a consultant in marketing and social media or you’re in-house and issuing bids and tenders for work.
Ethics and Society Ethics is a branch of philosophy that is pertinent to understand and learn about in relation to business, art and society at large.
In this unit, you will learn how to reflect on issues that face us in society using a range of philosophical sources and methodologies to be able to analyse situations through a philosophical lens.
Degree Project In this final unit, you will apply your learning to create a distinctive piece of work for your degree project.
The purpose of your degree project is to allow you to identify opportunities successfully in your specialist subject area to promote and to develop your career.
Digital Marketing & Social Media graduates can expect to leave their studies with an extensive knowledge of the very fundamentals of the industry that can enable students to develop their career in a variety of different roles.
Senior Lecturer in Digital Strategy and Marketing
Senior Lecturer in Critical Theory

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ba-fashion-branding-communication:
Learn the fundamentals of business with a fashion focus
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our BA (Hons) Fashion Branding & Communication degree:
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Fashion Branding & Communication students may be interested in.
Alumni stories:  Working at Stella McCartney
Creative Fashion Branding Communications Through lectures and group discussions, you will be introduced to the key concepts of fashion as a vehicle of cultural communication, and how fashion brands utilise these techniques within a range of advertising campaigns.
Fashion and Beauty Industry Brand Generation This unit will guide you on an exploration where fashion and beauty brand development intertwine with trend forecasting.
You’ll be challenged to delve into the creative process of researching and developing ideas to craft your own fashion or beauty brand.
Through in-depth analysis of your chosen market, you will determine your target consumer, and develop a commercially viable brand proposal.
You will discover the fusion of design aesthetics and commercial acumen that sets your brand apart.
Visual Communication This unit delves into the impactful realm of imagery and how this is conveyed through diverse platforms, including online media and video.
You'll explore the multitude of platforms used for communicating fashion images.
Additionally, a lecture series will provide insights into the visual history of fashion and beauty, exploring their relationships with history, theories, and culture.
Producing Fashion Media In the ever-evolving landscape of fashion, effective media production is crucial for conveying the essence of brands and trends.
This unit is a comprehensive exploration of the creative, editorial, conceptual and ethical aspects involved in developing captivating fashion content.
From envisioning the visual direction to crafting compelling narratives, this unit delves into the multifaceted world of fashion media production.
Cros s-Cultural Management This unit will introduce you to the importance of cross-cultural awareness and intercultural competence for business success in the global cultural and creative industries.
Case Studies in Fashion Branding and Communications This unit will take a case study approach to deepen your understanding of branding and communication in the fashion industry.
Throughout this unit, you will be exposed to a range of case studies selected to demonstrate best practices, common pitfalls, and highlight important considerations when approaching business situations in fashion branding and communication.
This course is highly regarded in the fashion world, and we have forged many strong industry connections, including:
We host a number of visiting lecturers, including:
Our graduates have secured many rewarding career positions throughout the fashion industry, for example as:
Our graduates have progressed these roles at the following companies, to name but a few:
"The tutors helped guide me through my creative thoughts and turn them into processes that I then could take into the real world.
They were good at helping me understand the importance of prioritising and finding a balance, which I still try and use"
Ashley Deverell

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ba-film-production:
Practice-based and geared to meet the ever-changing demands of industry
Graduates have gone on to work on major blockbuster movies and TV shows
Famous alumni include Loki director Kate Herron
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our BA (Hons) Film Production degree:
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Film Production students may be interested in.
The British Academy of Film and Television Arts (BAFTA) is a world-leading independent arts charity, supporting emerging and established talent within the creative industries.
Preview of Graduation Film - Schmetterling
Preview of Graduation Film - Closed Doors
Preview of Graduation Film - Flora
Preview of Graduation Film - All I See (Music Video)
Preview of Graduation Film - Mascult
The content of this Film Production degree may be subject to change.
Narrative Fundamentals Story is the basis of scripted film forms.
You will be introduced you to the fundamentals of this aspect of filmmaking, and key stages and roles in the development of scripts, including: story discovery and development, screenwriting and script editing, and development producing.
Production Fundamentals Designed to provide you with a comprehensive introduction to the production workflow - pre-production, production and post-production - across both studio and independent film practices.
You will learn about production roles and departments, and will have training and hands-on experience with camera and sound.
Scripted Production You'll gain a comprehensive introduction to the key skills, techniques, and processes used in the making of a scripted film.
You will be able to build on your learning from previous units through application of skills and knowledge to the development and realisation of a short, scripted film using contemporary industry practices.
Unscripted Film Proposal Building on your filmmaking knowledge gained in previous units, this unit will provide you with a comprehensive introduction to the principles and practices of unscripted film production.
Working in a small group, you will undertake a research and development process leading to a proposal for a short unscripted or factual film, consisting of a treatment and a sizzle reel, which presents a portrait of an individual, a place, a group or a subject.
Major Scripted Production You will take responsibility for a crew role in the production of a short, scripted film, through which you will further develop specific skills, as well as an understanding of the contribution of an individual crew role in each stage of the production process.
Professional Development Portfolio We will encourage you to reflect on your learning and skill development throughout the course, to further prepare you for the world beyond university.
You will build the foundation for your CV and online presence, and develop your confidence in presenting yourself and your work to the industry.
You will learn about freelancing, and build an understanding of industry roles and potential employment routes.
Unscripted Production Building on the filmmaking knowledge you gained in previous units, in particular, Unscripted Film Proposal, this unit gives you the opportunity to experiment with different types of unscripted film forms and to push creative boundaries.
Extended Essay / Video Essay You will focus on the development of your research and critical thinking skills, and your ability to study independently, through the investigation of an individually negotiated topic and the completion of an appropriately illustrated academic essay.
Pre-production Pack You will be challenged to take on pre-production relevant to your crew roles for the Final Film Project unit, and will build on the technical, collaborative and professional skills in filmmaking that you have learnt during the course.
The Business of Production Designed to prepare you for the transition from education to the professional world.
This unit emphasises a range of business and management skills that can be applied within the film industry, or transferred to other sectors.
Final Film Project You will further develop your filmmaking knowledge and technical skills to a level that will enable you to work to a highly creative and professional standard by the end of the course.
Building on learning achieved earlier in the course and work previously completed, this unit offers you the opportunity to extend your understanding and ability in your chosen role, and to realise the projects started during the course through production, and into post-production and a final screening.
If you opt to study the Professional Practice Year, for 2024 you will be required to pay a reduced tuition fee of £1,900.
If you opt to study the Professional Practice Year, for 2024 you will be required to pay a reduced tuition fee of £3,390.
Facilities include two purpose-built film studios with dedicated technical support; sound editing, 7.1.2 surround sound mixing as well as digital and analogue editing suites.
Software includes Avid Media Composer, Symphony, Baselight, Nitris and Pro Tools.
Production kit also includes high end cameras, lighting and sound kit, which is available on campus from the Equipment Hire Department on site.
Room: G12
Room: W107
Room: W103
Room: W109
Our Film Production degree has many industry connections, including:
We've hosted a number of visiting lecturers, such as:
As well as coursework, our students are supported in external projects and have made professional level film work for organisations including:
Our Film Production students have undertaken work experience on major blockbuster films and award-winning features, such as:
Our Film Production graduates have worked in various roles on big budget productions, including:
A number of our graduates are working for range of high-profile organisations, such as:
The types of roles our graduates go on to achieve include:
Learn more about hat careers can you do with a film degree
We offer a range of postgraduate film degrees.
"The course was an amazing experience.
I can’t believe how much confidence I’ve gained.
To go from an incredibly shy, reserved person to standing in front of a lecture theatre and pitching an idea is an amazing achievement."
Hannah Cole
Please check our Film Production portfolio requirements and read our advice on creating a strong film portfolio .
UCAS applicants should also check our UCAS personal statement guide for a film applicants .
Programme Director for Film, PhD student
Senior Lecturer in Directing (Factual)
Senior Lecturer in Screenwriting
Lecturer in Directing (Fiction)
Lecturer in Film Production
Lecturer in Producing, Year 3 Lead (BA Film Production)

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ma-graphic-design:
With an emphasis on research and problem-solving, our MA Graphic Design course at UCA Farnham will give you, as a graphic designer, the tools and confidence to develop your practice as a skilled professional communicator.
Our priority on this Masters in Graphic Design degree is to ensure that your work comes from a place of informed and independent research and that you master your own unique style and visual language within graphic design.
You'll explore different applications of visual language and how it relates to your area of specialism throughout your Graphic Design masters degree.
In the process, you'll enhance your understanding of the aesthetic and commercial value of your work, and build professional experience that will make your practice more innovative.
You'll benefit from the extensive industry links of our Graphic Design academic staff and also have the chance to foster relationships with industry partners within your area of specialism.
We are proud to boast connections with a range of organisations including the BBC, FutureBrand, GF Smith and Typocircle.
Through guest lectures, live briefs and opportunities to network with industry experts, you’ll gain current experience of the design industry, learning how to present both yourself and your design work in a professional arena.
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our MA Graphic Design degree:
Studio 1 This unit is your investigation into expanded forms of practice.
By challenging traditional and established means of communication, through visual and contextual investigation, you will develop experimental and varied methodologies and processes.
Research & Professional Contexts 1 You will be introduced to the principles of research and the methodological approaches applied to the study, analysis and production of practice.
As such, this unit establishes the basis that all practice, intellectual thought and knowledge acquisition is informed through distinct stages of research management.
Studio 2 You will be encouraged to critically reflect on the development of your research and will challenge you to investigate multiple areas of study.
A series of practice-based projects will enable you to consider and apply a range of methods, approaches and ideas which will inform and assist you in the development of your practice.
Research & Professional Contexts 2 In this unit, you will identify and make contact with an external partner, with whom you will agree a project plan and agree outcomes.
By working with an external partner, you will have the opportunity to place your work in a wider contemporary context and engage new audiences.
Major Project The culmination of your studies, this unit gives you the opportunity to demonstrate evidence of advanced conceptual, theoretical, and technical.
You will apply your research skills and in-depth subject knowledge to produce a substantial major project that is innovative and sophisticated in its conception and execution.
You'll benefit from well-established industry links with corporate, media, cultural and creative organisations.
Our course has links with:
We also have regular guest lecturers and recent guests have included:
MA Graphic Design alumni go on to work in a diverse variety of exciting careers.
Employment opportunities include:

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ma-illustration:
UCA's Illustration degree gives you the chance to challenge yourself, push boundaries and find your path as an adaptable practitioner in the field of contemporary illustration.
Based at our Farnham campus, this course explores the illustrated narrative.
Contemporary illustration has grown to embrace a broad spectrum of opportunities for image-makers and storytellers alike.
With the growth of online digital cultures - and the evolution of digital image creation for traditional image-making – there are new and exciting opportunities for the entrepreneurial illustrator to make their mark.
You’ll explore every facet of illustration within practice and context, working with like-minded creatives in a dynamic and intellectual environment.
We’ll give you the tools and support to pursue your self-directed study, and produce a body of work that is true to you and makes a meaningful impact in the field of illustration.
Visiting lecturers and practitioners will help to inform and nurture your professional development, encouraging you to question and debate as you grow your practice.
Visit our course instagram to discover more about what's happening on the course and see some of our students' work in progress.
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our MA Illustration degree:
Brooke talks about studying at MA Illustration
Illustration at UCA has a long tradition of original narrative and storytelling through images, reflecting staff expertise and practice in these areas.
Students on MA Illustration also benefit from well-established industry connections.
Graduates from our MA Illustration course go on to establish careers in a diverse range of exciting areas, such as:
"I’ve really enjoyed the course and the course content is broad, which is great because it’s helping to expand my skill set.
The lecturers and technicians are all extremely helpful and encourage you to experiment with different techniques and approaches and this is made possible by the great facilities and technology available."
Jayesh Sivan

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ma-user-experience-design:
Delve deeper into the world of UX design and explore its creative potential on our MA User Experience Design degree course at UCA Farnham.
This industry-focused UX design course will equip you with the expertise to craft seamless digital experiences, blending research, strategy, and cutting-edge design techniques.
Running alongside other masters degree courses within our School of Communication, this UX degree provides a collaborative and research-driven environment.
You’ll gain hands-on experience in interface design, usability, and human-computer interactions, developing solutions that enhance user engagement.
You'll be introduced to and examine the advanced specialist tools, methods, concepts and processes relevant to the practices of User Experience Design through a series of projects, workshops and advanced technical sessions that relate to your own research and aspirations, before forming your ideas and developing your framework to complete your Major Project.
Alongside live briefs and industry engagement, you'll undertake a rigorous investigation into existing practices - researching, questioning, challenging, debating and addressing key debates relating to UX Design.
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our MA User Experience Design degree:
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that User Experience Design students may be interested in.
Launch Your launch week is the chance get to know your peers and start working collaboratively, through a range of activities, including design sprint exercises, talks, field research trips and a special focus on international student integration.
Studio 1 Your studies begin with an investigation into expanded forms of practice within Interface and Interactive Design.
You will experiment with methodologies and processes, challenging established means of communication.
By challenging pre-conceptions and approaches to practice, you will expand your understanding and skills to engage with new audiences.
Research & Professional Contexts 1 You’ll learn the principles of research and the methodological approaches and how all practices are informed through distinct stages of research management.
Opportunity The hackathon week is an opportunity for students to work across year groups to produce and replicate industry practice.
This will take the following format:
Studio 2 You will critically reflect on the development of your research and investigate multiple areas of study.
By the end, you will have developed your project proposal along with your visual strategy for your Major Project.
Research & Professional Contexts 2 On this unit you will develop industry approaches within the creative industries.
You will investigate the potential for collaborative practice by identifying and making contact with an external partner, with whom you will agree a project plan and agree outcomes.
Major Project The Major Project is a culmination and celebration of your studies.
It is your opportunity to demonstrate your advanced understanding and application of the research techniques, concepts, and skills that you have engaged with over the course of your MA.
By applying the learning developed from previous units, you will reflect professional acumen, social awareness and contemporary context, and will deliver a portfolio of work that is industry ready.
You will be required to direct your practice towards a final resolution that could take the form of an exhibition, publication or event.
Graduates of this exciting course might develop their career in a number of different creative and business industries.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ma-visual-communication:
Take your design work to the next level on our Visual Communication degree at UCA Canterbury, and become a cultural innovator who can use your work to entertain, inform and persuade.
On this course, you’ll explore the ways in which you can convey messages and meaning through a diverse range of media - from print and motion to digital - and you’ll be encouraged to develop new skills to strengthen and inform your design practice.
You’ll learn to approach design as an agent of change – a strategy for positively transforming behaviours in desirable and sustainable ways.
You’ll also have the opportunity to collaborate with other members of our creative community and enhance your work in the areas needed to become a creative leader within the field of visual communication - an area that spans print media, user experience, motion design, web design, exhibition design and advertising.
Visual Communication is designed to help you develop your identity as an author and innovator, equipping you with the skills and knowledge to identify and solve design problems within cross-disciplinary environments, including traditional and digital printmaking, moving image suites and 3D studios.
Led by Hugh Harwood and a team of experienced professional designers with connections at the highest level of industry – including Slawa Harasymowicz and Vida Vega – you’ll learn through a range of lectures, project briefs, workshops, written assignments, group critiques and individual tutorials.
The MA is also available as an MFA route which offers a further enhanced opportunity for students wanting to develop their professional portfolio to the highest level, or to build a proposal for Doctoral level study, and pursue an academic research career path.
Applicants can apply to undertake the full MFA, or undertake an MA and transfer to the MFA at the end of the MA period.
Please note: the MFA route is not available for September 2025 entry.
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our MA/MFA Visual Communication degree:
The Pre-Masters course is taught at UCA Farnham and once completed you move to UCA Canterbury for your masters course.
The MFA is a two-year course with a Summer break.
You can apply to undertake the full MFA, or undertake an MA and transfer to the MFA at the end of the MA period.
Defining your Practice The purpose of this unit is to encourage a wide-ranging exploration of creative practice techniques to identify potential research questions and strategies that will inform your further studies and practice.
You will be able to develop technical skills and explore and develop research methods.
Research Contexts Exploring the design, construction and expression of practice as a process of research, you will be introduced to critical research methodologies which you can then employ in your independent research enquiries
Extending Your Practice Visual Communicators today do not just respond to design problems identified by others, but often instigate visual/design/cultural challenges themselves.
This unit prepares you for this potential role.
You will be able to concentrate on a specialist interest within the field of Visual Communication and through that interest, contribute to discourse, build online network and professional prescence, and produce exhibitions, publications and/or commissions.
Professional Contexts Focused on professional development, this unit engages students with professional contexts through opportunities and projects developed with partner organisations.
Through group work and individual research, within this unit, students will establish and develop a sense of their position in relation to their identified subjects, interests and practice areas.
This unit also includes the opportunity to develop a creative business plan, funding application, or pitch to professional audiences.
Major Project This unit enables students to undertake a sustained, in-depth and critically informed research inquiry.
Students will define their practice through their own work and an understanding of how it sits in relation to others — identified industries and/or professional contexts, collaborators and audiences.
The major project will culminate in a substantial piece / body of work.
This unit is dedicated to developing, extending and furthering student's professional practice.
Through advance research methods, this unit will require students to demonstrate the skills, knowledge, confidence and originality that they have developed as a practitioner and researcher.
Through this unit students will be supported in preparing PhD applications, organising public events and seeking external platforms to work with professional contexts and engage audiences.
MFA course
MA course:
MFA course:
Graduates of this exciting course will have had the opportunity to take their design work to the next level and might continue to develop their talents in a variety of different roles.
"Studying at UCA is definitely one of the greatest experiences I’ve had.
I can feel creative and energetic vibes everywhere on the campus.
The UCA team at the campus are really helpful and friendly, they’re supportive in many ways, regardless of whether we need academic or personal advice."
Ka I Lei

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/bsc-computer-science:
A responsive course that changes to meet the needs of the cohort and the industry
Unique in its position within a creative setting
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our BSc (Hons) Computer Science degree:
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Computer Science students may be interested in.
Launch This week is all about preparing you for university learning for the year, through workshops designed to audit and refresh your existing skills to prepare you.
Programming & Interactivity You’ll be introduced to the fundamental concepts of programming and learn core aspects of software literacy, framed around building an interactive application.
You’ll do this through weekly labs, pre-recorded materials, and self-directed study.
After core learning has taken place, from week 8 you will have focused development labs, which will support you with troubleshooting your applications.
Equality Diversity & Inclusion Through this unit, you’ll develop an awareness and understanding of equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI), and learn progressive values and attitudes for creative practice.
Data and Databases This unit introduces the basic concepts underpinning relational databases and to provide the tools for designing, implementing, and querying databases.
Opportunity A range of activities will be available to broaden your engagement and subject knowledge, such as Code Jams and Design Sprints.
Other activities could include study trips and/or studio visits within the local area, nationally or internationally.
Examples of this would be the Berlin digital arts/music/culture festivals Transmediale and CTM, or to other European destinations such as Amsterdam or Barcelona.
Programming & GUI Applications You’ll continue to build your fundamental concepts of programming and help establish core aspects of software literacy, framed around building graphical user interface applications using Java.
The Computing Professional This unit introduces you to the professional roles and working practices in the computing and related industries.
Web Design & Development You’ll establish your understanding of browser-based design and development using HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript, and use these to create a piece of online work that uses one or more of these elements (structure, style, front-end programming).
Object-Orientated Programming & Cybersecurity Building on programming with Processing and Java in Level 4, the unit introduces object-oriented programming, one of the principal programming paradigms.
This will include developing an understanding of object-oriented problem modelling.
This unit will also explore basic concepts of cybersecurity.
It will seek to draw out the connections between these two important areas of computer science.
Coding skills are key to developing secure systems and an understanding of security concerns and processes is important in developing reliable and safe software.
Having a secure approach to software development is becoming increasingly important.
The Conscious Practitioner (or Equality, Diversity & Inclusion 2) Explore creative practice in relation to a range of global perspectives, as you continue to learn about subject specific concepts of inclusion, exclusion, and diversity.
Introduction to Artificial Intelligence You’ll be introduced to the fundamental concepts of Artificial Intelligence and implementation using the Python programming language and its associated libraries.
Artificial intelligence is growing in importance in computer science and will continue to do so, so it’s essential you have a good understanding of the concepts of AI as well as an appreciation of its power and limitation.
Application Development: Industry Brief In this unit you’ll develop an application in line with the requirements of the industry partner involved with the project.
This unit will provide an opportunity to focus your Javascript and p5.js skills developed in the first term and apply these in an industry-focused setting.
ATOM Activities and PLE Digital Outcome These units are an extension of the Year 1 ATOM Activities and PLE Digital Outcome.
Artificial Intelligence for Creativity Building on your existing Python knowledge and using open-source machine learning frameworks, you will learn to create and work with AI models – towards the creation of unique and innovative cutting-edge creative applications.
Mobile Application Development This unit provides an overview of the different approaches to build mobile applications and introduces students to key concepts, standards, data formats and development tools in integrated application development, covering both frontend (client-side) and backend (server-side) technologies.
Final Major Project The culmination of your skills, passion, and creativity, the final major project and your role in it (if as a team member) should be ambitious but achievable and framed within how you want to promote yourself as a creative computing practitioner/computer scientist.
You’ll produce a creative, challenging, detailed and logical proposal for a body of work that you’ll complete in the final semester.
You will plan the production of this work using a common industry methodology, the approach of which will be covered during this unit.
Alongside the project, you will be compiling a showreel of work to showcase your mini-projects and prototypes thus far.
The unit and year will finish with an exhibition which celebrates the prototypes and projects completed for this unit and throughout the course.
Graduates will have had the opportunity to study from a range of elective units to broaden their knowledge in specialist subjects, while also being able to explore their specific interests.
This tailored approach to studying computer science means a variety of job roles are of high interest to our graduates.
Lecturer in Immersive Media Technology
Lecturer in Computer Programming
We’re interested to know if you have any background in computing and why you wish to study at a creative university, so we recommend you include this information in your personal statement.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/bsc-games-development:
Ideal for aspiring Technical Artists
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our BSc (Hons) Games Development degree:
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Games Development students may be interested in.
Meet the technicians - 3D printing with Max
There will also be other activities, such as study trips and/or studio visits, Design Sprints, could also take place.
Fundamentals of Games Development You’ll learn the fundamentals of game development practices, through three core pillars of understanding required to develop a variety of technical skills - Game Engines, Scripting and Programming, and 3D Modelling
Equality Diversity and Inclusion The unit provides an opportunity for you to explore what is meant by equality, diversity, and inclusion and the implications of these concepts on your own creative practice..
Board Game Design Applying your skills to paper-based design, you’ll work in teams to prototype and build a board game.
You’ll consider building mechanics, technical design documentation and artwork such as box art, character and environment designs, including 3D models for your game, which you’ll present at the end.
Gameplay Design and Programming This unit introduces further key concepts required to more effectively prototype and produce compelling video games, and you’ll also resume your education in the critical and contextual debates surrounding the medium of video games.
Technical Art Technical art bridges the gap between artistic and technical practices, such as programming, visual effects and animation within the field of video games.
You’ll be introduced to game engine tools and the theory required to create visual effects and improve the visual fidelity of video games programmatically.
Through this you will build shaders/materials and learn how post processing and lighting can be used to control the aesthetic direction of a video game.
The Conscious Practitioner You’ll explore global perspectives and influences on creative practice, drawing upon interactions with varied identities, cultures, politics, and histories.
Tools and Production Tools and Production introduces you to new key skills within the discipline of games programming and technical art while concurrently building your first self-directed projects aligned with a chosen discipline.
As technical artists, one key skill is an ability to create tools that can be used by artists and designers to simplify asset pipelines and tasks in game software and engines – and you’ll be introduced to the scripting practices required to do this.
Advanced Games Programming Concluding all prior technical units throughout your course, this unit introduces advanced programming practices and theories that are common requirements within professional environments within both video game and software development.
You’ll be required to take part in various technical tests designed to gauge your knowledge of programming languages and ability to problem solve.
The tests that will be taken throughout this unit will be in line with industry standard tests that are typically used during recruitment processes.
We have studios with high-end PCs with Alienware towers, 4k dual screen monitors and Wacom Cintiq graphics tablets, all dedicated to games design, with software including Unity and Unreal games engines.
There is also a VR development studio, and a dedicated Games Incubator Studio for graduate entrepreneurs looking to set up their own companies or looking to release games to market.
In addition, our Farnham campus has sound production and Foley studios, pro tools and a specialist library.
Virtual Production and Mixed Reality Studio, powered by White Light SmartStage technology.
Taking advantage of our proximity to the UK’s largest games hubs, our course connects directly with some of the best-known names in the industry, including:
We also regularly welcome input from active industry practitioners, who can offer expert advice and guidance to students about the realities of working in the computer games market.
The UK games industry is the fifth largest in the world, with plentiful opportunities, particularly in London and the South East where almost half the market is based.
According to the Association for UK Interactive Entertainment, the games industry grew by 26 per cent between 2017 and 2018, and 82 per cent of games companies are looking to expand their workforce.
This course is uniquely focused towards producing graduates who are steering their careers towards being a Technical Artist working between both the artists, designers and programming teams.
They can work in various roles such as:
View Games Development portfolio advice

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ba-virtual-augmented-reality:
Use state-of-the-art facilities, such as our new Virtual Production Studio
Learn the fundamentals of immersive technologies
Not a games course - this one covers a wide range of industries and specialisms
This course is available for applications into Year 2 or 3 only.
Expand your horizons and your knowledge of what virtual and augmented reality can offer on our innovative BA (Hons) Virtual & Augmented Reality degree course at UCA Farnham.
Whether it’s in the world of entertainment or education, medical or military, virtual and augmented reality are unlocking a raft of new possibilities when it comes to presenting information.
This course will broaden your understanding of the field, and you’ll learn how to enable different elements to interact in film, audio, art, gaming, and more.
You'll also explore how you can exhibit work as interactive media in a physical, spatial context, using techniques such as 360-degree perspectives.
With a constantly updated suite of hardware and software to ensure you’ll be in line with industry when you graduate, you’ll have the freedom to follow your imagination in dedicated design spaces equipped with top-spec 360-degree cameras, spatial mics, tactile haptic feedback suits, and more.
If you’re prepared to rethink the scope of virtual and augmented reality, and are ready to study a practical, hands-on course, then this is the one for you.
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Virtual & Augmented Reality students may be interested in.
Augmented Reality Technologies You’ll examine the advanced specialist tools, methods, concepts and processes relevant to Augmented Reality through a series of projects, workshops and advanced technical sessions.
This is a practical workshop-based unit where you’ll learn how to design and develop in augmented reality and all the technical and creative differences AR and VR.
This unit offers you the opportunity to learn the fundamentals of working with software, and coding for mobile AR applications, to design and prepare assets and graphics for AR, and how to develop exciting AR experiences using a number of tools, such as Vuforia, Wikitude, ARKit, ARCore and ARToolKit.
Spatial Interaction Design You’ll explore the human element of designing XR.
Without getting the human element correct, no amount of technology fixes will make XR experiences interesting.
Using case studies and XR principles developed by experts, you can map out a framework of user experience and interaction design guidelines.
This unit will also explore haptics and touch interfaces, controllers and inputs for interaction design and 360 sound design to direct attention and guide users in XR storytelling and spatial interaction.
Audience Engagement and Experiences This unit relies on and build all the previous units in the course and offers you the opportunity to develop unique experiences for specific audiences in varied industries, using the tools and approaches available through XR.
You will evaluate contemporary interactive and immersive experiences, and study specific audiences, their needs and interests.
Through a series of projects and supported by workshops you will design experiences for specific audiences.
Immersion and Storytelling You’ll broaden your understanding of interactive experiences to influence your future direction by utilising theory from seminars and research and developing your narrative skills.
You’ll be encouraged to cooperate, test and rehearse your project ideas with your classmates.
Several XR experiences, books, video games, and films will be discussed in class, from different perspectives
Final Major Project – self-directed or team The Final Major Project is a culmination of your skills, passion and creativity.
The final major project and your role in it if a team member, should be ambitious but achievable and framed within how you want to promote yourself as a XR Experience Designer.
Through projects, workshops, and lectures you will undertake a rigorous investigation into an aspect and topic of personal interest within XR.
You are encouraged to critically engage with the discipline and its key debates to initiate and locate your body of work.
You will produce a creative, challenging, detailed and logical proposal for a body of work that you’ll complete in the final semester.
This course has studios with high end PCs with Alienware Aurora towers and the latest RTX 2080 graphics cards, 4k dual screen monitors and Wacom Cintiq graphics tablets, with software including Unity and Unreal games engines.
Games studio, UCA Farnham
VR motion capture film studio, UCA Farnham
Library, UCA Farnham
Graduate students can expect to leave their studies and begin their careers in this exciting industry with a variety of different roles.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/msc-game-engineering:
UCA's MSc Game Engineering course aims to give you the necessary knowledge and skills to undertake advanced games development.
You'll build on your previous technical studies, whether these are within a technical games subject or in another relevant technical discipline, to develop complex game outputs.
During the course, you'll explore 3D graphics, including modelling, rigging, and animation using contemporary tools, together with AI and machine learning, which are often used in games to enable advanced game play, features, and worlds.
And using Unity and Unreal Engine, you'll begin to build games, culminating in your final major project.
You'll be supported throughout by a mix of academic expertise and insight from industry professionals, and have the opportunity to learn real-world skills beyond the classroom through networking, placements and competitions - from PocketGamer, Guildford Games Festival and London Games Festival to Rezzed, EGX and Medway Rapture Experience.
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Game Engineering students may be interested in.
Launch Your launch week is the chance get to know your peers and start working collaboratively.
Game Engine Programming and Development You will develop a theoretical proposal of the game you plan to develop throughout the unit, demonstrating objectives, schedule, budget, choice of game engine, team members, assets to use and other relevant details.
You will then implement your game using a chosen game engine, including using essential game engine subsystems, tools, and elements.
Advanced topics in games engineering will also be covered in this unit, and you will apply what you’ve learned to your game.
Games Research and Professional Contexts 1 In this hybrid unit, you will get the analytical tools to not only interrogate and interpret existing games and gameplay experiences in written and verbal form, but to apply what you learn to their practice in a reflective report.
You will learn to synthesise theoretical research methods and industry practices of game evaluation to provide a critically informed and reflective toolset for analysing and critically assessing games, gameplay experiences, and their practice.
You will learn about a range of methods for analysing video games on the level of their content and form drawing upon established research practices within the academy for analysing texts, images, and more recent Game Studies-specific approaches.
In tandem with this scholarly approach to research methods, the professional practice strand of this unit will provide you with industry and practitioner-led insights into how game design and art practices are analysed and assessed within the game development process.
Delivered by industry insiders from a range of career stages and focuses, this element of the unit will provide opportunities for students to understand and apply industry standard best practice for evaluating games.
Opportunity Opportunity week gives you the chance to work collaboratively to produce and replicate industry practice.
Game Artificial Intelligence You will learn about artificial intelligence, machine learning, and deep learning in the broader sense together with fundamental concepts to game AI such as game states, character intelligence, and agent and environment related topics.
Alongside this, the unit covers standard machine learning libraries with Python and you will implement an AI algorithm in Python, as well as proposing a plan for how you would integrate AI to the game you developed in the Game Engine Programming and Development unit.
You will also learn theory and practice and consider the future of games industry and research.
Games Research and Professional Contexts 2 Building on the methodological and analytical skills developed in Games Research and Professional Practice 1, you will be introduced to range of key concepts, theories and debates providing a conceptual lens through which to critically deconstruct game form and content.
In addition, to this focus on game texts and concepts, topics will focus on players: on their experience of gameplay, on player cultures and identity and the role of game creators in shaping players as individuals and collectives.
Centrally, these questions of player identities and cultures will be framed via concepts of equality, diversity, and inclusion.
In this unit, you will also undertake a collaborative professional practice group project.
This is expected to involve groups of students across the games postgraduate portfolio collaborating on a project which may be based on an industry brief.
Game Engineering Major Project As the culmination of the course, this unit requires you to undertake a specialist and challenging project of your interest and choosing in the area of game engineering, and will demonstrate a professional level of accomplishment.
Optionally, the project may also involve collaboration with industry.
The project will encompass research, design, development, and evaluation stages, which will be suitably planned and documented and accompanied by a set of digital assets and artefacts produced by the project.
Our course provides students with a skillset to potentially become future leaders within the game industries.
Graduates might go on to work in a variety of different roles.
Our graduates have gone on to work for large gaming companies, including Ubisoft, Activision and Rockstar North.
View Game Engineering portfolio advice

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/msc-human-computer-interaction:
UCA's MSc degree in Human Computer interaction will provide you with skills that bridge a number of creative industries - from games design, product design, service design, software design to even designing interactive information systems.
On this course you'll be introduced to the field of human computer interaction as both an academic and design discipline, and you'll combine applied projects with theoretical knowledge.
Initially, you'll learn about human perception and action as well as the role of emotion and how this relates to the design of interfaces.
So, you'll cover vision and hearing as well as external senses such as touch, taste and smell, and internal senses.
We will also look at the importance of short and long-term memory as well as context and situation awareness.
You'll also focus on design methodologies and how they relate to field of interaction design, from methods of understanding the problem space, to prototyping and evaluating your work.
You'll explore tools that support wire-framing and techniques for rapid prototyping, and you'll also learn about walk-throughs, user testing and focus groups.
There will be the opportunity to explore ideas through short assignments, collaborative thematic work as well as your Final Major Project.
Along the way, you'll be taught and supported by our mix of academic staff and experienced industry professionals, in our extensive facilities with cutting-edge technologies.
There will also be opportunities to network with other industry professionals and experts in your field as this course is focused on building your network and position within a fast-paced and competitive industry.
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our MSc Human Computer Interaction degree:
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Human Computer Interaction students may be interested in.
Fundamentals of HCI This unit introduces the field of Human Computer Interaction and covers topics such as cognition, role of emotion, design process, conceptual models, interface metaphors, requirements engineering, and evaluation methods.
It also explores the role of a UX designer in practice and how this works as part of an agile software development team.
Research Methods for Creative Technologies You will learn to synthesise theoretical research methods and industry practices of interactive app evaluation to provide a critically informed and reflective toolset for analysing and critically assessing applications, interactive experiences, and their practice.
You will also learn about a range of methods for analysing interactive applications on the level of their content and form and develop an understanding of qualitative methodologies for capturing and evaluating the interactive experiences of a diverse range of users.
This unit aims to give you the analytical tools to not only interrogate and interpret existing applications and interactive experiences in written and verbal form, but to apply what they learn to their practice in a reflective report.
State of the Art This unit will be split into two key areas.
The first will be focused on qualitative and quantitative research, which forms a major part of the discipline of Human Computer Interaction.
The second will involve a theoretical survey of the field, providing you with necessary language as well as highlighting key thinkers in this area.
Another aspect of this unit will be a hands-on practice-based focus on experimenting with microcontroller and Arduino through a series of workshops and self-directed practical engagement.
A prototype for a physical computing project will be developed in conjunction with a clearly defined research methodology that aligns with qualitative and/or quantitative research methods.
HCI Lab This studio-based unit is designed to be a stepping-stone to your investigations and interests, as well as a space for exploration and experimentation with alternative design processes and methodologies.
It builds upon the previous units and as a studio class it delves into more detail regarding participatory design methods alongside a practical project with an external local community partner.
You will also undertake a collaborative professional practice group project - This is expected to involve groups of students across the postgraduate portfolio collaborating on a project which may be based on an industry brief.
Final Major Project The Final Major Project is a culmination of your skills, passions and creativity as developed across your MA education.
The final major project, and your role in it, should be ambitious but achievable, and framed by how you want to promote yourself as a Human Computer Interaction specialist.
Through this final project you will either utilise proposals you have been working on in other units or develop an entirely new proposal.
Graduates of this course can expect to leave with essential knowledge in design methodologies, human perception and action, context and situation awareness and the role that emotion plays in the development of modern design and experience.
This can help graduates to progress and begin their career within several different roles.
The MSc course does not require a portfolio but for the Integrated Pre-Masters course we will need to see your portfolio for review.
Once you've applied our Admissions Team will provide information about how you can submit your portfolio.
View portfolio advice for the Integrated Pre-Masters course

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ma-virtual-immersive-reality:
Learn the skills to bring new worlds and experiences to life through the power of technology on our Immersive & Virtual Reality course at UCA Farnham.
The growing demand for virtual and immersive reality - in fields such as architecture, transport, entertainment, healthcare and education - has been accelerated by the COVID-19 pandemic, and it's predicted the UK virtual reality industry will grow to around £294m in just two years' time.
Whether for virtual tours of global museums, galleries and iconic cultural and historical sites, fashion shows, travel experiences or games, designing spaces or remotely training healthcare students, more and more companies and organisations are turning to virtual and immersive reality to add to their appeal and overall effectiveness.
Through this course, you'll collaborate with students and staff across different subject areas - from film and fine art to games and digital media - to gain the skills and insight to create these experiences using the very latest software.
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our MA Immersive & Virtual Reality degree:
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Immersive & Virtual Reality students may be interested in.
Fundamentals of Virtual and Immersive Reality You’ll learn all of the fundamentals of Virtual and Immersive Reality, exploring its historical development and tracking through to the present day.
You’ll discover key outputs from designers and artists who have created work in XR, as well as key theorists and theoretical concepts including virtuality and immersion.
You will be introduced to a range of relevant creative technologies and will prototype your own piece of XR work.
Research Methods in Creative Technologies You will learn to synthesise theoretical research methods and industry practices of interactive app evaluation to provide a critically informed and reflective toolset for analysing and critically assessing applications, interactive experiences, and their practice.
You will learn about a range of methods for analysing creative technologies on the level of their content and form and develop an understanding of qualitative methodologies for capturing and evaluating the interactive experiences of a diverse range of users.
In tandem, the professional practice strand of this unit will provide you with industry and practitioner-led insights into how creative technology design practices are analysed and assessed within the development process.
Immersive Storytelling and Audience Engagement You will learn the principles of storytelling and how they are being applied, transformed, and transcended in Virtual and Immersive Reality in this unit.
Through video games and now XR, the role of narrative during the last decade has evolved to such an extent that it has redefined the trends of the market.
This unit will broaden your understanding of interactive experiences to influence your future directions by utilising theory from seminars and essential readings to research and a develop your narrative skills.
You will also study immersive theatre and its unique approach to audience engagement and storytelling and ways in which it is moving into and influencing XR in a range of ways.
XR Lab This workshop-based unit is where you will learn game engines to design XR experiences, as well as learning workflows to make XR games, experiences and applications.
This unit offers you the opportunity to learn the fundamentals of working with software, and coding for XR applications, to design and prepare assets and graphics for XR, and how to develop exciting XR experiences using a number of tools.
In this unit you will also undertake a collaborative professional practice group project.
This is expected to involve groups of students across the postgraduate portfolio collaborating on a project which may be based on an industry brief.
The final major project, and your role in it, should be ambitious but achievable, and framed by how you want to promote yourself as an XR Experience Designer.
We have studios containing high-end PCs with Alienware Aurora towers and the latest RTX 2080 graphics cards, 4k dual screen monitors and Wacom Cintiq graphics tablets, running software including Unity and Unreal games engines.
There is also a VR development studio and a dedicated Games Incubator Studio for graduate entrepreneurs looking to set up their own companies or to release games to market.
The growing demand for virtual and immersive reality within a plethora of different industries means that graduates might develop their career within a variety of different roles.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2022/metalsmith-wins-polishing-honour-gcdc-awards-2022:
Metalsmith and recent graduate Emily Smith has won the Bronze Award for Polishing at this year’s Goldsmith’s Craft and Design Council (GC&DC) Awards.
29 July 2022
Chaos Brooch ©Emily Smith
“Emily Smith’s ‘Chaos Brooch’ is just the right kind of crazy for us; we love its sculptural shape,” noted @gcdcawards on Instagram.
Polishing is just one of the specialisms of jewellery making, as well as stone-setting or smithing.
It is the final stage of any jewellery process, and it takes intricate care to finish the piece to a high standard.
“There are many stages to go through to get to an effective finish”, explained Emily.
“It can make a big difference to how impactful the piece is and how well the craftsmanship quality is perceived.
One of my favourite techniques is polishing; the satisfaction of achieving a good polish is incredible!”
Now working as a metalsmith, she has broadened her scope to encompass all things metalwork, including more ornamental, as opposed to wearable, pieces.
Emily’s practice has always been about humanity – taking issues and finding a silver lining.
She has this in common with GC&DC, which is keen to foster a greater awareness of environmental issues.
“I may not have the ability to be a doctor or politician, but I can use my platform to help inform folks and give them a handy talking point, to make them smile and to raise money for worthy causes along the way with the skills that I do have .
With each collection I donate ten per cent of sales to a relevant charity,” she said.
"Make Jewellery Not War" ©Emily Smith
Emily also supported the Hand Medal Project, where more than 3,000 jewellers around the world made medals to honour the hard work of health workers throughout the pandemic.
The medals reached more than 300 hospitals worldwide.
Chaos//Catharsis channels feelings of chaos into feelings of catharsis by creating an object that is cathartic to hold, and cathartic to play with.
The collection is made from sterling silver and influenced by abstract expressionism.
Ten per cent from each sale will be donated to mental health charity Sane.
Another recent collection of Emily’s is called Make Jewellery Not War (MJNW), with a percentage of sales going to Médecins Sans Frontières.
It features a series of little wearable sculptures made from silver and melted brass shell casings, “reminding people to; not only see the good in the world but to be it.”
Not one to rest on her laurels, Emily is already planning exhibitions of her work later this year, including the Pyramid Gallery in York and the release of a limited-edition Christmas collection.
You can follow her activities on her Instagram page, @the_metalsmith.
To learn more about studying Crafts at UCA, visit the course pages.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/blogs/uca-alumni-takes-place-alongside-ceramics-greats:
Former UCA student and researching ceramicist Ben Pearey has become the latest in a long line of acclaimed UCA makers to reach the very top – and has been featured in a new book and exhibition about the future of the craft.
06 January 2022
Ben, who graduated in 2018 and is now furthering his study at the University of Arkansas, has been featured in Contemporary British Ceramics: Beneath the Surface, by Ashley Thorpe, alongside UK greats such as Alison Britton, Martin Smith, Ken Eastman and Carol McNicol.
Accompanying the book launch was a recent exhibition at Eton College.
We caught up with Ben to find out more about his work since leaving UCA and what it means to be included in such a prestigious publication.
Hi Ben, thanks for talking with us.
How does it feel to be featured in this book and exhibition?
"Ashley Thorpe, the author of the book, sent me a photo during the installation of the exhibition and my work on the wall was next to some vessels by Ken Eastman, whose work I have coveted for years and years!
There are so many artists I have looked up to for inspiration in the show.
Needless to say, it feels pretty exciting.
It’s been a great thing to be part of, and I’ll be forever grateful to Ashley for everything he’s done, to Connor Coulston and the Eton team for facilitating the show, and to my mum for shipping the work too.”
What have you been up to since you graduated in 2018?
“When I left UCA I moved to East London and, because of this, I was very lucky to join a ceramics studio called Studio Manifold.
Lots of great things came out of that decision.
I continued my own practice there with a great group of inﬂuential studio mates around me.
I was able to gain some experience teaching ceramics workshops with one of the artists there, Matthew Raw, (who was also a visiting artist during my second year at UCA) and I think that experience has had a tremendous impact on me in so many ways, not least my conﬁdence.
“My studio mates, Hanne Enemark and Amy Hughes, also introduced me to Vessel Gallery in Notting Hill, where I worked part-time, and where I met plenty of wonderful people and learned important skills that continue to beneﬁt me.
“I was accepted by the University of Arkansas for their Studio Art MFA, and I moved here mid-pandemic in December 2020 and have been making work ever since.
The program here is fully funded and we are oﬀered a stipend for working for the school, so I’ve been paid to teach my own foundations class and develop my skills on the equipment in our 3D lab.
It’s been very useful, and I know I made a good decision coming here."
Ben Pearey
So, when you finish at Arkansas, what plans do you have?
“I never plan anything that far in advance.
I’ve got another two years here in the program, after which I expect I’ll want to travel around a bit more doing some residencies before I ‘settle’ anywhere.
It’s deﬁnitely not easy to sustain oneself in this industry through a studio practice alone, so I fully expect to consistently have other jobs alongside it.
I think at some point I’d like to teach and should be in a good position to do so when I leave here.”
To someone who might not be completely familiar with ceramics as a craft, why is it important?
“I think I can only answer this by explaining why I personally use ceramics.
Firstly, it is such a versatile material, that allows me to build virtually anything I want.
I have been able to play around with totally abstract forms, as well as fairly convincing mimicry.
Secondly, the traditional ceramics process I learned - that is, taking clay from the ground, creating form with it, ﬁring it, glazing it and ﬁring it again - is so compelling.
It is full of variables, risk, massive highs and lows that can be completely out of your control.
Thirdly, it has a very rich history with diﬀerent uses from so many cultures and geographies.
Some of my recent work has very directly referenced the use of functional ceramics objects in everyday life.”
Ben Pearey's work was featured in a book and accompanying exhibition at Eton College.
How would you describe your style – what do you hope people gain from seeing your work?
“I don’t know that I have a style, and if I do, I certainly haven’t quite come to terms with it.
I do think that I have been working along some recurring themes for the last few years, albeit in quite diﬀerent ways.
I think about my relationship with the everyday a lot, particularly moments of interruption (discovery, surprise, serendipity, absurdity or out-of-the-ordinary) that occur within my everyday experience.
A lot of my research involves just living my life and waiting for things to excite or intrigue me while I’m scurrying about in my apartment or walking to the studio.
In regards to the viewer’s experience, despite my tendency to make work that is based explicitly on speciﬁc experiences from my own life, there is some universality in ﬁnding some meaning in the little things in life, and I am attempting to prompt consideration of that.”
What did you enjoy most and gain most from your time at UCA?
“Though I always felt like I was a ceramics rebel at UCA - ignoring typical ‘rules’ of ceramics - I gained the foundational skills and modes of thinking there that were so important in shaping how I think about my practice today - particularly things like my relationship with risk.
This was in a large part thanks to the inﬂuence of the faculty and visiting artists there, who both challenged me and supported me when I needed it.
Of course, exchanging ideas over drinks at the pub with my peers was also pretty great!”
Finally, what advice would you give to current ceramics students about potentially making a career from it?
“I certainly don’t have all the answers.
Firstly, it’s hard!
It’s a real grind.
I love what I do, but there have been so many times of real doubt, when I couldn’t aﬀord my rent or was getting denied from everything I applied to (which still happens constantly, of course).
I have found it really important to jump at opportunities even if it hasn’t been part of my ‘plan’.
“I had no ambition or conﬁdence to teach when I left UCA, but I needed the money and found myself really enjoying teaching workshops with Matt Raw, and now I teach my own university class.
Building connections has been really important to me, and while it’s deﬁnitely dependent on circumstance, privilege and luck, I have found that reaching out to industry professionals has been fruitful.”
You can see more of Ben’s work on his Instagram page and you can find out more about our ceramics courses on our course pages.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/blogs/from-mbe-to-mgk---we-talk-to-alumni-stephen-webster:
UCA alum Stephen Webster MBE hit the headlines at the start of 2022 when it was revealed he’d helped design the engagement ring given to actress Megan Fox by rapper and actor Machine Gun Kelly.
But as one of the greatest jewellers of modern times, we wanted to find out more about his career, his passions and his views on the industry today.
02 March 2022
Above, Stephen Webster MBE.
Stephen, who graduated from the Medway College of Design, one of the foundations of UCA, is the head of the eponymous brand, which holds its headquarters in London’s Mayfair district.
His fine jewellery, as well as being worn by Megan Fox, has been seen adorning the likes of Cher, Olly Alexander, Emilia Clarke, Jennifer Lopez, Blackpink, Taylor Swift, Sandra Bullock, Lizzo, Danai Gurira and Robbie Williams.
He was awarded an MBE for services to the British Jewellery industry in 2013.
The ring co-designed by Stephen Webster and rapper Machine Gun Kelly.
Hi Stephen, thanks so much for chatting with us!
What are your favourite memories of your time at the Medway College of Design, and what skills did you learn with us that you still use today?
“My fondest memories really are the excitement of being in a workshop, with the noises, the smells, the flames.
Everything felt quite brutal and industrial.
People were working on what looked like treasure, which to me, I realised this way of making a living could be phenomenal.
“The skills I learned at Medway were just constant.
I was there full time for a year, then I was part time between being an apprentice and going back to college on day release and I couldn’t get enough of it.
If I felt there was a skill that we weren’t learning on my course, I would look to see if I could learn it outside by taking additional classes.
I think they set me on a path of being very competent jeweller which then gave me confidence as I became a designer as I was never limited on what I was able to do with my abilities.”
Your brand has been running for more than 30 years - what’s the secret to having such a successful brand for so long?
“I think first of all, you have to have a passion – without passion no one would have anything, but I think in something like luxury, people look for longevity.
They look for things that are established and it’s not that there isn’t room for newness, because 30 years ago we were new, but you’ve kind of got to earn your place by being excellent at what you do.
“Also believing in yourself and your team and their abilities, and not being put off by feeling intimidated by what else is out there.
You must feel confident that what you’re doing is your point of view - and then I think you find your place.
In your eyes, what’s been the biggest change in the world of jewellery – for example the way it’s consumed, or the designs itself, or materials used – in your career?
“I think some things are the same, the materials for example, there is very little that has come along that hasn’t been used forever.
Of course, there are things like titanium and ceramics, which are the newer materials and they have brought new possibilities.
But generally, we are working with the same things that jewellers have been using for thousands of years, which is fabulous, and then it’s about what you do with it.
“What we have seen in the industry in the last 10 years is a lot more enthusiasm for design driven jewellery.
It’s not that design driven jewellery wasn’t there before, you could always look at any period and say this was design driven, this was traditional etc, but the fact is that the jewellery design is becoming more and more the core of what jewellery is.
"Then around the outside you’ve got the emotional jewellery, the bridal and commitment jewellery which is, in itself, influenced by design and creativity because there is an enthusiasm for it.
The younger consumer now has got many options on what they might choose for their engagement or wedding ring, whereas I think not so long ago that was the holy grail of what you didn’t touch.
People could like designer jewellery but when it came to this special occasion, they would think well this is what an engagement ring ‘should’ look like.
“I think right up to the famous ring we have just made (for Megan Fox), you can make different statements.
This has exciting potential for what’s changing in jewellery, that more people want to be in an industry that feels progressive and creative than they would if it was the industry that I joined that felt very stuck.
At that time, if you did want to be creative and design driven, you had to face the fact that it was a niche market.
“If we were to start Stephen Webster today, I think we would probably find a lot more places that our jewellery could go than I could 30 years ago."
So where do you see the industry going in future?
“I think what’s amazing is we have just seen two years of Covid, which is something that no one could anticipate, and what’s surprised me and in the industry as a whole, is how well hard luxury survived.
“I think it’s because no one looks at jewellery and thinks, ‘well I can’t wear this season therefore I don’t want it’ - it lasts a lot longer than that.
What we have seen is that the uptake in wanting to show your feelings, affection, friendship, commitment to people has skyrocketed after this period.
I don’t think anyone even thought about this, because no one was ready for it, so I suppose it’s a positive!
“The one thing I noticed in our business is how much younger the demographic is.
When I joined 30 years ago, I was 30 and my clients were 40 to 50 years old and that’s because that was the age group you had to aim for because they bought real jewellery, whereas the 25 to 30-year-olds weren’t interested because it wasn’t part of any look.
Now, it is part of a look, and therefore the interest and enthusiasm starts a lot earlier.
We now get people who love our jewellery, they may be teenagers, and whether they have access to it or not doesn’t matter - they still love it.
So, who knows where it can go but it’s definitely not standing still."
Looking back on your career, what do you know now that you wish you had known when you were starting out?
“I know almost everything now, there is of course always room for more, but I don’t really look back and think I wish I had known that because it’s part of how you progress.
We wouldn’t be the Stephen Webster that we are today had I not made all the mistakes and had all the experiences we had.
Some of it I am glad of - I had naivety and enthusiasm that was so unstoppable, always running up against something.
What I now enjoy is that I can pass on what I know through either the mentoring I do, or the people who work in the company because we aren’t starting from scratch.”
Stephen Webster MBE, photographed by Rankin.
What piece of jewellery that you’ve made is your favourite, and why?
“The Crystal Haze concept has never gone away.
We have just marked the 26th anniversary of something that, when it was first introduced, wasn’t readily accepted by the industry.
People weren’t interested because it didn’t tick the boxes to be considered ‘fine jewellery’.
“So even though the pieces were 18ct white gold with diamonds, the hero was this Crystal Haze which was something that was new.
Because it was new, that then opened up an opportunity among a crowd of people who weren’t traditional jewellery buyers.
People looked at fine jewellery that worked with their wardrobe or personality, it was a different statement to where jewellery had been prior to that.”
What advice would you pass on to our current jewellery and silversmithing students?
“I think you’re lucky you have made this choice and your position in it is up to you!
“We are in an industry where craft and skills will give you all the authenticity and credibility you need.
I can’t overemphasise the importance of studying or practicing or making that part of what you are as a jeweller.
It is so difficult nowadays to be recognised and acknowledged and find your place in the crowd if you’re not fully conversive in what it takes to make a piece of jewellery.”
To find out more about our jewellery and silversmithing degree, visit our course page , and to see more of Stephen Webster's amazing work, visit their instagram page, @stephenwebsterjewellery

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ma-ceramics:
Our Ceramics course thrives in the heart of a town with World Craft Town status, with UCA Farnham also home to the esteemed Craft Study Centre.
Guided by world-leading practitioners and frequently hosting guest speakers from the ceramics industry, our MA/MFA Ceramics degree course offers you unmatched insights and extensive networking opportunities.
What truly sets this course apart is the exceptional level of resources and facilities at your disposal.
Our team of highly qualified technicians possesses expertise spanning traditional ceramics techniques, including throwing, plaster work, and mould making, as well as cutting-edge technologies such as ceramic 3D printing and emerging techniques.
This comprehensive range of resources ensures that you are not only well-equipped but also encouraged to explore and innovate.
You will have the opportunity to showcase your creations through exhibitions and participation in international craft fairs and events.
This exposure not only builds your portfolio but also connects you with a global audience and potential collaborators.
Furthermore, this course boasts an outstanding track record of graduate success, with numerous award-winning students and academics emerging from our ranks.
Graduates also enjoy a high level of employability, thanks to our strong industry connections and a focus on practical, real-world skills that nurture talent and foster excellence.
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our MA/MFA Ceramics degree:
Also available part-time over two years.
The MA course is also available part-time over two years for student who do not require a visa to study in the UK.
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Ceramics students may be interested in.
Exploratory Practice This unit focuses upon the exploration of individual practice.
You will develop your practice into a means of inquiry – investigating the potential of skills, techniques, ideas and themes to analyse and interrogate approaches to practice.
Research Contexts Exploring the design, construction and expression of practice as a process of research, you will be introduced to critical research methodologies which you will employ in your independent research enquiries.
Reflective Practice This unit promotes rigorous self-critique and the subsequent progression of increasingly independent practice.
You will begin to interrogate your research and practice in a far greater depth with a view to constructing your specific Major Project proposal.
You will also consider modes of display, audience and the documentation of work in preparing you for the professional realisation of ideas.
Professional Contexts Focused on professional development, you will engage with opportunities and projects developed with partner organisations.
Through group work and individual research, you’ll establish and develop a sense of your position in relation to your identified subjects, interests and practice areas.
Major Project To conclude your studies, you will undertake a sustained, in-depth and critically informed research inquiry.
You will define your practice through your own work and an understanding of how it sits in relation to others — identified industries or professional contexts, collaborators and audiences.
The major project will culminate in a substantial body of work.
Advance Practice Should you choose to undertake the MFA route of this degree, you will spend this unit developing, extending and furthering your professional practice.
Through advance research methods, this unit will require you to demonstrate the skills, knowledge, confidence and originality that you have developed as a practitioner and researcher.
Through this unit you will be supported in preparing PhD applications, organising public events and seeking external platforms to work with professional contexts and engage audiences.
Our Farnham campus provides first-rate facilities with extensive workshops and equipment to support your study.
This includes, a throwing room with wet and dry stores, hand building studio space and plaster workshop, glaze room with application equipment and Kiln room for gas, electric and reduction firing.
It's also home to our Crafts Study Centre - a purpose-built museum, research centre and gallery dedicated to crafts.
As part of this course, you'll have access to well-established industry connections.
Our course will equip you with a host of valuable and transferable skills.
Upon successful completion, you might decide to become a self-employed artist, or forge a career within the craft and design industries.
Recent graduates work as:
"My time at UCA was really great; the diversity of expertise amongst both staff and students was very thought-provoking and encouraged experimentation, which the fantastic facilities made possible."
Ros Perton

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ma-glass:
From the practical to the whimsical, the time-honoured to the cutting-edge, our MA Glass course at UCA Farnham gives you the freedom, facilities and inspiration to create the pieces you most want to make.
You will come to this course armed with your own skillset in glass work.
Through rigorous research, practical and theoretical investigation, you will build on this to fully realise your signature style, preparing you to work at the forefront of your craft.
Taught alongside our Ceramics and Jewellery courses, this course offers you the chance to benefit from the insight, experience and knowledge of your tutors as well as leading specialist designers, artists and crafts experts from across disciplines.
Our Farnham campus provides extraordinary facilities, with extensive workshops and equipment to support your studies.
It's also home to the Crafts Study Centre - a purpose-built museum, research centre and gallery dedicated to crafts.
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our MA/MFA Glass degree:
This course includes a year-long preparatory course of study to ready you for your Masters in the UK, developing your specialist knowledge, research skills and confidence in working alone.
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Glass students may be interested in.
Exploratory Practice In this unit you’ll develop your practice into a means of inquiry – investigating the potential of skills, techniques, ideas and themes to analyse and interrogate approaches to practice.
You will begin to interrogate your research and practice in a far greater depth with a view to constructing a specific Major Project proposal.
Professional Contexts Focused on professional development, you will engage with professional contexts through opportunities and projects developed with partner organisations.
Through group work and individual research, you will establish and develop a sense of your position in relation to your identified subjects, interests and practice areas.
We are one of only a few UK universities with a glass workshop, including: hotshop for glass blowing; ladle casting and centrifuging; polishing and engraving machinery.
We have extensive cutting, finishing and grinding workshops with grit blasting and engraving facilities, and plaster, gelflex and wax rooms for mould making.
Room: R08
Our course has excellent links with industry specialists, and can assist with the provision of work placements.
This course will equip you with a host of valuable and transferable skills.
Upon successful completion, you might decide to become a self-employed artist or forge a career within the craft and design industries, for example.
"The UCA experience was inspiring and the expertise of the tutors combined with the superior facilities created the perfect environment for creative expression and experimentation.
After graduating I returned to the studio fuelled with new ideas and the courage to realise my designs."
Bruce Marks
Ali Jarvis, MA Glass, UCA Farnham
Catherine Dunstan, MA Glass, UCA Farnham
Pratibha Mistry, MA Glass, UCA Farnham
Steph Harper, MA Glass, UCA Farnham
Helen Restorick, MA Glass, UCA Farnham
Irina Prolygina, MA Glass, UCA Farnham
Christina Dembinska, MA Glass, UCA Farnham
Disha Seth, MA Glass, UCA Farnham

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ba-jewellery-silversmithing:
Learn through making, using a wide range of materials
Supportive academic framework as you carve your own style
Famous alumni include Stephen Webster MBE, Kyosun Jung and Miriam Hanid
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our BA (Hons) Jewellery & Silversmithing degree:
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Jewellery & Silversmithing students may be interested in.
Course talk with Debra Allman
Launch For launch week we’ll introduce you to the term and year, review your summer project, undertake research visits, and undertake cross-programme activities with students on BA (Hons) Ceramics & Glass.
Maker and Materials Become familiar and confident within the studio and workshop environment, undertake visual and contextual research and explore the act of making through materials and processes as a key skill.
Opportunity Your Opportunity week features an introduction to the term, research visits, inductions and cross-programme activities with Ceramics & Glass students.
3D CAD Cam Extending your understanding for the potential of digital technology in the design and manufacturing process, this unit covers 3D computer-aided design (CAD) application.
Opportunity Your Opportunity Week will include a term introduction, project planning session, a project briefing, a personalised learning session and cross-programme activities with Ceramics & Glass students.
ATOM Activities and PLE Digital Outcome These units are an extension of the Year 1 ATOM Activities and PLE Digital Outcome.
Major Project: Realisation You’ll frame your individual Jewellery/Silversmithing practice and realise a self-initiated, major project, which reflects individual potential.
We have specialist jewellery and silversmithing facilities, which include a new refurbished jewellery studio and hammer room, an enamelling room, casting area and associated machine rooms.
In addition, there is a ceramic area, glass area, wood workshop and hot metal workshop.
Room: B26
Room: B25B
This room contains hammers and formers.
Room: B27
Room: B08
Room: B21
This room contains a donkey saw and a metal guillotine.
We enjoy close links with a range of professional organisations who are able to benefit our students in the form of bursaries, awards, seminars and competitions.
As well as overseas opportunities with Study Abroad placements or the additional International Year of study as an option, a European study trip is organised each year and is open to all year groups.
Our graduates have progressed to a variety of professional roles, including:
"I chose to study at UCA because the course put value on the process of creating jewellery pieces and the University had produced many well-known, world-class artists and designers.
I felt that UCA was where I would be able to learn traditional skills and digital craft abilities at the same time."
Seongeun Kim
View Jewellery & Silversmithing portfolio advice

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ma-jewellery:
UCA’s Jewellery design course offers you a unique opportunity to add depth and breadth to your jewellery-making and design practice, as well as your research skills.
This course is based at UCA Farnham, where top-class facilities and a culture of craft collide.
As a project-led and studio-based course with close tutorial guidance, it is suited to highly motivated and talented people who want to work at the forefront of their creative discipline.
Rigorous research will encourage you to explore a wide range of approaches, from traditional to contemporary influences, within art, craft, design and technology.
You will be taught by leading specialist designers, artists and crafts experts, creating a range of objects and experimenting with different materials and processes to develop your creative thinking and create bespoke pieces for exhibition or display in-person.
Your ideas and opportunities will be unrestricted, and we encourage you to enhance your own creative journey through practice and theoretical learning.
Throughout the course, you’ll work closely alongside students from other fields such as textiles, ceramics, metalwork and glass.
This will enable you to broaden your knowledge and incorporate elements from various disciplines into your own practice, ensuring your final project is tailored to your desired audience and is a reflection of your own personal journey on the MA course.
Our Farnham campus offers extraordinary facilities, with extensive workshops and equipment to support your study.
It's also home to the Crafts Study Centre – a purpose-built museum, research centre and gallery dedicated to crafts.
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our MA/MFA Jewellery degree:
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Jewellery students may be interested in.
This course has excellent support from:
Upon successful completion, you might decide to become a self-employed artist, or forge a career within the craft and design industries, for example.
"The facilities at UCA were great and allowed me to experiment with a variety of creative techniques.
I also really enjoyed the multi-disciplinary course structure and I found that bouncing my ideas off people whose specialities differed from mine was really mind-opening."
Tom McDowell

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/facilities-resources/artmaker-studios:
Based at UCA Canterbury, the Artmaker Studios are where tradition meets technology.
These workshops champion collaborative creation, offering space for artists, researchers and tech enthusiasts work together, sharing tools, techniques and visions.
The studios are designed to inspire and equip creators of all levels, featuring a range of specialist spaces that include the Painting Workshop, Plaster Room, Kiln Room, Photography Studio, Fine Art Studio, and Wood Workshop.
Each space is tailored to cater to the unique needs of artists and creators, acting as a hive for groundbreaking artistic endeavours and innovations.
Room: CO.07
Room: CL.06
This workshop contains morso machines, underpinners, benching and storage.
Room: DO.14
Room: CO.10
This room contains benching and storage for the sculpture studio.
Room: CO.11
This room contains a kilns, storage and a potters wheel.
Room: CO.18

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/facilities-resources/ceramic-studios:
The Ceramics Studios are designed for students, academics and external craftspeople to explore, create, and innovate in a space tailored to their needs.
Featuring a kiln room and studios with slab-rolling bench and jigger-jolly machine for pottery production.
A 5ft kiln offers space to experiment with ambitious, large-scale ceramic works.
A full range of ceramic processes are available, supported by expert staff, including slip casting, press moulding, slab building, glazing, decals and mould-making.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/facilities-resources/culture-labs:
Culture Labs are dedicated to exploring the territories of art and design.
Sound engineers, musicians, and researchers collaborate, exploring new frontiers in auditory experiences.
Creative spaces and galleries foster collaborative research.
The exhibition spaces features expansive, well-lit areas with adjustable lighting, making them ideal venues for exhibitions, art shows and private viewings.
We encourage artists, researchers, and thinkers to come together in these dynamic spaces to innovate new ways of artistic expression.
Campus: Canterbury, Epsom & Farnham
Campus: Farnham
Campus: Canterbury
Campus: Epsom
This large acting space include a stage and a full AV/PA system.
It is also used as the SU dance floor in the evenings.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/facilities-resources/design-digital-workshops:
Our extensive Design & Digital Workshops are cutting-edge hubs designed to foster innovation and creativity in the digital realm.
Housing a host of industry-standard digital equipment including Zund plotter/cutters, laser engravers and a 4-Axis CNC milling machine.
We also have 3D printers, 3D scanners, CAD and Arduino stations.
Based at UCA Farnham, the hackSpace is a high-performance environment enabling students to learn, explore, experiment, invent, innovate and transform 2D into 3D – bringing ideas to life using the latest technologies.
Explore the studios with our Glass Technician
Room: B28/229
Full AV and projector screens available.
Room: B30
Room: R01B/C
Room: R03
Room: R09
Room: R14
Room: R18
Room: R33
Room: R128

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/facilities-resources/elemental-craftworks-studios:
Situated at the heart of England’s first World Craft Town, UCA Farnham offers industry-standard Elemental Craftworks Studios packed with specialist equipment.
The studio space encompasses a range of facilities, including the Cutting Machines, Jewellery Workshop, Plaster Workshop, Wax and Gelflex Workshop, Metal Cutting Workshop, and the Hammer Room.
Featuring state-of-the-art equipment and spacious, well-lit work areas, our Elemental Craftworks Studios provide the perfect environment to hone your craft.
Room: B07
Room: R06
This workshop contains wax melters, wax reclaimers and an extraction booth.
Room: B34
This room contains sewing machines and industrial sewing machines.
Room: B22
Room: B22A

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/facilities-resources/letterpress-studio:
The letterpress studio is equipped with traditional printing presses, an extensive collection of typefaces, high-quality inks, and a variety of fine papers.
Whether you’re a student, academic or local creator, you’ll enjoy a hands-on environment where the art of letterpress printing is practiced and perfected, allowing for the creation of beautifully crafted, tactile prints.
Letterpress Studio

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2025/students-win-awards-at-jewellery-oscars:
Talented jewellery students from University for the Creative Arts (UCA) have received prestigious awards at the annual Goldsmiths’ Craft & Design Council competition, affectionately known as the ‘Jewellery Oscars’.
06 March 2025
Coming from UCA’s partner institution in China, Xiamen University, Jingchen Zhang is now studying MA Jewellery.
She won a Silver Award in the Conceptual Jewellery 2D Design category with her entry, The Portable Extension Frame , a concept that transforms stains on clothes into art.
Jingchen designed a frame, which can be fastened with a magnet onto stained garments that surrounds and preserves the imperfection.
The frames come in various materials and styles, letting the wearer choose a frame that complements their style, making each stain an intentional and personal expression.
She said: “I often find myself staining my clothes but also notice that these stains sometimes create beautiful colours and textures.
This led me to wonder whether they could be preserved and appreciated in a new way.
This curiosity shaped the concept of my work, where I explore the idea of capturing and transforming these accidental marks into meaningful jewellery .”
Céline Munisso, who is in her final year of BA (Hons) Jewellery & Silversmithing at UCA, won Bronze in the 3D Craft Junior Modellers category with her entry ‘ Untuk Ho-ting ’ a Malaysian word meaning ‘for the casque’.
“Being awarded in this category is very special to me because it’s the field I am most interested in and explore through my practice.
It is very reassuring, and I feel honoured to be recognised and awarded for my passion.
This has now motivated me even more to push forward in this direction,” said Céline.
Her work has been inspired by the sombre narrative of the Rhinoceros Hornbill, Malaysia’s national bird.
Sadly, it is hunted for its casque, feathers and meat, to use in traditional medicine, as food or in costumes as well as their habitat threatened by deforestation.
Céline aimed to capture the bird’s serene beauty and spark curiosity and wonder.
She intricately carved the bird and inside its belly sits a baroque pearl.
Her design also uses Anjun wood, which is native to the bird’s natural habitat.
Lastly, Michael Bousfield, also studying BA Jewellery & Silversmithing, won Silver in the Junior Chasers category, for his design ‘Who Nose’.
As well as UCA’s talented current students, there was also success for UCA’s alumni community.
Suzanne Seed, who gradu ated in 2015, won Silver in the 2D Design category; Rachael Plassard, who graduated in 2024, won Silver in the Mixed Metals & Patina category; and Grace Honeybull, was also recognised at the awards ceremony.
To learn more about studying Jewellery & Silversmithing at UCA, visit its course pages.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2024/buy-from-emerging-artisans-this-christmas:
From jewellers to fine artists, the University for the Creative Arts (UCA) has some amazingly talented emerging makers who have made the perfect gifts for your loved ones this Christmas – and we’ve compiled a list of our favourites.
04 December 2024
Made with imagination and skill, these unique gifts will stand out from the crowd, plus you’ll be supporting independent crafters and their small businesses.
Taking inspiration from the sea, Evie Mae works sustainably, incorporating recycled silver and foraged sea glass into her exquisite designs.
Buy from Etsy JewelsbyEvieMae
Lily Robinson works in clay and glass, designing pots and functional items that are handmade and thrown on a potter’s wheel and would be a beautiful decorative addition to any home.
For commissions, contact Lily on Instagram @ceramic.lily
Experimenting with resin has led Abby Peacock to create some eye-catching slates, which are a unique addition to the home.
They can be used as coasters or chopping boards and are inspired by the sea.
Buy from Instagram @itsabreeze_jewellery
Talented fine artist, Lilly Turnbull Sharp, creates cheerful and affordable Christmas cards in a mixture of styles that include lino print, gouache, and pen.
Each one is slightly different meaning that no one card is the same.
Buy from Instagram @lilly.arthub101
By playing around with different colour combinations, Heike Nwagbo experiments with gel prints to create unique artworks of texture and layers that give aesthetic pleasure.
Buy from Instagram @happygelprintart
Applying her artistic talent to animal portraiture, Erin brings a pet’s personality to life by taking a favourite photograph and recreating it in custom oil paintings and drawings that capture their unique spirit.
For commissions , contact Erin on Instagram @effervescent.artistry
Creating multi-coloured and multi-textured handmade stained glass Autumnal leaves and mushrooms, fine artist Madeline Green takes inspiration from woodland walks and the cosy season.
Buy from Instagram @maddies.creative

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2024/winning-card-design-on-sale-nationwide:
A student from the University for the Creative Arts in Farnham has designed a birthday card that will go on sale nationwide at selected BP M&S Simply Food sites.
20 March 2024
Claire and her winning design on sale at BP’s M&S Simply Food store in Farnham.
The selected design was one of 60 submissions to a brief set for UCA’s first-year graphic design students by Farnham-based company Card Connection (part of UK Greetings), which chose Claire Brown, now a second-year BA (Hons) Graphic Design student, as the overall winner.
“I was excited and shocked that they chose my design,” said Claire.
“Having my work in the public domain gives me a sense of pride.”
Card Connection’s brief tasked students with creating a birthday card for people aged between 25 and 50 years, with the word ‘birthday’ on the front.
Kelly Courtenay, Card Connection’s Creative Director, said: “We were so pleased when UCA approached us about setting a live brief for the students, it’s been great to be able to support new talent.
“What attracted us to Claire’s design was that it felt like it was doing something different, which is what we wanted to bring to our range by using an emerging designer with a fresh take, and a student’s viewpoint.
We looked to the next generation of designers to bring something edgy and alternative to our range yet was also something we felt confident with and would offer commercial appeal.”
For her winning design, she combined a love of working with her hands - creating a bold paint streak effect on the card - with the use of digital editing software to enhance it and overlay gold-foiled lettering.
Claire, who is 33 and works part-time in the construction industry, added: “Being a mature student felt like I was starting on the back foot, with everyone else in their early twenties.
Having my design picked through the live brief has given me a confidence boost – I now have this on my CV.
“It was great to tackle a brief from an actual company – it showed us how they work, and what we can expect when we start working in the industry.”
Claire, who is known among her family for choosing the nicest cards, is keen to work in the design industry in the future and finds creating a physical product and working in a more traditional way more rewarding and aligned to her skill set.
“Lots of people at university work digitally, but I prefer to do things by hand, in an analogue way - like screen printing or lino cutting - so creating a card in my style has helped me develop that,” she said.
Summing up Card Connection’s experience of working with UCA, Kelly said: “Working with the students went very smoothly.
We were thrilled with the designs; there was such a mixture of approaches, which gave us lots to discuss.
We were so impressed with what everyone had done that it was tough to narrow it down!”
Claire’s winning design will now go on sale at selected M&S Simply Food sites at BP garages across the UK.
Follow Claire on Instagram @ebrowncreative

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2024/fungi-themed-jewellery-wins-craft-prize:
Jewellery that showcases the early growth of fungi has earned a University for the Creative Arts (UCA) student Gold at the annual Goldsmiths’ Craft & Design Council competition.
18 March 2024
Jingchen Zhang, in her third year of a BA (Hons) Jewellery & Silversmithing course, won Gold in the Conceptual Jewellery 2D Design category with her entry, The Portable Fungus Farm – a concept that lets the wearer watch the growth process of mushrooms.
“I was very happy when I won the award ,” she said.
“ This is a highly regarded competition in the UK and as a jewellery design student , i t not only recognises my ability but proves I have the appropriate strengths to help me find a job in the future.”
The idea stems from a documentary that Jingchen watched , called Fantastic Funghi , which inspired her to cross-pollinate jewellery with mushroom cultivation .
The Portable Fungus Farm comprises an outer shell made from mycelium, which degrades naturally within 30-90 days , and a central window , which allows the wearer to watch mushroom growth up close, encouraging a closer connection to nature and our environment.
“The non-plant and animal growth patterns of fungi fascinate me,” explained Jingchen.
“I envisioned a kind of on-the-go mushroom farm that would allow me to spend time with mushrooms.
“I see this as both my favourite accessory and a way to show people the unique beauty of fungi, which is exactly what I set out to do with this creation.”
Through her research, Jingchen explored the mycelial networks that exist between funghi, which she sees mirrored through the social networks in human society.
It is this symbiotic relationship, as well as a time for reflection, which she seeks to bring to life through her concept.
Coming from UCA’s partner institution in China, Xiamen University, Jingchen previously planned to return to China after her course, but since winning the award she’s now considering staying in the UK – with the relevant visa – to get work experience in the industry.
She added: “I found that the jewellery programme encouraged students to actively experiment and practice their creativity.
UCA's teaching philosophy is in line with my learning needs, and the educational atmosphere here makes me feel at home.
I am convinced that I have come to an ideal learning environment.”

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2024/emerging-designers-make-rising-stars-shortlist:
Five Master’s students and graduates from the University for the Creative Arts (UCA) are among the nominees for Rising Stars 2024, a celebration of emerging makers in crafts, design, and applied arts.
29 February 2024
Rachael Plassard, Jess Skelton, Choi Chi Wing, Suluk Khalvati and Taylor Shaw were picked alongside 27 others from more than 160 entrants.
MA Jewellery graduate Rachael has a maximalist approach to design, and weaves personal narratives and symbolism into her work, currently exploring the theme of memory: the gradual fade, disruption, fragility, and power.
She layer s up decorative surfaces and combining various techniques, including etching, roller printing, gold plating and oxidising.
Also studying MA Jewellery, Sul uk’s collection – The Snail’s Orientation to Life – was inspired by the revolutionary movement taking place in Iran.
Through a fluidity of design and the properties of metal, Suluk emphasises femininity and humanity’s struggle to pursue freedom.
From MA Ceramics, graduate Jess makes semi-abstract sculptures that start life as vessels, using glaze as structure and surface decoration.
She is attracted to what lies beneath the shiny veneers in society and draws on her maritime heritage, incorporating found objects relating to the sea.
Meanwhile, Chinese student Choi Chi Wing explores the struggles of leaving a hometown and building a second home through her ceramics .
Their feelings around connection and disconnection are expressed through form, colour, and texture.
Taylor, another recent graduate of the MA Ceramics course, makes hand-thrown functional tableware and contemporary vessels – sculpted and glazed by hand.
Her piece, the Broken Chain reflects strength and fragility and explores feelings surrounding grief and familial bonds.
All five were chosen by a panel of craft professionals, including UCA’s Programme Director for Textiles, Sharon Ting, Dan Goode of Making Goode, and Dr Outi Remes, the Director of New Ashgate Gallery.
Sharon said: “I was delighted to see such a breadth of applications to this year’s open call and reassured by the entrepreneurial and innovative design on display.
It is good to see strong, individual, aesthetic vision is alive and well among young designers today.”
An exhibition of the shortlisted finalists’ work takes place at New Ashgate Gallery from 16 March.
At a private view on 15 March, the winner will be awarded a £1,000 professional development award and a solo exhibition at New Ashgate in 2025.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2024/uca-makers-shine-prestigious-craft-prize:
UCA makers past and present are have been nominated for one of craft’s biggest prizes, and will have their work on show at Collect 2024.
09 February 2024
Monochromatic Fold VI situ by ©Steven Edwards
Glass duo Joshua Kerley and Guy Marshall-Brown and ceramic artist Steven Edwards, are two of the five finalists nominated for th e prestigious Brookfield Properties Craft Award , presented to a maker who has displayed significant technique, narrative, and vision in their practice.
Their works will be on show at the end of this month at Collect 2024 – the leading international art fair for contemporary craft and design.
“This year’s shortlist of artists is a testament to the originality and range of craft practice on show at Collect,” said Natalie Melton, Executive Director, Crafts Council.
Joshua & Guy
Joshua has worked at UCA for the past four years as a lecturer in glass and he met Guy, who is in his final year of his UCA PhD while studying for an MA in Ceramics and Glass at the R oyal C ollege of A rt .
Working collaboratively over the past two years, the duo are nominated for their progressive and experimental approach to kiln-formed glass, which uses a modular mould that is digitally designed and 3D - printed.
Josh ua and Guy enclose glass within these moulds and add a reactant, which makes the glass froth and swell to fill the void, creating exciting and often serendipitous sculptural objects with an un-glass-like aesthetic and an entirely new colour palette and texture.
Boolean X, 2022 by ©Joshua Kerley & Guy Marshall Brown
“This project started two years ago as a modest enquiry into the use of multi-part moulds within kiln-glass applications,” Josh ua and Guy said.
“It has grown into an exciting and fruitful collaborative practice that encourages us both to push the limitations of the process.
To have that recognised and be shortlisted for this prize is a great honour and something we could never have foreseen.”
With exhibitions at London Craft Week, the British Ceramics Biennial, and the London Design Festival, Steven has been making waves in the contemporary crafts scene since graduating with an MA in Ceramics in 2018, but this will be his first time at Collect.
Steven Edwards
His work explores the language and physicality of clay with a process-led approach to crafting sculptural artworks that uses traditional clay-making techniques, such as the pottery wheel, to create layered and woven forms.
“By pushing the boundaries of clay and chemistry, I uncover intriguing nuances, ” explained Steven.
“I view my practice as an ongoing journey of experimentation, aiming to prompt viewers to contemplate form, material, and placement within the field of contemporary ceramics.”
Steven acknowledges that the ceramic landscape is enjoying significant exposure now and is becoming increasingly recognised within the arts community and that’s a lot to do with the material itself – clay.
“There's a prevalent trend of experimentation, pushing the material beyond its conventional boundaries,” said Steven.
“Artists are capitalising on its inherent ability for immediate mark-making, enhancing its expressive potential.”
But he didn’t get to where he is today without putting in the groundwork.
Steven’s MA equipped him with knowledge and skills needed to pursue his career.
The knowledge exchange between fellow practitioners, dedicated time for hands-on experimentation, and exposure to professional practices allowed Steven to explore his connection to clay and develop his unique style.
The winner will be announced on 28 February at Collect.
The prize package will be equivalent to £65,000, including having their work acquired by Brookfield Properties and then later donated to the Crafts Council Collection and a solo exhibition at two of their properties this summer.
'Shift' by ©Ashley Howard
Also showing his new work at Collect, is Ashley Howard, UCA senior lecturer in ceramics.
His work with clay takes him closer to the potter’s wheel, with a more intimate look at the role drawing plays in making as well as research into the work of composer John Cage.
Ashley will show two pieces of work, Event and Shift .
Both are a combination of white earthenware clay and red reclaimed clay fired to high temperatures.
Collect 2024 is open to the public from 1 – 3 March, follow @collectartfair
To learn more about studying crafts at UCA, visit the website.
Follow @ashleyhowardceramics @joshuakerleymaker @guymarshallbrown @stevenedwardsceramics

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2023/uca-partners-with-african-film-festival:
The University for the Creative Arts (UCA) and the African International Film Festival (AFRIFF) are thrilled to announce a dynamic partnership committed to nurturing talent and providing opportunities for aspiring filmmakers to thrive.
01 November 2023
This collaboration will include short courses, masterclasses, exchanges of academic and technical staff, exchanges of students and study abroad programmes, collaborative research, and developmental projects and much more.
AFRIFF is a vital platform for both seasoned and emerging filmmakers on the African continent.
The annual festival showcases the very best in African cinema, providing a space for filmmakers to connect, learn, and exhibit their work.
AFRIFF aims to further empower African filmmakers by offering them access to world-class training and expertise via partner organisations such as UCA.
For over a century UCA has been committed to nurturing creative talent and being at the forefront higher education's arts provision.
Across its UK campuses UCA offers exceptional courses in film and television production, animation, visual effects, and more.
Their focus on fostering innovation and creativity aligns with AFRIFF's mission to promote and celebrate African cinema.
As part of this exciting partnership, UCA will be attending the 12 th edition of AFRIFF festival in Lagos from the 5 to 11 November 2023.
UCA would be offering Masterclasses in New technologies in the Film industry and Comparing the Pan African, please register by visiting www.afriff.com .
These courses will cover topics such as screenwriting, directing, cinematography, editing, and sound design.
Participants will have the unique opportunity to learn from our Programme Director in the School of Film and gain valuable insight into the technical and creative processes involved in filmmaking.
On top of this, the recently concluded script-to-screen classes have allowed 30 select participants to bring their creative visions to life, receiving guidance from experienced mentors throughout the entire filmmaking process.
This hands-on experience has equipped participants with the necessary skills to navigate the complexities of the industry and realize their artistic ambitions.
Through this partnership, UCA hopes to contribute to the growth and development of African cinema and inspire a new generation of storytellers in the process.
To learn more about the African international Film Festival and their work supporting African filmmakers, visit the AFRIFF website .

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2023/academic-completes-major-nhs-arts-commission:
A leading academic at the University for the Creative Arts (UCA) has completed a major public arts commission for NHS England’s newest hospital building in Brighton.
25 October 2023
Calm by Sharon Ting
Sharon Ting, Programme Director for Textiles at UCA, has designed and produced work for The Sanctuary, a contemplative space within The Louisa Martindale Buildin g that supports the human, emotional, and spiritual needs of all who use the hospital.
She was selected by CONNECT , the public art programme for the redevelopment of the Royal Sussex County Hospital , and was given a brief to use art to create new links between the hospital, city, county, and community by celebrating the unique character and culture of Brighton and Sussex.
Sharon said: “I wanted to approach the brief to upscale my practi c e, create work that combines craft with new technology and work within a new industry.
Working sustainably, outsourcing fabrication, and collaborating with specialist manufacturers was my aim.
”
Seating area designed by Sharon Ting
Within The Sanctuary, Sharon created a bespoke altar, backlit textile lightbox, glazed textile screens framing the view to the sea from the sixth floor of the building and a contemplative wall mural , which was made in collaboration withUCA alumni , photographer Marc Burden.
“What initially inspired my concept were family visits to our ancestral shrine at the limestone temples, Sam Poh Tong in Ipoh, Malaysia,” she said .
“And being inspired by Walter Benjamin in ‘ The work of art in the age of mechanical reproduction’ .
“One of my favourite pieces are the textile glass panels because this work achieves what I set out to do; to elevate textiles and position in key focal areas of densely populated public buildings and to extend the lifespan of the artwork in situ.
Textiles are underused in public spaces as they are prone to rapid deteriorate but textiles can add living qualities to stark environments that no other material can.”
Patients and staff have already commented on how much better they feel for visiting the space.
As well as working with Marc Burden Photography, Sharon collaborated with Proto Glass Studios, Orto Print Studios, the London Display Company, and VGL to bring the vision to life.
“Collaboration was key to the development of this commission, and I advocate this approach to my students and team at UCA.
We are so fortunate that we work in a vibrant community of creatives where the potential to collaborate exists , ” she said.
Sharon Ting and Marc Burden
To learn more about Sharon’s work, visit the NHS website.
Sharon thanks the commissioners, Willis Newson.
Jane Newson and Emily Malin and Brighton & Hove Hospital Trust and the Chaplain team.
Calm by Sharon Ting- These beautiful floor-to-ceiling glass panels in front of the window enhance and frame the view of the sea.
The panels cast subtle colour reflections and textured shadows to create a soothing and calm atmosphere.
The hand-made textiles encapsulated within them bring a soft, tactile element to the Sanctuary.
Reflection by Marc Burden & Sharon Ting - This series of photographs of the Brighton horizon taken at different times of the day invites patients, carers, visitors and staff to reflect by writing messages, thoughts, and memories on cards which they can then place on the shelf underneath the artwork.
Contemplation by Sharon Ting - The delicate hand-made textile encased in a backlit wall-mounted box sits behind the altar, containing with interchangeable liturgical themed hand-made textiles, to delineate and honour an area for quiet contemplation.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/campuses/epsom/wells-building:
A new centre for fashion education in the heart of Epsom.
The Wells provides tailored teaching studios and spaces, workshops and break-out areas, BUT most importantly, a new space in which you can create.
Located on Church Street, The Wells is less than a 10-minute walk from the main Epsom campus on Ashley Road.
We have a couple of videos to show the way via Worple Road or the Town Centre and there’s also a map below.
The Wells address: 3-13 Church Street, Epsom, KT17 4PF Please note that there is no parking at The Wells, apart from disabled parking.
Travelling to campus by car?
Learn more about parking at UCA Epsom .
This remodelled and purpose-built space, will be the home to some of the courses in the School of Fashion & Textiles and the Business School for the Creative Industries.
Check out the latest catwalk show from Epsom’s fashion students

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ba-fashion-atelier:
The only course of its kind, you'll develop the highest levels of skills
Practical and hands-on, you'll be making garments from week one
Graduates go on to work for major fashion houses, including Burberry
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our BA (Hons) Fashion Atelier degree:
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Fashion Atelier students may be interested in.
UCA at Graduate Fashion Week
Study Fashion Atelier at UCA
Alaa talks about studying Fashion Atelier
Guest Speakers’ Series You’ll join students across the School of Fashion & Textiles for our Industry Guest Speakers’ Series – you’ll hear from people with diverse backgrounds, skills and career paths representing the diversity of our student community, to inspire you to kick-start your thinking about your own career journey.
Atelier principles You’ll learn to understand the relationship between the fit, silhouette and balance of a finished sample garment, and how that relates to the successful alignment of the correct pattern to body shape and the right fabric selection for the design.
In this unit, you’ll learn pattern cutting and production principles, develop critical thinking skills alongside your creative and technical practice and practice your visual communication through traditional drawing methods digital media and photography.
Equality, Diversity and Inclusion - Creative Identities You’ll develop your awareness and understanding of equality, diversity and inclusion, and promote progressive values and attitudes in creative practice.
Contour & structure You’ll practice basic boning and corsetry skills to realise both the silhouette and functionality of a complex and highly structured garment for an international celebrity client.
The development of your design responses for this unit will need to address both the interior and the exterior of the garments you conceptualise.
Your portfolio will be underpinned through digital and traditional drawing skills, extensive customer profiling, thematic research and digital visual communication skills.
Contextual research will expand your knowledge of past and present professional practice by investigating themes of body modification, and the shaping of the body in different historical contexts as well as the cult of “The Celebrity”.
Hackathon In your first Opportunity Week, you’ll work with others on a high-intensity project.
You’ll use a new piece of software or equipment to familiarise yourself with the technology that is becoming ubiquitous in the industry.
For instance, you may be asked to design a website, an Instagram filter, an avatar, a virtual garment or digital prints.
Atelier processes You’ll work collaboratively in a design team to create a sample range of shirts and trousers.
Your team will also create its own digital branding and business plan for bringing your product to market.
You’ll research the last 200 to 300 years of costume history to add context to your creative and technical thinking.
You may also wish to address an aspect of sustainability e.g.
through your business model or your fabric selection.
Your team vision will be presented collaboratively through a combination of traditional drawing and digital visual communication techniques at a group presentation.
Fashion and cultural memory You’ll explore methods used in the heritage sector by museum, costume and fashion professionals, to analyse objects and use a range of traditional visual, digital and written skills to communicate and utilise the findings successfully.
You will be taught how to analyse and record findings for different types of artefacts using observational skills, archival resources, technical sampling or testing and applying basic material culture theory.
Business of Fashion You’ll be introduced to the fundamental principles of fashion business and practices through a global lens.
You’ll learn about how the macro environment affects the fashion industry sector and consumer groups and how it operates, introducing you to the various market levels and sectors, as well as industry structure, supply chain, distribution, marketing and commercialisation of products and services to end users.
Career Week You’ll start the second year with an intensive, interactive career preparation week.
It prepares you for your work placement, through preparing your CV and cover letters, developing personal branding on professional social networks, networking and interview preparation.
Bespoke tailoring You’ll develop your ability to use informed research, design and technical processes to apply to the cut, fit, balance and finish in the development of contemporary bespoke tailoring.
As well as developing your understanding of details and finishing touches based on historic practice, such as buttons and buttonholes, you will also examine the inner workings of the jacket: canvases, felts, seam tapes and generations-old methods of pressing and hand sewing.
By doing so you will expand your vocabulary of product development processes, as well as both flat and three-dimensional pattern cutting, to further inform your understanding of atelier practice skills.
Reflective Practitioner You’ll have the opportunity to explore global perspectives and influences on creative practice, drawing upon interactions with varied identities, cultures, politics, and histories.
You’ll reflect on the development of their own creative influences, perspectives, practices, and sense of belonging as developing creative professionals in global and contemporary spaces.
Dragon's Den Have you ever watched Dragon’s Den on the BBC?
Have you ever dreamed of being one of the contestants?
Have you got a business idea?
Now is your chance to become the next big fashion and textiles entrepreneur.
You’ll work in multi-disciplinary teams to prepare a short business plan, a prototype and pitch their ideas to a panel of industry judges.
The Flou Studio The drape and behaviour of cloth plays a key role within the creative cutting processes for this specialist unit.
You’ll focus on “soft sewing,” where traditionally crepe de chine, georgette, mousseline, lace and other fragile or unstructured fabrics are used.
They are notoriously hard to work with, but you will learn to handle these fabrics successfully as a core Atelier skill.
You’ll be expected to research the work of relevant historical and contemporary designers to identify and utilise all types of bias cutting, and fabric manipulation approaches to support the transition from 2D to 3D forms.
The Flou Contextualised The bias cutting techniques of Madame Vionnet and the fabric manipulation techniques of Madame Gres have been a rich source of inspiration for contemporary designers all over the world, so understanding and experimenting with their working methodologies will underpin the core technical delivery of this unit.
You’ll be expected to research their body of work along with other relevant historical and contemporary designers to identify and utilise all types of bias cutting and fabric manipulation approaches to support the transition from two dimensional to three dimensional forms.
Flou will also be contextualized through feminist theory and body politics.
Placement You’ll have the opportunity to undertake one of two options on this unit – a four-week minimum self-initiated work placement that’s relevant to your potential career direction or complete an industry case study which gives you the opportunity to study an aspect of the industry, that you identify as an area of interest, through the method of case study research.
For both, you will record, critically analyse and evaluate your findings through a learning journal and present them in your learning journal and a professionally structured Placement or Case Study Report.
Elective - Business Start-up In this unit, you will identify, develop and present a design, product, service or mini collection using your previous unit outcomes as a starting point for your start up idea/ proof of concept.
You’ll be required to research market trends, explore cultural, ethical and sustainable considerations, and look your idea’s brand identity and promotional plans.
You’ll also be required to work out a specification sheet and budget plan.
Elective - Product Styling and e-Commerce In the fast-paced world of e-commerce, product imagery and styling are a crucial tool in driving sales.
In this short-sharp portfolio-enhancing unit, you’ll produce a range of e-commerce shots and accompanying documentation (style numbers, materials, etc) for a specified brand and product of your choice.
Elective - Digital Fashion The creation of virtual worlds in fashion is becoming more and more popular.
In this unit you’ll stretch your own understanding of your practical skills through the digital enhancement of images of the face through creation of avatars, from designing the skin to impressions of facial accessories.
Elective - Global Fashion Cultures You’ll be introduced to the landscape of current academic research in Global Fashion Cultures and explore the ways in which fashion exerts behavioural, economic, environmental, political and social change in different geographical historical and contemporary contexts.
Elective - Fashion Film Taking the technical and conceptual understanding you’ve developed, you’ll have the chance to work collaboratively on a resolved Fashion Film.
A fast-paced unit, this brings together multiple skill sets in a controlled environment and perfectly reflects the commercial environment that you may be working in after graduation.
Elective - Design for Print Many of our best-known designers have been inspired by examples of historical textiles.
In this unit, we will introduce you to historical examples of prints and heritage textile objects from around the world, from our very own International Textile Study Collection, and learn about the current trends and colour forecasts in textiles/print.
Project pitch Your final year begins with a project pitch week.
This is your opportunity to share ideas that you will have developed over the summer about your degree project, receive feedback and finetune it before you start actively working on it as part of your last year at university.
Portfolio & career Good portfolio skills are as essential in day-to-day Atelier practice as they are in the pursuit of acquiring employment as a confident creative and technical professional.
In this unit you will bring together key elements of your studio practice and individual vision that demonstrate your understanding and insight into the formation of a successful visual narrative.
You will have the opportunity to further develop, refine and consolidate the work produced in this unit through the Realisation & Portfolio unit in term two, as you work towards building your final exit profile in preparation for employment or postgraduate study.
Product development You’ll extend and consolidate the core atelier practice skills developed over your first and second year, through engagement with in-depth design and product development processes.
The exploration and craft of draping, cutting and constructing defined silhouettes and details, will allow you to express your creative and technical intentions.
This will lead to the production of a cohesive body of work that articulates a forward-thinking design attitude across a range of considered styles, which will subsequently form the material proposition for your graduate collection developed in term two.
Graduate Career Fair The Graduate Career Fair takes place during the first week of your second term to help your job search as you prepare for life after graduation.
Companies that are actively hiring in your sector will be present to give you information about them, the kind of candidates they are looking for and their hiring process.
Realisation & portfolio This unit will provide you with the opportunity to verify and articulate your understanding of atelier practice skills through the realisation of an atelier collection finished to the highest standards.
Working in parallel to the three-dimensional realisation, your collection will be supported by the creation of a professional portfolio.
With a clear focus on consolidating, refining and expressing your technical, creative and contextual learning developed throughout the first term, this Realisation & Portfolio unit is also aimed at helping you to engineer your exit profile and in doing so prepare you for your future career.
This course has a purpose-built studio space at The Wells - a new addition to complement our main campus and re-modelled to specifically enhance students' learning experience.
On campus there are also screen printing facilities and photographic studios with professional quality lighting rigs.
Our Fashion Atelier course at UCA has strong links with the industry, with students collaborating on projects for fashion companies including Ted Baker and Hardy Amies, and participating in high-profile competitions with organisations such as the British Fashion Council.
Our industry links are particularly valuable for the placement module in Year 2, which offers you the chance to gain authentic industry experience.
We enjoy particularly close connections with companies such as:
These companies also regularly employ graduates from our Fashion Atelier course.
Our graduates secure a variety of design roles, including:
A number of our graduates have secured rewarding roles in industry areas such as:
Programme Director
Lecturer in Fashion Atelier (Technical Design 3D Development & Realisation)
Technical Tutor in Fashion Design Production
"I chose to study this course at UCA because of its combination of couture skills, pattern cutting and garment production.
I enjoyed the challenge of making beautifully finished garments, whilst focusing on minute details and high quality work"
Hannah Cooper
View Fashion Atelier portfolio advice

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ba-fashion-design:
Find your individual style along with advanced technical knowledge
Take part in live projects and placements
Opportunity to showcase work at Graduate Fashion Week
And, with opportunities to undertake a second-year work placement, connect with key players in the fashion industry, and showcase your work at events such as Graduate Fashion Week, we’ll help you fashion a great career.
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our BA (Hons) Fashion Design degree:
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Fashion Design students may be interested in.
Fashion Design with Veronique Israel
Method You’ll learn the skills and knowledge that form the foundation for the development of creative and effective design practice.
A thorough understanding of all the components that contribute towards the fashion design process is essential to the fashion designer and at the heart of this unit, will be the emphasis on the research and design process to fuel 3D outcomes.
Make The importance realisation plays in the design process is explored in this unit with a focus on the designer market, allowing you to start exploring and developing your awareness of high-end fashion.
You’ll explore in-depth, the work and techniques of a specific designer within the established global creative hierarchy, and build a creative technical portfolio through your examination of designer techniques and methods as well as your own technical experimentation and exploration.
Methods of bias cutting and draping on the stand will be introduced to support this.
Industry Your knowledge and understanding of fashion will be expanded by exploring the industry in detail from a specific market level.
In order to create a successful design product for a particular market, it is important to thoroughly understand it.
This unit will run in tandem with the Market Unit to provide a deeper understanding of product development for a particular customer base.
Market In-depth competitor and brand analysis is a key role of the designer in order to assess and understand the market they are designing for in order to help them identify a successful approach to creating design packages appropriate to a particular market.
In this unit you’ll understand more about this through a written and visual report.
You’ll learn about how the macro environment affects the fashion industry sector and consumer groups and how it operates, introducing you to the various market levels and sectors, as well as industry structure, supply chain, distribution, marketing and commercialisation of products and services to end-users.
Tailoring You’ll learn an in-depth knowledge of tailoring through the exploration of time-honoured craft techniques and their application to contemporary design practice, you’ll introduced to a range of specialist techniques practiced in the high-end designer market.
Technical skills will be further enhanced through the exploration of traditional cutting techniques from a digital viewpoint through digital pattern technology.
You’ll produce an innovative tailored product, testing the theory behind the taught technical principles and develop your visual communication skills through the development and presentation of portfolio pages.
Reflective Practitioner You will have the opportunity to explore global perspectives and influences on creative practice, drawing upon interactions with varied identities, cultures, politics, and histories.
You’ll reflect on the development of your own creative influences, perspectives, practices, and sense of belonging as developing creative professionals in global and contemporary spaces.
Design Identity and Realisation In this unit you’ll further progress your creative, conceptual, contextual and technical understanding of design and three-dimensional garment development practices.
You’ll also be encouraged to reflect on your personal viewpoints to explore global debates around societal issues such as inclusivity and sustainability and fashion’s impact on climate change, to inform research, fabric sourcing and product development processes.
Identity You’ll be encouraged to take a more experimental and individual approach to design development, challenging perceived notions of fashion and presenting fresh perspectives on design concepts.
Your final design outcomes should be presented as a portfolio design package demonstrating a coherent yet personalised design statement.
Project Pitch Your final year begins with a project pitch week.
Portfolio & Career The Portfolio & Career unit consolidates all the design communication, presentation and professional skills learned throughout the course.
The vehicle for you to showcase your design expertise and career aspirations is the final Portfolio.
You will be encouraged to develop an individual approach to the development of your portfolio both to demonstrate your strengths and to allow you to focus it toward your career direction.
Pre-Collection You’ll concentrate on market analysis, concept research and development and the design and toiling process in preparation for your final collection in this unit.
As well as market and concept research, you’ll need to undertake an in-depth exploration and experimentation with silhouette, textiles, cutting, colour, design, detail, and finish are required to achieve innovative design solutions.
Collection & Portfolio The Collection & Portfolio unit focuses on producing an innovative, resolved and accomplished design collection and an accompanying professional portfolio.
For the Collection, you are required to review, evaluate, and apply the research, design and development work conducted in the Pre-Collection unit to achieve a resolved design package.
For the Portfolio, you are required to review the design projects and the approach taken in term 1 to create a focused and innovative final portfolio presentation that encapsulates your individual design aesthetic
Please see the Additional Course Costs section of the Course Information Docu ment for more details of the costs you may incur.
At UCA Epsom there are design, pattern and production studios.
There is also specialist sewing areas with technical assistance.
There are also campus screen printing facilities and photographic studios with professional quality lighting rigs.
Room: F1
This room contains sewing machines, pattern tables and mannequins.
Room: F2
Room: F3
Room: F4
Room: F5
Room: 24
Our Fashion Design degree enjoys an international reputation.
We've forged strong connections with many high-profile brands, including:
UCA’s Fashion Design degree enjoys an international reputation, and our graduates have progressed into a variety of rewarding careers – from design and illustration to pattern cutting and garment technology, and with leading fashion companies all over the world.
"UCA provided me with the knowledge and skills to successfully enter the fashion industry as a confident designer, eager to learn and challenge myself."
Valentina Desideri
View Fashion Design portfolio advice
Programme Director of School of Fashion & Textiles
Senior Lecturer in Fashion Design
Senior Lecturer in Fashion Design (Pattern Cutting)
Lecturer and Year 1 Lead in Fashion Design
Lecturer and Year 3 Lead in Fashion Design
Visual Communications Lecturer
Lecturer in Fashion Design (Pattern Cutting)
Lecturer in Fashion Design
Technical Tutor in Fashion
Technician in Fashion

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ba-fashion-image-styling:
From magazines to red carpets, get to the front line of the fashion industry
Collaborate with students across our fashion and textiles courses
Graduates go on to work in events and creative direction
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our BA (Hons) Fashion Image & Styling degree:
A four year degree programme, including a foundation year  to help develop your creativity before you embark on year one of a degree.
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Fashion Image & Styling students may be interested in.
Guest speakers’ series You’ll join students across the School of Fashion & Textiles for our Industry Guest Speakers’ Series – you’ll hear from people with diverse backgrounds, skills and career paths representing the diversity of our student community, to inspire you to kick-start your thinking about your own career journey.
Fashion Image Making It is vital for you, as future fashion image makers, to have a knowledge of a wide range of influential and innovative image makers and image making techniques, from a wide range of inspirational sources.
Visual communication is key to the fashion industry in promoting its message to the client.
You’ll investigate influences and inspirations, and use what you find to produce a series of fashion images designed for a specified brand, trend or product.
Equality, Diversity and Inclusion You’ll develop your awareness and understanding of equality, diversity and inclusion, and promote progressive values and attitudes in creative practice.
You’ll learn how our social identities (such as gender, race/ethnicity, class, disability, sexual orientation, and religion) contribute to the inclusion and/or exclusion of individuals in creative spaces.
Showcase This short project focuses on the importance of decision-making, fast reflexes and concise communication in the curation, exhibition and promotion of a fashion image.
You’ll work individually, and as a group, and have the opportunity to liaise with professionals.
You’ll select your best fashion image from the previous unit, rework and redesign for print and digital, and finally promote, exhibit and evaluate – all in a four-week period.
Fashion Styling and Creative Direction You’ll extend your knowledge of creative fashion styling, fashioned identity and image creation from both a theoretical and practical, industry-relevant perspective.
You’ll research and analyse a diverse range of sources and techniques and interpret your findings within an industry-relevant range of creative outcomes.
You’ll learn how stylists and creative directors use ‘style’ in order to define and represent an identity through media – as music artists, as style icons, and as influencers or models.
You are required to generate styled images for a specified publication to explore the idea of ‘identity’ through your styling and art direction.
Portfolio and Personal Development As we approach the end of your first academic year, you will learn how to curate and build a Year 1 digital portfolio.
The portfolio will allow you to reflect, review, update and present all your unit outcomes in one place to demonstrate your knowledge/understanding, technical and professional skills as a fashion image and styling practitioner.
This is your first step in placing your own practice in an industry context.
Fashion in Motion You’ll apply your understanding of, and creative responses to, the requirements of the fashion industry in moving image, whether it’s a film, animation or capturing a performance.
After defining and analysing a client of your choice, you’ll create a short creative film for that client, bearing in mind style, narrative and technique and ensuring the highest of industry standards.
Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity 2 Across four bite-sized projects, you’ll analyse, contextualise and reflect on a specific fashion market (for example; size, wealth bracket, age, gender, race, dis/ability, culture, sub-culture) to produce communication documents as if commissioned by a brand of your choice.
Using your research, you’ll unpick the marketplace needs through lenses of historical context (time), global culture (place), marketplace trends, expectations and needs, and tone and message.
Dragon’s Den Have you ever watched Dragon’s Den on the BBC?
Digital Content Creation You’ll build on contextualising your own practice in industry.
Your research, analysis and deep understanding of your own practice and current industry needs will inform your exploration and experimentation in applying your skills in communication and storytelling.
You will investigate, propose and create a multifaceted digital content campaign that will promote a brand, product or service across a number of media platforms with a consistent message and tone appropriate to your ‘client’.
You’ll complete a digital media campaign, and put together an academic proposal, which will inform and enhance your final year projects.
Portfolio and Personal Development As we approach the end of your second academic year, you will curate and build a Year 2 digital portfolio.
This is your next step in placing your own practice in an industry context.
Placement You will undertake and reflect upon work-based learning while on placement (and/or through self-managed ‘freelance’ or competition projects), lasting a minimum of three weeks.
This will enable you to observe and understand the workings of a range of industry practices, gaining a valuable insight into your chosen field through your own experiences, your studies, and by learning from the experiences of your peers.
This is your opportunity to share ideas that you will have developed over the summer about your degree project, receive feedback and fine tune it before you start actively working on it as part of your last year at university.
Innovation for industry How we communicate and present our concepts for innovation in fashion imagery is crucial to successful visual communication and, ultimately, relevance and longevity for both ourselves and our clients.
In this unit, we will introduce you to a client who will set a research question that is relevant to current industry practice.
Using the research question as a starting point, you will take a broader view of what you determine to be the definition of ‘innovation’ in response to the client brief and also to your own developing portfolio, specialist skills and practice.
You will need to identify and present new and innovative concepts, and propose an original idea to support a launch, a product, a reinvention of a product, or perhaps a narrative within a specific media arena.
Critical Thinking for Publication Following on from your Academic Proposal (completed at the end of Year 2) and your summer project, you’ll define your angle or argument, and communicate this through creative content for a specified platform or publication.
The creative outcome will be supported by a research document in which you reflect on your learning journey.
You will evidence the growth of the argument and contextualise the topic within the global fashion industry.
Graduate Career Fair The Graduate Career Fair taking place during the first week of your second term to help your job search as you prepare for life after graduation.
Creative Direction for Fashion The development of a creative business narrative, within the world of Fashion Image and Styling and at all levels of the industry, is among the most complex, yet most rewarding tasks within the marketplace.
There are three components to this final unit, which showcases the skills and insight you’ve gained over the course of the degree:
On campus there are campus printmaking workshops with dedicated technical support, photographic studios with professional lighting rigs, and digital media suites equipped with Macs and PCs, programmed with specialist design software.
Room: LR002
This room contains lighting equipment and shapers.
Room: LR003
This room contains cameras, tripods, audio equipment and location lighting.
Room: 117B
This room contains 25 iMacs and two Flextight drum scanners.
You’ll have the opportunity to take part in live industry projects collaborating with fashion giants including:
Student placements are mandatory in the second year.
Past students have undertaken placements at:
Our graduates work in areas as diverse as:
Recent graduates’ positions demonstrate a dazzling array of career opportunities, such as:
In addition, a number of graduates have created their own career and business opportunities through freelance editorial styling, journalism, and boutique PR and marketing.
Programme Director of Fashion Image
Senior Lecturer in Fashion Image & Styling
Technical Tutor in Fashion Photography
Eve Jappy talks to us about settling into her new life in Amsterdam whilst on her work placement
"The course offers an extraordinarily broad insight into the fashion industry, which has helped me significantly in developing my abilities, including photography, filmmaking, and a wide range of writing and digital media skills"
Charlotte Spencer
View Fashion Image & Styling portfolio advice

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ba-fashion-photography:
Defy convention to create your own fashion visions
Collaboration and boundary-pushing are embedded in the course identity
Learn from a team of staff with a wealth of industry experience
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our BA (Hons) Fashion Photography degree:
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Fashion Photography students may be interested in.
Guest Speakers’ Series You’ll join students across the School of Fashion and Textiles for our Industry Guest Speakers’ Series – you’ll hear from people with diverse backgrounds, skills and career paths representing the diversity of our student community, to inspire you to kick-start your thinking about your own career journey.
Looking through images You’ll be introduced to core ideas and principles involved in making fashion images.
You’ll consider the technological advances throughout the 19th, 20th and 21st centuries, and through location-based photography be exposed to, and experiment with, a range of approaches.
Equality diversity and inclusion - creative identities You’ll be asked to explore and discover yourself and introduce who you are to your peers.
This will be achieved through an individual creative outcome that explores their own history.
To understand who they are, we ask learners to look at their friends and family and investigate their own history, or the history of others around them.
We are shaped by our environment, customs, traditions and beliefs and we have become who we are because of the people who have influenced us in some way.
We have both the biological family and the family we create.
We want you to think imaginatively about presenting your findings in a creative document.
Aspirations You’ll reflect upon editorial, commercial and historical practice and pre-existing outputs, collaborating in small teams to reproduce an image using photographic approaches.
You will be given the opportunity to re-interpret chosen images to disrupt and develop the original reading.
Displacements You will be introduced to a range of approaches to fashion image-making; technological, ethical and conceptual, and learn the ways that objects and bodies are positioned in front of a lens to create meaning and debate.
You’ll be introduced to analogue photography and essential studio skills, including controlled lighting, pose and performance.
Publications and outputs You’ll reflect upon publishing, dissemination and disruption within Fashion Photography, learning about issues surrounding copyright, appropriation, montage, lo-fi self-publishing, desktop publishing, global contexts and markets.
You’ll have the opportunity to work collaboratively with students from other courses within the School of Fashion and Textiles to produce an output that is playful, disruptive, and aimed at a specified market/ audience.
Launch - Career Week You’ll start the second year with an intensive, interactive career preparation week.
Storytelling Explore the different possibilities of working with narrative in your image making, including moving image work.
You’ll work on a series of briefs set by your unit leader exploring different approaches to visual and expanded media storytelling.
This then forms the technical and conceptual understanding for what is developed in the ‘ Fashion Film’ unit that follows.
Reflective practitioner Through technology, the world and all its wonders has become more accessible, at the screen we can connect globally in a second.
The aim of this unit is to encourage learners to look at the We & Us of the world.
You’ll explore global cultures through the lens of fashion and other influent mediums, such as global cinema, historical and modern cultural movements.
You’ll work in multi-disciplinary teams to prepare a short business plan, a prototype and pitch your ideas to a panel of industry judges.
Creative agency Producing work for contexts that may include print publishing, fashion brand narratives, advertising and editorials – or working on a live brief – this unit encourages you to explore the possibilities and frictions of creative work within commercial contexts.
Engaging with opportunities You’ll research, analyse, evaluate and prepare for your placement unit at the end of their second year.
Placement You’ll have the opportunity to undertake one of two options on this unit – a four-week minimum self-initiated work placement that’s relevant to your potential career direction, or complete an industry case study which gives you the opportunity to study an aspect of the industry, that you identify as an area of interest, through the method of case study research.
This is your opportunity to share ideas that you will have developed over the summer about your degree project, receive feedback and fine-tune it before you start actively working on it as part of your last year at university.
Exploring possibilities You’ll investigate a range of processes, techniques, approaches and debates surrounding contemporary fashion image-making with the intention of refining your findings during the ‘Professional Futures’ unit.
The unit will culminate in a record of the learning that has been achieved and you will be able to articulate what direction you now wish to take going forward into ‘Professional Futures’.
Constellations You’ll develop a substantial and independently driven research project, which could take the form of a critical text, a zine, a video piece or an online project.
You’ll be encouraged to work on ideas of an appropriate academic level and explore how your constellation of research sources might be best shared to a public audience.
Graduate career fair The Graduate Career Fair takes place during the first week of your second term to help your job search as you prepare for life after graduation.
Professional futures This unit forms the culmination of your studies, taking your explorations and findings made during the ‘Looking Forward’ and ‘Constellations’ units to explore a major theme.
You will be given the opportunity to create a resolved body of work that is both critically engaged and technically appropriate.
This work could take the form of still/ moving image, installation or interdisciplinary/ transmedia.
Please see the Additional Course Costs section of the Course Information Documents for more details of the costs you may incur.
The course has access to the campus photographic studios with lighting rigs, green screen lighting set up and digital media suites equipped with Macs and PCs, programmed with specialist design software.
There is a modern library on campus with a wealth of books and specialist publications and print studios with dedicated technical support.
Room: LR001
Room: LR004
Through industry-facing project briefs, strong links with practitioners at multiple levels, portfolio reviews, visiting lectures, and annual exhibitions, students are introduced to a range of voices and experiences within the world of fashion photography, photography and moving image.
We also hold weekly lectures with well-known names within the industry.
Past lecturers have included:
Our graduates have landed roles in a dazzling range of fields, including:
"On the course I get an opportunity to learn about other photographers and I’m also able to learn about other things such as art, performance, culture and fashion – all things that relate to the visual image and help inspire ideas for new projects."
Grace Elliott
Lecturer in Fashion Photography
View Fashion Photography portfolio advice

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ba-make-up-hair-design:
Create stunning looks from editorial to experimental
Designed by make-up and hair professionals, for future make-up and hair professionals
Collaboration is an integral part of the course identity
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our BA (Hons) Make-up & Hair Design degree:
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Make-up & Hair Design students may be interested in.
Creative Publication You’ll examine the diversity of world leading makeup and hair professionals through colour textures and historical relevance.
This unit focuses on the skill of research, reference and application of makeup and hair design, through creating imagery for a creative publication.
By knowing and understanding iconic imagery and industry professionals, we discover the development of the makeup and hair industry from its humble beginnings to its current global status.
Equality Diversity and Inclusion - Creative Identities You’ll be asked to explore and discover yourself and introduce who you are to your peers.
To understand who they are, we ask learners to look at their friends and family and investigate into their own history, or the history of others around them.
Body Paint and Airbrushing for Fashion The art of body painting covers a vast area of painted effects and some makeup artists choose to specialise in this subject, usually in fashion, commercial, film and TV industries.
This unit is about the design and application of airbrushing and body art – you’ll take an individual fashion house and design a garment that will be seen in a new collection.
The difference is, this garment is purely painted on the body, considering the tone, shading and highlighting and client consistently.
Cultural Narratives This unit calls for you to branch out and explore the world outside of your own experience.
Being culturally aware means that artists are sensitive and well informed of others' life occurrences and are inspired to create a platform to voice their views on such topics.
So, for this unit, you’ll be set a client project that allows you room for creativity and provide a brand heritage, unique selling point and general established aesthetic for you to communicate an innovative beauty editorial.
Professional Practice As we approach the end of your first academic year, you will curate and build a Year 1 digital and/or physical portfolio.
The portfolio will allow you to reflect, review, update and present all your unit outcomes in one place to demonstrate your knowledge/understanding, technical and professional skills as a makeup artist and hair designer.
Innovative Motion You will research, analyse and explore the way in which the beauty industry collaborates with fashion film and performance.
This unit challenges you to explore your artistic identity through a range of creative outcomes including moving image, and how makeup and hair is considered in a 360 degree format.
You’ll broaden your skill base and also your understanding of the possible modes of artistic expression in creative image practice.
Reflective Practitioner Through technology, the world and all its wonders have become more accessible.
Through the screen, we can connect globally in a second.
Expressing Identity To prepare you for your final year of studies, Expression Identity looks to you to identify your style and creative path, linking it to your thoughts, ideas and creative journey through makeup and hair design.
It is at this point of the course that you should truly feel and act like makeup and hair designers and understand the work it takes to create movements and conversations within the industry through your practice.
You’ll construct an art-directed publication that features well-researched and developed content based on your topic of interest.
Engaging with Opportunities As we approach the end of your second academic year, you will curate and build a Year 2 digital portfolio.
This will enable you to observe and understand the workings of a range of industry practices, gaining valuable insight into your chosen field through your own experiences, your studies, and by learning from the experiences of your peers.
Creative Partners In a saturated market, how we communicate and present our concepts for innovation through fashion imagery is crucial to successful visual communication and creative collaborations.
Using the research question as a starting point, you will take a broader view in response to the client brief and to your own developing portfolio, specialist skills and practice.
The outcome will develop through an in-depth knowledge and understanding of all areas in which fashion, makeup and hair operates.
Critical Thinking Through Fashion Following on from your Academic Proposal (completed at the end of Year 2), and your summer project, you’ll define your angle or argument, and communicate this through creative content for a specified platform or publication.
Your Artistic Practice For your final project on the course, you are expected to create a substantial project that focuses on your area of professional interest and showcases your specialist skills.
This work may take a variety of forms (such as: a body of editorial work within a publication; a series of films; an exploration of digital media platforms; photography, product development, design, collage and illustration, ethical or culturally specific narratives, virtual reality, retail or an installation concept; or a combination of some, none, or all of these).
You’ll also complete a research document, as well as your final Personal Development Planning Career Document to support you in your professional practice after graduation.
Study in our brand new beauty studios at UCA Epsom.
The campus also has a wide range of facilities including fully equipped photography studios and digital media suites with Macs and PCs with latest programmes for editing as well as general design work.
Graduates of this course can expect to leave and develop within a variety of different roles.
Two Make-up and Hair Design students from UCA were named semi-finalists in the 2022 International Beauty Industry (IBI) Awards .
Lecturer, Year 1 and Year 2 Lead in Make-up & Hair Design
Technical Tutor in Hair Design
View Make-Up & Hair Design portfolio advice
Elouise Towler, BA (Hons) Make-Up & Hair Design
Dorcas Omoyi Woho, BA (Hons) Make-Up & Hair Design
Andreea Capusan, BA (Hons) Make-Up & Hair Design
Lucia Biance Radoslaw, BA (Hons) Make-up & Hair Design
Eileen Zhu, BA (Hons) Make-Up & Hair Design
Fiona Gentry, BA (Hons) Make-up & Hair Design
Asima Khatan, BA (Hons) Make-Up & Hair Design
Maryana Dimitrova-Lazarova, BA (Hons) Make-up & Hair Design
BA (Hons) Make-up & Hair Design, UCA Rochester
Georgia Brady, BA (Hons) Make-up & Hair Design

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ba-studio-practice-fashion-design:
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our BA (Hons) Studio Practice (Fashion Design) (top-up) degree:
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Studio Practice (Fashion Design) (top-up) students may be interested in.
As you join the course, you'll work alongside final year students, meaning you'll jump straight into the action with practical and research-based projects.
You'll complete these units:
Year one (equivalent in level to Year three)
Other relevant and equivalent UK and international qualifications are considered on an individual basis, and we encourage students from diverse educational backgrounds to apply.
For this courses, we’ll need to see your portfolio for review.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ba-studio-practice-fashion-image-styling:
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our BA (Hons) Studio Practice (Fashion Image & Styling) (top-up) degree:
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Studio Practice (Fashion Image & Styling) (top-up) students may be interested in.
We’ll need to see your portfolio for review.
The entry requirements for this course will depend on the country your qualifications are from, please check the equivalent qualifications for your country:

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ba-studio-practice-make-up-hair-design:
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our BA (Hons) Studio Practice (Make-up & Hair Design) (top-up) degree:
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Studio Practice (Make-up & Hair Design) (top-up) students may be interested in.
Project Pitch Your year begins with a project pitch week.
Critical Thinking Through Fashion You’ll define an angle or argument and communicate this through creative content for a specified platform or publication.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ba-textiles:
Focus on sustainable practice
Learn how to design smartly and make mindfully
Develop your creative identity
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our BA (Hons) Textiles degree:
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Textiles students may be interested in.
Textiles - Sustainable Fundamentals, Colour and Materials You’ll be introduced to the core principles in sustainability and circularity, undertaking research and learning relevant historic and contemporary global contexts Colour will be a focus from a scientific starting point to trends and forecasting, students will learn about colour through practise through a full range of coloration techniques.
Textiles Discovery 1 You’ll be introduced to the act of making as a key skill and means of experimental research through the exploration of the three areas of textiles in material making - dye, print & surface and constructed textiles
Textiles Discovery 2 You’ll discover new skills that support development in design, aesthetics and technical confidence, and accomplish more individual responses through complex making processes and techniques in the three main textile pathways.
You’ll cultivate an experimental understanding through making, and discover new practices and processes as you begin to realise their textile identity.
Industry connections As you approach the end of your first academic year, you will learn how to curate a digital and physical portfolio, building on the presentation skills you’ve developed.
The portfolio will allow you to reflect, review, update and present all your unit outcomes in one place to demonstrate your knowledge and understanding, technical and professional skills.
You will position your portfolio within an industry context, and you will be expected to enhance your portfolio by engaging with industry through one live activity such as a competition, or a live project or trans-disciplinary collaboration or attend a live networking event where you promote/present your portfolio.
Advanced textiles The second year is an important developmental phase in which students can explore their subject more in-depth as well as experiment, speculate and take creative risks.
This unit is about doing just that – generating concepts and combining practice in advanced specialist processes and techniques, with a developing personal narrative and story, interwoven through speculative experimentation.
Risk-taking within creative practice will be encouraged, with no right or wrong way.
Reflective Practitioner You’ll have the opportunity to explore global perspectives and influences on creative practice, drawing upon interactions with varied identities, cultures, politics, and histories.
Textiles industry focus You’ll develop an understanding and awareness of sustainable culture through researching a sustainable company profile with a brand identity, in which you can position and market your textile product.
You’ll pick your best concept or design from previous work and transform it into a sustainable textile product with scalability/commercial potential, fabricated through a specific pathway or multi-disciplinary combined pathway in tactile material making, dye, print and surface, constructed textiles.
The outcome can be self-fabricated or fabricated through outsourced manufacturing, or presented as a PoC (proof of concept) with a professional prototype.
Sustainability, careers and industry As we approach the end of your second academic year, you will curate and build a physical portfolio, building on the presentation skills you’ve developed.
You will work individually and in small groups to share market intelligence and develop critiquing skills to debate your research findings in sustainability, circularity, social and ethical issues.
You’ll need to position your portfolio within a textile industry and organising a work placement within a future workplace.
Creative Innovation for Industry Your final year is the chance to explore your creativity and apply your skillset to new creative opportunities.
Using all you’ve learned you’ll create new textiles and materials for a substantial portfolio with industry purpose to an international audience.
You will develop a directional creative portfolio which showcases your individual project, trough creative innovations for industry.
Brand, Career and Professional Development In order to help you with your career post graduation or further study, this unit is all about getting you ready.
You’ll start to build professional networks and explore social media as a mechanism and platform to communicate your work globally.
Branding and promotion will be important elements in establishing and conveying your creative identity in the communication process.
You’ll also be required to complete one or more professional development tasks, including entering international competitions or organising a public exhibition.
Directional Creative Portfolio The aim of this final unit is to create a culture of life-long active learning, inspiring creative pursuit into past and present and looking forward to the future.
You’ll develop and express your own creative vision, producing an individual body of work that is highly unique, innovative and inherently sustainable, ready to enter the world of work, or to progress onto the MA Textiles Innovation or alternative further study.
You’re also required to curate a bespoke, purposeful and future-facing portfolio reflecting your individual interest and position.
Professional practice or International year (if underataken)
As well as dedicated studio spaces we have - screen-printing tables, dye baths, large heat press, pattern cutting tables, sewing machine, computers and scanners, digital textile printer, dye sublimation printer, drying racks and well stocked cloth and yarn shops.
Room: 35B
Room: 35 C/D
Room: 44
This room contains a TX3 digital textile printer and a dye sublimation printer.
We have strong industry connections with many leading names in the sector – our students have undertaken work placements and/or secured rewarding careers with, for example:
Our Textile Design degree offers you a springboard into a diverse range of career paths.
Recent graduates have secured roles as:
Lecturer & Technical Tutor in Constructed Textiles
Lecturer in Printed Textiles
Associate Lecturer & Technical Tutor in Textiles
View Textiles portfolio advice

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ma-creative-direction-fashion:
MA Creative Direction for Fashion is an intensive one-year course designed for creatives and fashion image-makers seeking to refine and innovate their existing practice.
It offers a platform for critical enquiry and bold experimentation, encouraging you to challenge how fashion is communicated, curated and consumed across visual and experiential contexts.
Creative Directors are instrumental in shaping the visual language of brands and clients, translating ideas into compelling outputs such as PR events, exhibitions and brand activations.
Concepts for these outcomes are grounded in strong contextual and theoretical frameworks, enabling students to explore the cultural, social and political dimensions of fashion while developing ambitious, forward-facing communication creative strategies.
You will engage directly with industry professionals across brand, image-making and communication roles, gaining practical insight while developing your own distinctive approach to creative direction.
The course emphasises leadership, collaboration and critical thinking as key to responding to the demands of a constantly evolving industry.
The course welcomes creatives wishing to delve deeper into their interest in visual culture and its role in shaping contemporary fashion.
It is also open to individuals from a wide range of creative backgrounds, including fashion design, fashion communication, textiles, fashion business, photography, graphic design, film, media and related disciplines.
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our MA Creative Direction for Fashion degree:
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Creative Direction for Fashion students may be interested in.
Launch Launch week is a cross-school event bringing together postgraduate students across all disciplines within the School of Fashion and Textiles to get to know each other and form an international, cross-functional, dynamic postgraduate community.
Exploring Creative Practice You will experiment with a range of approaches to making and constructing work, beginning to define the processes you want to investigate.
The work you produce in this unit should comprise of tests and experiments (failure and reflection is encouraged) to be presented at the end of the unit in a visual summary communicating what you have learned, about both yourself as a creative and your primary medium(s).
Critical thinking for Creative Practice Within this unit you will be introduced to historical and contemporary debates that underpin your creative practice.
You will be given the opportunity to expand your historical and contextual knowledge, examine ethical frameworks, and be introduced to social and cultural approaches to fashion and textiles.
Opportunity Week Opportunity Week is cross-school event bringing together all postgraduate students across all disciplines within fashion and textiles to formally present their work in progress and major project proposal to their postgraduate community.
Students will be encouraged to give formative feedback and identify shared interest and potential collaboration opportunities.
Refining Creative Practice You’ll reflect further upon work made in Exploring Creative Practice to highlight a route forward.
It will culminate in an interim exhibition of your work, working with fellow students to plan, fund, curate and promote it at specified venues.
Collaborative Professional Practice Within this unit you will be introduced to markets, industry connections, contexts and future facing professional development within your discipline, in order to complete a two-stage collaborative professional project covering your planning and implementation.
Major Project The culmination of your studies, your major project is the chance to showcase your research and creative exploratory practice.
This will require you to produce a significant body of work, which encapsulates the creative ideas, research methodologies, new insights, technical expertise and professional contexts.
This course has studio spaces at The Wells - a new addition to complement our main campus and remodelled to specifically enhance students' learning experience.
On campus there are also printing facilities and photographic studios with professional quality lighting rigs.
Graduates of this course can expect to leave their studies with the option to work in a variety of roles, including:

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ma-digital-fashion:
Ranked 1st in the world for Digital Fashion in The Rookies Global School Rankings 2024
MA Digital Fashion is an intensive 12-month course for designers, creatives and researchers who want to shape the future of fashion in virtual, hybrid and evolving digital spaces.
Taught by a team of industry practitioners, this course was the first of its kind when launched by UCA.
Its unique position continues today through an innovative interdisciplinary programme that spans fashion gaming and immersive digital culture.
The course supports boundary-pushing thinking and future-facing creative practice and graduates leave with a digitally fluent, critically developed portfolio that positions them to contribute to the next wave of creative digital practice.
Garments are approached as interactive, spatial and narrative opportunities from life-like avatars and virtual catwalks to immersive XR environments.
Through hands-on experimentation with 3D design, environment building, digital pattern cutting, storytelling, and world-building, you develop a distinctive body of work that reflects your creative direction and critical perspective.
The course is supported by industry software including Clo3D , Blender, Unreal Engine, Adobe Substance 3D and AI-driven workflows, students are encouraged to experiment with additional platforms and applications suited to their individual practice.
Motion capture is also available as part of our cross-campus facilities.
As technologies shift, so do the opportunities.
You might create responsive wearables for virtual performance, develop character styling for games, AI-driven applications or build speculative environments.
There’s also space to imagine new experiences that blur the boundaries between fashion, art and entertainment.
Our award-winning students further benefit from excellent industry connections and unique opportunities.
Previous students have worked on live projects with brands and institutions including Farfetch, Epic Games, The Fabricant, Xydrobe, the National Portrait Gallery and have showcased their work across digital fashion week events in London, New York, Dubai and the metaverse.
Owing to the interdisciplinary nature of digital fashion, this course is open to a range of backgrounds including fashion, textiles, fashion business, games, animation, film, and graphic design – although if you come from an experience outside fashion or 3D, you should expect to undertake intensive learning that will bring you up to speed.
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our MA Digital Fashion degree:
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Digital Fashion students may be interested in.
MA Digital Fashion Showreel
Digital Practice With a self-negotiated individual project proposal developed over the course of this unit, you will analyse and reflect on your research ideas and pre-existing analogue and digital skills, in order to identify the digital fashion concept you wish to develop.
You will look at contemporary creative industry practice, trend forecasting and abstract concepts to explore how global markets and consumers might interact, identify with, and consume digital fashion.
The unit runs in parallel to Critical Thinking for Creative Practice unit, which focuses on contextualising practice within professional contexts, cultural, social and economic themes, through the development of critical reading, research and documenting.
Project Development You’ll use the knowledge you’ve already gained to support and inform the design and modification of your digital fashion concept and project proposal.
You start to build a body of work which must be appropriate for your selected market and target consumer.
Project Realisation The culmination of your studies, this unit will showcase your skills, understanding and creative approach in a way that’s appropriate to your intended audience, platform or creative sector.
Through your Project Proposal, Research Journal and the development of a Project Reflection Document, you will apply the knowledge gained through your research and the skills acquired in the previous units, on this programme, to create a final body of work presented as an industry ready portfolio.
Graduates of this ground-breaking course might develop their career within a number of different roles:
Technical Tutor in 3D Technologies
View Digital Fashion portfolio advice

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ma-fashion-design:
Become a fashion designer with a brand identity, a full collection and a commercial business strategy - plus all the tools to promote yourself in the international market - on our MA Fashion Design course.
Focusing on a collection you’ve already created, or starting a new one from scratch – you’ll develop your signature style and transform your fashion line to match.
You’ll gain business insight and explore ways to externalise your practice, all within a creative and supportive environment.
As you study, you'll work in course-specific fashion studios, sewing and textile print workshops, as well as making use of campus-wide facilities such as digital printing and photography studios.
You’ll also benefit from our close connections within the fashion industry, with opportunities to hear from exciting guest lecturers and access individual help and guidance from professional mentors.
Your studies will culminate in the creation and launch of your brand – the springboard to your career in the fashion industry.
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our MA Fashion Design degree:
Brand Evolution and Development You’ll identify a clear direction for your studies and personal development, through analysis and reflection of your most recent fashion collection, (e.g.
your undergraduate collection) or creative portfolio, in order to create a unique brand identity and innovative design proposal.
This will incorporate an introduction to business planning including brand positioning, consumer segmentation and competitor analysis.
Collection Development and Consolidation You’ll progress with garment production, utilising an external manufacturing resource to produce a statement outfit, or create a virtual collection using 3D fashion design software and Gerber pattern technology.
Both options require you to create the technical specifications and patterns to support physical or digital outcomes.
Research and Professional Context It is key for designers and for a designer fashion business to develop an understanding of creating products that deliver and recognise the importance of a business strategy and the role that costs, pricing, planning and marketing play in supporting product development.
In this unit you’ll be required to develop the second stage of your business plan, which includes a detailed analysis of their collection, range planning and financial analysis including startup costs, manufacturing, sales forecasts and cash flow.
Final Project Resolution and Collection Launch The final unit is a culmination of the your studies and work completed in the previous units.
You’ll realise and launch your brand through the introduction of a marketing strategy, outsourced product manufacture or a digital catwalk collection, which demonstrates key skills in product realisation, business planning and digital marketing.
Taught by lecturers and sessional staff with direct experience in the fashion industry, our course has a number of high profile industry links, including:
Our fashion design MA will prepare students, with a fantastic support system from our industry staff, for clear and exciting career options upon graduating:
Year Lead and Lecturer in MA Fashion Design
"I find that my tutors are extremely helpful and supportive.
Being part of a creative university, there is a lot great work that is exchanged on campus and this keeps me up-to-date with what is happening in all the different areas, which is really important to me."
Riddhi Masrani

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ma-fashion-photography:
MA Fashion Photography at UCA Epsom is an intensive one-year course designed for creatives with an ongoing photographic practice and a strong interest in fashion, as well as those looking to refine and innovate within their existing approach to fashion image-making.
The programme's ethos is rooted in developing the next generation of visual disruptors, those who challenge convention, push creative and cultural boundaries and bring thought-provoking perspectives to fashion photography.
Successful applicants typically demonstrate both a nuanced command of photographic technique and a capacity for critical thinking about the narratives that shape fashion, identity and representation.
The course centres on independent project-based development, enabling you to conceptualise, produce and disseminate bold, original bodies of work.
You will be taught by staff who are active within the field and supported by a suite of analogue and digital photography facilities, encouraging both independent and collaborative exploration.
The curriculum is enriched by industry engagement and challenges you to take initiative in publishing or exhibiting your work in both academic and public contexts
As new digital tools continue to reshape visual culture, the course encourages a curious and critical approach to how these developments expand the possibilities of fashion image-making and challenge established modes of practice.
A strong experimental approach is central to the course, enabling you to develop a critically informed and distinctive visual language.
This foundation supports work that can translate into a range of contexts, whether fashion editorial, campaign development, art-based bodies of work, tech-led forms of fashion image-making.
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our MA Fashion Photography degree:
Our MA Photography courses enjoy extensive links with a number of photographic, media and fine art professionals, curators, publishers, specialist printers and book designers.
These connections enrich your experience through visiting lecturer and seminar programmes.
In the last three years, speakers on the course have included photographers and other creative practitioners such as:
Additionally, creative professionals and industry links for our course include:
Our postgraduate degree prepares you for your career through professional practice units, talks by visiting artists and portfolio reviews with figures from across the photographic industry.
Career opportunities include:
Graduates of MA Photography have gone on to win the Jerwood Photography prize; to exhibit their work in The Photographers' Gallery, Photofusion, ArtSway and the Geffyre Museum as well as publishing their outputs in different venues ranging from The Sunday Times Magazine to monographs with Dewi Lewis Publishing.
Our course provides an excellent platform for you to connect with your subject, or to further your teaching career at an advanced level.
It also helps prepare you for further study or research to specialise even further.
We also encourage you to apply to national and international competitions and residencies.
Recent graduates have met with success at the PhotoforumPasquArt in Switzerland and Emergent Lleida, Spain.
Alumni have also gone on to study for PhDs and to teach in many different national and international institutions at a range of levels.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ma-textiles:
A catalyst for change, MA Textiles at UCA Epsom is a responsive and diverse creative programme of study.
What sets our course apart is the opportunity we provide for you to engage with a range of broad professional industry contexts as you develop and expand your practice through the course.
You’ll graduate as a flexible specialist with confidence in sustainable practice that industry will want to invest in.
We’ve drawn together a rich and longstanding legacy of established academic excellence in research, knowledge and expertise in textiles practice and professional industry contexts.
Along the way you will examine the intersections of textiles with other subjects, with a focus on the priorities of sustainable textiles in wider creative industries and creative communities.
And you’ll be a part of our vibrant, interdisciplinary and international postgraduate community of staff and students across textiles, fashion design, digital fashion, fashion photography, creative direction and global fashion cultures.
This creative community will inspire you to develop your creative practice, share ideas and collaborate with practitioners from other disciplines while being supported all the way by your academic team.
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our MA Textiles degree:
Textiles Practice 1 Through defining or redefining your concepts in a creative context, you will consider a range of textile applications for fashion, interiors or other relevant industry and build from your existing skills.
By the end of the unit, you will have developed innovative textile/material investigations, experimental and exploratory work and prototypes supported by research.
Textiles Practice 2 This unit allows you to explore expanded concepts for textiles for a wide range of sectors, contextualising your work in the world of fashion, the body, interiors/spaces and experience.
You will begin to interrogate your practice in far greater depth with a view towards constructing a specific body of work for an industry.
Practice continues from a defined project proposal, and you will have the opportunity to collaborate with an external creative industry partner.
Major Project This final unit will require you to produce a significant body of work, which encapsulates the creative ideas, research methodologies, new insights, technical expertise, and professional contexts.
Work should be executed to an appropriate standard for impactful positioning in a professional context.
Recent guest lecturers include:
Upon successful completion, you may decide to become self-employed, or forge a career within the craft and design industries.
These offer a variety of career opportunities, including:
The The International Textile Research Centre (ITRC), based at UCA, offers an exciting staff and student research culture developing collaborative relationships with major cultural institutions, networks, galleries and museums around the world.
Lecturer in Textiles & Sustainability
"The great thing about doing an MA is the artistic freedom you experience, which encourages you to take risks with your work and deeply question your decisions, from both a creative and theoretical perspective."
Beverly Ayling-Smith

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/facilities-resources/digital-fashion-print-studios:
The digital fashion and print studio facilities feature state-of-the-art technology and equipment.
This includes high-resolution printers, advanced CAD software, large-format plotters, and digital textile printers.
With guidance from our expert technicians, you’ll have everything you need to create intricate fashion designs and high-quality prints in a seamless and innovative environment.
Room: 33
Room: 204A
This room contains guillotines and bookbinding equipment.
Room: 34
This room contains screen print tables and drying racks.
Room: 34A
This room contains two exposure units.
Room: 31
This room contains a screen wash unit.
Room: 42
Room: M2.10
This room contains a laser cutter and a computer.
Room: 1st floor, The Wells

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/facilities-resources/fashion-design-atelier:
In the Fashion Design Atelier at UCA Epsom, you'll have everything you need to put your creative ideas into practice using the latest tools and equipment.
Featuring professional-grade sewing machines, spacious cutting tables, and a wide array of fabrics and tools, this is a comprehensive environment for the meticulous creation and tailoring of high-fashion garments.
With guidance from highly skilled technicians, you’ll be encouraged to experiment by combining traditional skills and techniques with new digital technology.
Room: 35A
These rooms contains screen print tables, dye baths and a large heat press.
Room: 130
This room contains 20 make-up stations.
Room: 201
Room: F6

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/facilities-resources/sewing-fabrication-workshop:
Our Sewing and Fabrication Workshop provides the space you need to build up your sewing skills, experiment with industry-standard technology, and bring your fashion designs to life.
You'll find everything you need to create and embellish your designs, including sewing machines, spacious cutting tables, and a wide array of fabrics and tools.
Expert technicians are also on hand to provide specialist assistance.
Designed to foster creativity, innovation, and skill development, our mission is to provide a collaborative and inspiring environment where makers can share knowledge and bring their ideas to life.
Room: 2nd Floor, The Wells
Room: 2nd floor, The Wells

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2025/graduates-celebrate-successes-at-gfw25:
UCA fashion graduates were celebrating successes at Graduate Fashion Week 2025 (GFW25) after it kicked off at Truman Brewery in London last Friday.
18 June 2025
Fashion Design graduate, Le Wa Tan , was named winner of the GFW25 UCA Epsom solo catwalk show with Eli Ng receiving the Highly Commended Award.
Le Wa Tan, was also selected to show their design at the Best of GFW25 Catwalk, going on to win Best of GFW25 Silver Award, judged by industry experts,
Le Wa Tan’s graduate collection took inspiration from clowns and circus motifs, and captured the judges attention for it's playful and personal approach.
The looks included a polka dot mini dress with a mega flower pin, inspired by circus tents and clown squirt flowers, and a puffy, super gathered shirt with polka dots – simple and chic, clown costumes influencing the silhouette.
GFW said of Le Wa Tan’s collection: “With a confident mix of texture, pattern and character, Le Wa Tan’s work stood out as a joyful expression of style – refreshingly individual.”
Winning The Zandra Rhodes Fashion Award was Célian Dewasmes , who describes his clothing as honest, emotional, and intuitive.
The award is named in honour of globally renowned print and fashion designer Dame Zandra Rhodes, a lifetime patron of the Graduate Fashion Foundation and UCA Chancellor Emerita.
In writing about his design inspiration, Celian explained: “I was raised in a creative environment that greatly influenced the development of my identity.
I was often surrounded by paper, which led me to craft objects out of anything I could find in my mother’s studio.
Today, I approach textiles in an experimental way, treating them like paper and drawing inspiration from the pop-up books that once fascinated me.
This emotional background is something I bring into every concept I create.”
Elsewhere, William George , BA (Hons) Fashion Atelier & Tailoring graduate, was shortlisted by industry judges and his collection shown at two further catwalk shows, the GFW25 Debenhams.com Catwalk to Commercial Catwalk Show and GFW25 Mens Collective Catwalk Show.
Earlier in the year saw William become a finalist at the Golden Shears Awards.
Patryk Lotocki and Tyler Stuart-Raddon , also BA (Hons) Fashion Atelier & Tailoring graduates, joined William and had their collections showcased for a second time at the GFW25 Mens Collective Catwalk Show.
While at the entrance hall of the GFW25 exhibition Ellen Stockdale , BA (Hons) Fashion Atelier & Tailoring, had part of her final collection showcased, selected from online entries.
Lastly, the following UCA Epsom fashion students were shortlisted from online entries by the industry judges and interviewed in-person at GFW, in the following awards categories:
Full of fashion creativity and innovation, GFW25 gave UCA’s emerging designers a platform to showcase their designs to potential recruiters, buyers, designers, stylists, and fashion representatives, putting them at the forefront of the fashion industry and creative career.
To find out more about studying fashion at UCA, visit the course pages.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2025/love-letter-to-ellesse-wins-competition:
Xuanhao Yi, a BA (Hons) Fashion Design student, has won third place in the Graduate Fashion Week (GFW) Ellesse Design competition with a collection that is a love letter to Ellesse’s legacy.
17 March 2025
Ellesse challenged fashion design students to explore the brand’s rich legacy, values and Italian heritage and then design a six-outfit collection that pushes the boundaries of tennis apparel and accessories, while maintaining a contemporary aesthetic, for both on and off-court moments.
Yi said: ‘I poured so much energy into every decision, from the cut of the silhouettes to the strategic placement of the logos—so to have that effort recognised on such a big platform is an incredible honour.
It also makes me even more motivated to keep pushing myself as a designer, to continue exploring how fashion and function can coexist seamlessly.”
Yi’s collection is called ‘Campione’, which means champion in Italian.
It is a love letter to Ellesse’s legacy and the idea that sportswear is more than just clothing, but “a symbol of perseverance, passion, and style.”
His design takes classic sportswear silhouettes – tennis, Formula 1 and ski wear – and reimagines them with contemporary tailoring, bold graphics and performance-driven materials.
The result is a “collection that champions those who live at the intersection of sport and fashion,” Yi added.
“Even the colour palette was deeply intentional, drawing from vintage sports uniforms and urban fashion trends.
Shades of racing red, deep navy, forest green, creamy yellow, and classic white create a mix of old-school sports nostalgia with a bold, modern twist,” he continued.
Yi loved the storytelling aspect of this competition and the brief set by Ellesse: "Diving into Ellesse’s history and reinterpreting it for today’s world allowed me to tell a story about legacy, evolution, and the spirit of champions.
He added: “I also really enjoyed the technical side—experimenting with different materials, structures, and graphics to ensure that each piece felt elevated but still wearable.
Most of all, it was just so much fun.
Fashion is meant to be felt, to be lived in, and to inspire confidence—and I hope Campione does just that.”
Izzy Crew, Designer at Ellesse, commented: "It's been incredible; I think everyone should be really proud for entering."
Yi has won the opportunity to have one of his designs professionally manufactured and then showcased on the catwalk at the Graduate Fashion Week Gala show this June.
Read more on the Graduate Fashion Website.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2024/triple-success-for-uca-at-2024-fashion-awards:
UCA is celebrating the successes of Fashion alum Priya Ahluwalia and Honorary Doctor of Arts’ Jonathan Anderson and Remo Ruffini, after they all picked up coveted prizes at the 2024 Fashion Awards.
03 December 2024
Above, UCA’s three 2024 Fashion Award winners – from left, Jonathan Anderson (photo by David Sims), Priya Ahluwalia (picture courtesy of the Fashion Awards), and Remo Ruffini.
At a glittering ceremony at the Royal Albert Hall in London, hosted by the British Fashion Council, Priya won the award for New Establishment Menswear, a prize that “recognises menswear designers who have created a new movement in British fashion and have a sustained impact on the industry globally," according to the organisers.
In a backstage interview, Priya – whose eponymous brand Ahluwalia was launched in 2018 – said: “I feel so happy and really honoured, and it’s lovely to be accepted for my work.”
Meanwhile, 2024 Honorary Doctor of Arts Jonathan – who is the creative director of LOEWE and also runs his own brand, JW Anderson, was named Designer of the Year for the second year running.
And Remo, who was conferred an Honorary Doctor of Arts in 2023 and who helms Italian luxury fashion brand Moncler, told the audience “Creativity is the language of possibility,” as he collected the Trailblazer Award.
Jules Dagonet, Director of the School of Fashion and Textiles at UCA, said: “Congratulations to all of the winners but especially to our UCA graduates and associates.
Priya was a rising star when she was a student here and we are absolutely thrilled to see her win this wonderful accolade.
“She has really proved how far you can go with a UCA fashion degree, and our current cohort of talented students can look to her as a true inspiration.”

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/blogs/colourful-heritage--the-story-so-far:
Earlier this year, University for the Creative Arts (UCA) and The Zandra Rhodes Foundation announced the launch of an exciting new collaborative project – Colourful Heritage – funded by the National Lottery Heritage Fund.
Running until August 2025, the project involves the creation of a digital archive featuring 150 pieces of Rhodes’ work.
Here’s how the project has been going so far and what’s next…
19 November 2024
Over the summer, student interns were given the incredible opportunity of working in Zandra Rhodes’ Studio to digitally archive 150 fashion pieces, which you can now see online for the first time .
The archive includes jewellery and headpieces designed for Rhodes’ fashion shows by jeweller and sculptor Andrew Logan; headpieces designed by avant-garde milliner Stephen Jones during the early years of his career; and headpieces designed by milliner Piers Atkinson, whose clients include Lady Gaga and Doja Cat.
It also includes iconic articles referenced in Rhodes’ autobiography, Iconic – such as the cape Freddie Mercury tried on in her Bayswater studio, to a dress fitted for Princess Diana at Kensington Palace.
In Rhodes’ studio, the interns had the opportunity to work with the internationally renowned designer as well as Piers Atkinson (Head of The Zandra Rhodes Foundation), Frances Diplock (retired Production Manager who worked with Rhodes for more than 40 years), and other experts including the photographer Jon Stokes, and from the Victoria and Albert Museum, senior textile conservator Sarah Glenn and costume mounter Stephanie Howell.
The student interns found it invaluable to see a working studio, building their confidence and introducing them to a new suite of career options going forward.
The students also supported the project team with creating social media content on Instagram .
The student interns are being supported with employability skills and one of the interns, Emily Ash, has already secured a job with Rhodes.
Thanks to the National Lottery Heritage funding, UCA has also digitally archived more than 100 pages of Rhodes’ fashion and textile design drawings, updating an existing archive and completing a comprehensive record of Rhodes’ work from 1969 to 2020.
These style bibles were previously unseen private working resources, held only in the studio – now 17 style bibles of fashion drawings and a textile design bible are all online for anyone to browse.
Meanwhile, a new phase of the project is about to begin, working with young people from underprivileged backgrounds and inspiring new audiences to access creative education and in turn, cultural heritage.
Growing up in a working-class family in the Medway area of Kent, Rhodes’ father was a lorry driver and her mother a lecturer at the local Medway College of Design (which later became UCA).
Rhodes’ worked hard at Fort Pitt Grammar School, and from a young age would draw and sketch every day.
One of her iconic textile designs ‘Wiggle and Checks’ was inspired by jigsaw puzzles her family and her did as a family on holiday.
With that in mind, Ellen Brown, Project Manager (Education & Outreach) from UCA will be working with schools in the Medway area of Kent, to encourage 16 and 17-year-olds to be inspired by this example to #draweveryday and to find inspiration in their own everyday experiences.
Workshops will be taking place in the Spring of 2025, and those who take part will receive a special Dame Zandra Rhodes pink and gold sketchbook to record their work.
A big #ThanksToYou to National Lottery players for funding The Colourful Heritage Project courtesy of the National Lottery Heritage Fund.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2024/rookies-put-uca-in-top-25-creative-schools-in-the-world:
The University for the Creative Arts (UCA) has been ranked in the top 25 creative schools in the world by leading games industry platform, The Rookies.
02 October 2024
The website’s annual ranking of universities, colleges and specialist schools , put UCA 25 th in the Top 50 Creative Schools in the World, and third in the UK.
It also ranks schools on more specific creative categories, such as Architectural Visualisation, 2D Animation and Immersive Media – and in Digital Fashion, UCA was ranked number one.
The rankings are based on student work submissions.
This year, 180 judges reviewed 67,000 entries from across the globe.
Andy Bossom, UCA’s Industry Engagement Lead and Director of the UCA Games Incubator Studio for the School of Games and Creative Technology, said: "We are so pleased with this news.
It is a testament to the ongoing hard work and excellence being achieved in the UK at UCA, from both the students and the staff delivery team.
Our commitment to high quality industry facing education, providing the space for research and to creatively explore new work, as well as collaborate with industry partners on live briefs and funded research projects, is born out through the outstanding graduate portfolios we see and this important international recognition."
Dr Sophy Smith, Director of the School of Games and Creative Technology at UCA said “Over the last few years, games at UCA has benefited from around £3 million investment in state-of-the art games labs and facilities.
These facilities, combined with our high-quality teaching and learning, is a potent force that enables our students to produce an excellent standard of work."
Professor Jules Dagonet, Director of the School of Fashion and Textiles, added: “We’re thrilled to be number one!
This achievement celebrates UCA's pioneering commitment to Digital Fashion as a force for good for the fashion and games industry."
MA Digital Fashion at UCA was the first degree course of its kind when it launched in 2020.
Since its inception, it has attracted collaboration with the likes of Farfetch, Epic Games and the Fabricant.
Emily Shahaj, lecturer in 3D Digital Fashion, said: “Thank you to our students for creating such incredible work and our tutor technicians Eshwar Nagilla and Ingrid Heskett for supporting them.”

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2024/fashion-student-wins-gff-ellesse-comp:
A Fashion student has won second place in the Graduate Fashion Foundation and ellesse Tailors Programme competition with a collection rooted in ellesse’s DNA and expressed through a Londoner’s lens.
16 May 2024
Thomas Bradford, studying BA (Hons) Fashion at UCA Epsom, joins two joint-first winners to show their winning outfits at the upcoming Graduate Fashion Week 2024 Best of Show catwalk.
“This opportunity feels incredible –I’m immensely proud.
Seeing my designs brought to life is extremely validating, and the recognition and trust placed in me is very motivating.
GFF and ellesse have been authentic in nurturing creative graduates, and I’ve loved having professional insight into how collaborations work and how ellesse brings its visions to life,” Thomas said.
The design challenge asked students to dive into the Ellesse archive and craft a 12-piece capsule collection for SS24 and AW24 collections.
Adhering to the brand’s iconic elements – the chevron.
The print, the jet stripe, and the Rimini stripe – the students were also tasked with integrating at least one tracksuit, an Ellesse bestseller and wardrobe staple.
Jack Richardson, the Director of ellesse, said: “As we celebrate our 65th year, we’re delighted to partner with Graduate Fashion Foundation and give students future opportunities that commemorate our founding principles of tailoring technical products for the sports-minded consumer.”
Capturing the essence of the Italian sportswear brand, the students were asked to create a collection inspired by the brand’s iconic ‘SATORIA’ range, which epitomises the fusion of heritage and modernity.
Thomas’ collection embraced the brand’s heritage and reimagined classic ski-wear silhouettes, infused with the flavour of London, he added: “The sleek lines of ellesse meet the unapologetic spirit of London.”
He created a collection that transitioned seamlessly from snow to city and included ski motifs, a side bag inspired by a ski slope pass, pattern cutting from vintage ellesse ski suits, and prints of Italian mountain ranges.
And with a colour palette that juxtaposed bold pops of classic ellesse red, yellow and blue with 80s ski tones.
He added: “My collection represents a marriage of ellesse’s ski-wear legacy and the contemporary edge of London streetwear.
It is a homage to the brand’s past, a celebration of the present, and a glimpse into a future in which ellesse continues to define the intersection of fashion, function, and culture.”
As part of their prize, the three winning students will work closely with the ellesse team and London factory Fashion Enter to bring their designs to life ahead of the Best of Show in June.
Follow Thomas on Instagram @thomasjb_

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2024/heritage-funding-for-zandra-rhodes-digital-archive:
Thanks to a £111,000 National Lottery Heritage Fund grant, 150 fashion pieces from internationally renowned designer, Dame Zandra Rhodes, will be digitally archived by the University for the Creative Arts (UCA), with Rhodes’ accessories photographed for the first time.
02 May 2024
The project, titled Colourful Heritage , runs from now until August 2025 and is a partnership between UCA and The Zandra Rhodes Foundation.
It will record and digitise 100 garments by Rhodes, an alum of UCA and its Chancellor Emerita, as well as 50 accessories by her, some of which made in collaboration with contemporary milliners, Stephen Jones and Piers Atkinson.
This new project builds on a digital archive of already 500 garments and more than 1,000 pages of Rhodes’ fashion drawings, which were digitised by UCA between 2011 and 2013.
Commenting on the award, Leigh Garrett, Head of Resources, Discovery & Liaison at UCA, said: “We are thrilled to have received this grant thanks to National Lottery players.
The project will have many benefits for our students and staff, but also the wider community.
As a resource, the archive has potential for many exciting and innovative projects to promote and foster the support of cultural heritage work in the UK and internationally.”
The archive will be accessible online for education and research worldwide.
The project will offer paid placements for students from UCA’s School of Fashion & Textiles and run an outreach programme for young people from socio-economically deprived backgrounds.
Dame Zandra Rhodes, who has given her whole-hearted support, added: “I feel passionate about improving the wellbeing and creative education opportunities of underprivileged young people.
“This project will not only develop the skills and employability of students at UCA but reach and inspire new audiences for heritage, not just the most privileged groups.”
The outreach part of the project will concentrate its efforts in the Medway region in Kent, which is where Zandra grew up and has high levels of disadvantaged students.
According to Medway Council’s Joint Strategic Needs Assessment (JSNA), in 2019 Medway had 37 neighbourhoods ranked in the 20% most deprived areas nationally, which is why UCA aims to prioritise underrepresented learners from this community in its outreach work.
Next Spring, UCA will host a series of workshops with school children from a quarter of all schools in the Medway region to connect them with their local heritage and share Zandra’s learned knowledge in the very place it originated.
And at the end of the project, teachers from Kent and beyond will be able to download resources for supporting Zandra’s legacy.
More information about the Colourful Heritage project can be found here .

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/blogs/uca-alumnis-script-turns-into-tom-hanks-blockbuster:
The latest movie starring the great Tom Hanks has launched on streaming service Apple TV+.
But did you know the story was born at UCA?
Meet executive producer and writer of FINCH, Craig Luck.
11 November 2021
In FINCH, Oscar winner Tom Hanks plays the titular character who builds a robot to protect the life of his dog in a post-apocalyptic landscape.
When Craig wrote the initial story while a UCA student, it was originally a short film, and the idea of Hanks playing the main character was never on the agenda.
“I wrote FINCH with no-one in mind, certainly not Tom Hanks - pie in the sky!” said Craig, who graduated from UCA in 2010 with a BA (Hons) in Film Production.
“At one time, Ian McKellen was interested in playing the role in the short film.
Working with Tom on FINCH was everything you could possibly want it to be.
Craig Luck at the FINCH premiere
In a strange, full-circle moment, Craig worked in an Apple Store after graduating, while also trying to get the short film version of FINCH - then known as BIOS - made.
But he quickly found himself working on major movies, from Kenneth Branagh’s reimagining of Cinderella, to cult series Sense8 and Marvel origin story Doctor Strange.
“I started working as a video assist technician on major feature film sets,” he said.
“It felt right to earn from the same industry I was trying to break into.
I have many great on-set experiences from this time, but the most rewarding - and one of the most difficult - would probably be ANNIHILATION.
It's such a wonderful and different film and even being a small part of that was very rewarding.”
Those long hours working on sets for other people changed when the script for FINCH was sold, with Hanks already attached alongside director Miguel Sapochnik.
Tom Hanks as FINCH.
Picture courtesy of Apple TV
“I came up with the concept through my frustration of depressing, dark and downbeat films I was watching at the time.
I love the post-apocalyptic landscape as a backdrop and writing a story within that world that was sweet, charming, and upbeat felt like a challenge worthy of trying,” he said.
“At the same time, the family dog of 15 years had to be euthanized and so all those elements were put into a melting pot and out came this story almost fully baked.
“Seeing this small project grow into what it is today is surreal.
I find it increasingly difficult to say ‘a dream come true’ because the reality is, it was beyond a dream at the time,” he added.
“If FINCH was my answer to a post-apocalyptic story then Interloper is my answer to a time-travel film,” he said.
Looking back at his time at UCA, which Craig called an emotional rollercoaster that granted him lifelong friendships, Craig said his main takeaway was the ability to listen, but also to stick to your own dreams.
“If you don't build your own dreams someone else will hire you to help build theirs,” he said.
“Don't ever give up.
It's too easy to throw in the towel and call it a day.
Failure is a part of success.
For every 3,000 ‘no thanks’ you get, there will be a single ‘yes, please’.
And sometimes that single ‘yes’ is all it'll take — even if it does take 12 years to get it.”
You can stream FINCH on Apple TV+ now.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/blogs/from-farnham-to-la:
After working on a range of high profile projects including ‘Bohemian Rhapsody’ and ‘The Dark Crystal: Age of Resistance’, filmmaker Hayley Dickinson has been signed to a US directing / writing management team and is set to move to Los Angeles.
27 February 2019
Hayley graduated with a BA (Hons) Film Production from the University for the Creative Arts (UCA) Farnham in 2016, followed by an MA in Filmmaking in 2017.
While studying for her MA, she secured her first paid role as a video trainee on the remake of ‘Murder on the Orient Express’.
The position allowed her to develop her video skills and she quickly progressed from trainee to assistant.
Hayley says: “A typical day for a video assistant involves setting up monitors and playing back clips for the director, as well as ensuring that he or she has a live picture from the camera at all times.
We also set up videos for producers, continuity, hair and make-up.
On ‘Bohemian Rhapsody’ Hayley worked with the director Dexter Fletcher on the main unit during reshoots.
She adds: “Working in video allows you to stand next to directors all day.
I shadow everything they do and use it as guidance when I’m directing my own films.
For anyone wishing to get into directing, I’d highly recommend looking at video as a starting point.”
Of her role on ‘Dark Crystal’ (a 10-part Netflix series), she said: “It was the most creative set I think I’ll ever experience — the world brought to life through the costumes and creatures is incredible.
“On most sets you’d have anywhere between four to ten monitors– we call it the video village.
But ‘Dark Crystal’ presented one of my biggest challenges yet, as all of the puppeteers needed their own monitors to see the puppets.
There were times on set when we had around 50 monitors in place.”
Throughout these high-profile assignments, Hayley has continued to work on her own film projects and she’s now in talks with distributors regarding her first feature film, ‘Slick as Thieves’.
She added: “Studying for a masters at UCA was one of the smartest decisions I ever made as it taught me not just how to be a crew member, but how to become an all-round filmmaker.
My MA film ‘Denouement’ is one of the reasons I’ve just been signed to my new role in LA."
Keep up to date with Hayley’s career via her website: www.hayleydickinson.co.uk

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/bmus-composition-for-screen:
Study and create music in specialised spaces
Work alongside filmmakers, animators, actors, and game designers
Study and create music surrounded by like-minded peers, from animators and actors to filmmakers and game designers, and collaborate on exciting projects, on our BMus (Hons) Composition for Screen degree course at UCA Farnham.
On this course, you’ll enjoy a wealth of interdisciplinary opportunities, become skilled in using the latest technologies, and enjoy building industry connections through live briefs and a work placement.
This course has contemporary practice embedded throughout, and you’ll also be encouraged to consider your work in the context of global audiences, exploring artistic practices from different cultures and countries.
Through lively and exploratory lectures, small group seminars, and one-to-one tutorials, you will be supported to develop your work and produce it professionally, and you’ll have the opportunity for it to be performed by professional musicians.
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Composition for Screen students may be interested in.
The Royal Academy of Music moves music forward by inspiring successive generations of musicians to connect, collaborate and create.
They are a meeting point between the traditions of the past and the talent of the future, seeking out and supporting the musicians of today whose music will move the world tomorrow.
Steinberg is one of the world’s largest manufacturers of audio software and hardware.
UCA is certified to deliver training in using its products.
UCA is officially certified as an AVID learning partner, meaning it can train students across our film and media courses to use AVID’s range of products, including Pro Tools, and Media Composer.
Launch Your Launch Week for Year 2 is an intensive course on narrative composition.
Composition and Sound Design 1: Composing in Time This unit advances your practical understanding of music theory and composition and introduces you to the field of sound design and Foley.
You’ll study advanced musical concepts pertaining to the composition, organisation, and perception of music in time.
You’ll also reconsider the recording studio as environment for capturing non-instrumental sounds to augment Foley and sound design in a post-production environment.
Opportunity A series of talks, masterclasses and workshops from industry professionals; All year groups.
Composition and Sound Design 2: Composing in Space This collaborative unit is intended to bring together your combined skills in music theory, composition, recording, and sound design in a group project.
You’ll work to a brief to produce an original soundtrack for moving image.
As a collaborative team, you will be expected to organise your time and plan efficient use of recording spaces and technical resources.
Placement / Live Brief For this unit you will be required to research, negotiate and undertake a self-initiated work experience placement opportunity or other professional interactions within a business appropriate to the music, sound or media industries such as a “live brief” or collaboration with a student from another course.
This placement or “live brief” should be designed to meet your own aspirational and identified developmental needs.
Launch Your final Launch Week is about listening and sharing.
Each day we will listen to an important and significant musical work in its entirety together.
Dissertation The Dissertation is documentation of a sustained academically rigorous argument.
This is normally through a written and referenced piece of writing, as might appear in a peer reviewed journal.
It may be possible to do a multimedia submission, depending on your area of focus.
You will develop and research an area of enquiry from which your question and title are formed.
You are responsible for the topic, but it will be discussed and negotiated with your course tutor.
Music Business The Music Business unit will enable you to develop strategies, plans and pragmatic information needed for your next steps in the music business.
The unit combines general knowledge on contracts, fees and rights with bespoke mentoring.
Taken together, you will create a dossier, which evidences the steps taken to prepare yourself for the future
Opportunity A series of talks, masterclasses and workshops from industry professionals for all year groups.
Final Major Project The Final Major Project is a culmination of your skills, passions and creativity.
You will develop, in coordination with the unit leader, a brief for your project.
If you are working as part of a wider collaborative team, then a defined role within the group will also be negotiated.
The brief and role description set the parameters in which you your final major project will develop.
It should be ambitious but achievable and framed within how you want to promote yourself as a composer, musician or music producer.
Alongside the project, you will be compiling a showreel of work to showcase your compositions thus far.
The unit and year will finish with a “festival” which celebrates the compositions and projects completed for this unit.
Room: RF08
This performance space contains a variety of musical instruments.
Room: W10
This studio contains musical instruments and interfaces, full AV and projector screen.
Room: JL01D
This studio contains a Mac workstation with key lab keyboard and a vocal booth with microphones.
Music is very much about collaborations and partnerships.
The course has a wide and varied network of industry partners that provide us with performance opportunities, guest lectures, and work placements.
Some of our industry links include:
We are also an official Avid Learning Partner.
Working in sound and music often leads to a varied and interesting career, frequently moving from one field into another or using a wide range of skills on a single project.
Careers directly applicable to this course include:
We will help you find the correct course for you and support you in your application should further study be for you.
"I really enjoy the availability of being creative and making any of your crazy ideas become reality.
Here at UCA you are provided any kind of assistance, equipment, time and space you need."
Reader in Music & Sound
For this course, we’ll also need to see your portfolio, if you're UK-based and you receive an offer, we'd still like to meet you at an Applicant Day.
You will be required to submit a portfolio for review.
BA/BSc Music Composition & Technology course
Abelton Push Controllers, BA (Hons) Music Composition & Technology
BA (Hons) Music Composition & Technology
Editing Suite, UCA Farnham
Performance at Farnham Museum, BA (Hons) Music Composition & Technology
Music Composition Technology students
Studio, BA (Hons) Music Composition & Technology
Amp, BA (Hons) Music Composition & Technology
Music Controllers
Music Composition Technology Performance
Recording Studio, UCA Farnham

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ba-design-for-theatre-screen:
From sets to props and costume, build new worlds for stage and screen
We foster authentic and divergent thinkers
Collaborate with students across film and performance
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our BA (Hons) Design for Theatre & Screen degree:
112 UCAS Points
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Design for Theatre & Screen students may be interested in.
THE HERDS is public art and climate action on a vast scale – an ambitious coming together of culture and climate to inspire action and reignite our connection with the natural world.
Theatre Design, Skills and Contexts You’ll create an individual set and costume design response to a specified play.
You’ll be introduced to studio practice through research, text analysis, interpretation, storyboard, and 2D/3D processes.
You’ll also be introduced to the study histories, theories and practices that inform global performance design.
It will equip students to understand how our social identities (such as gender, race/ethnicity, class, disability, sexual orientation, and religion) contribute to the inclusion and/or exclusion of individuals in creative spaces.
Design and Agency This unit will engage you in responding collaboratively to a current socio-cultural issue.
Through negotiating and adopting roles within a team, you will create either a time-based or installation-based response to a theme resonating with social justice, environmental concerns or related issues.
This unit is all about collaborative working, enhancing awareness of current issues and stimulating resourcefulness in devising an effective response under time and resource constraints.
Screen - Design, Skills and Contexts In order to develop an understanding of how different elements of a design contributes to a whole, you’ll explore a range of approaches, methods and techniques where creative manipulation and digital interventions promotes dramatic storytelling.
You’ll practice the skills needed in costume-making, prop-making, and/or scenic art alongside skills in communication and co-working to develop a cohesive visual language.
You’ll also build on your knowledge of histories, theories and practices that inform global performance and production.
Employment Contexts You’ll be required to deliver an ‘industry report’ on chosen companies or individuals who are directly or indirectly involved in the performance industry, nationally or internationally.
In order to begin the process of seeing yourself as part of the professional world, you’ll familiarise yourself with careers websites, be guided to subject-specific resources, and attend Careers and Employability sessions that are deemed relevant for your stage of learning.
Puppetry and Portfolio Explore new performance design techniques and processes, and refine and develop current skills practice, through the creation of puppets.
The unit facilitates opportunities for individual working or for collaborating within or outside of the cohort.
Theatre or Screen - Adaptation You’ll be challenged to transform a play text into a new speculative adaptation with contemporary resonance.
You may choose to adapt across genres to create an original visual environment or form.
Through a close reading and incisive investigation of a text’s contemporary resonance, you will develop the conceptual framework that will underpin the development of your project.
Alongside this work you’ll develop your understanding of the critical and theoretical ideas within the context of modernity, postmodernity and post-colonialism.
Through the examination of current critical perspectives on contemporary art, design, film and performance, we want you to consider ways in which contemporary work addresses the social and political issues of the day.
Theatre or Screen – Making This unit is all about turning design concepts into practical scenic elements.
You’ll choose a specific discipline such as model-making, costume realisation, prop making, etc., to make scenic elements that interpret others’ designs – ensuring that what you make works conceptually but also practically.
The unit allows for work to be individual or collaborative, speculative or live.
Professional and Collaborative Practice This unit is all about expanding opportunities within the working world, with several options available.
You can undertake a self-initiated work experience spell or placement, a collaborative project with external organisations, or a mix of both.
Whichever you choose you’ll have to put together a Learning Agreement plan before you start, a private blog for critical reflection, and a reflective evaluation after you complete the task.
There is a choice of elective units available and more details of the units available will be provided to you once on the course.
Minor Project You’ll undertake a design project within the context of a speculative performance, with the objective to synthesise knowledge, understanding, and practice acquired throughout the first two stages of the course.
You may extend this through to your Major Project, with emphasis on developing the same text across both timelines.
The unit will comprise three elements – project development, outcome, and professional preparation.
Critical investigation Your development as a designer-maker is supported in this unit by enabling you to identify research that is contextually meaningful to your studio practice and to articulate critical arguments around this research.
You’ll put together a 10 to 15-minute formative presentation of your research and lines of argument, and either a 5,000-word individually negotiated Critical Investigation or a 25 to 30-minute individually negotiated audio-visual presentation.
Opportunity Week The final Opportunity Week comprises of a series of interdisciplinary lectures, seminars and workshops centred around life after graduation.
This week will help students develop their understanding of the creative industries, working professional environment and what they can expect after graduation.
Self-directed Final Major Project For your final project, your output may take a variety of forms.
If you chose to work collaboratively through to production presentation/realisation within the Minor Project, you may now embark on a new design project.
Or if you developed a comprehensive design proposal in the Minor Project, you can take that further to make fully realised artefacts for your portfolio.
There are three elements to this unit – the unit agreement and research document, the creative outcome, and the professional portfolio.
UCA Farnham has well-equipped 3D workshops, providing both hand and mechanical processes and high technology, from ceramic, wood and metal workshops to laser cutting and rapid prototyping.
We’re committed to fully preparing you for a successful career in addition to supporting you with the preparation of your portfolio, CV and professional profile, we encourage you to undertake work placements.
Our well-established industry connections include:
Graduate career destinations for this course include:
"The course taught me not only how to make props, sets and costumes, but how to give life to each of them.
The wide variety of skills that are taught at UCA meant that I could be useful in many departments of theatres and film productions"
Miriam Abou-Shehada
View Design for Theatre & Screen portfolio advice

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ba-studio-practice-filmmaking:
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our BA (Hons) Studio Practice (Filmmaking) (top-up) degree:
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Studio Practice (Filmmaking) (top-up) students may be interested in.
You will study alongside final year students on the BA (Hons) Film Production degree, enabling you to work collaboratively and in a vibrant setting.
Launch Through interdisciplinary seminars, screenings and workshops, Launch Week focuses on ground-breaking, creative work that has had surprised, shocked, and changed the way we view the world.
This will help you see the possibilities and potential of what you could create and achieve in your final year.
Extended Research Project Emphasising the personal development of critical writing, you’ll research and complete an independently generated and illustrated Extended Research Project.
Final Major Project: Pre-Production You’ll take on pre-production tasks relevant to your crew roles for the Final Major Project unit.
You will also successfully contextualise these roles and the projects for life after graduation, building on technical, collaborative and professional skills you have learned so far.
Opportunity Week This week comprises a series of interdisciplinary lectures, seminars and workshops centred around life after graduation.
Final Major Project: Realisation You’ll further develop your chosen role(s) and complete the projects started in the Final Major Project: Pre-Production unit through production and into post-production and final screening.
You are expected to work with a high degree of professionalism in a crew role(s,) and be challenged to further your technical and creative skills throughout.
For the assessment you will be expected to complement the on-screen work with an individual portfolio containing a critical reflection, documenting the strengths and weaknesses of the project work and your contribution, demonstrating the ability to contextualise your work in wider screen culture, and a contextual, creative and technical research folder.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ma-filmmaking:
If you’re ready to refine your storytelling, enhance your technical skills, and carve out your place in the industry, our MA Filmmaking course at UCA Farnham is the perfect next step.
Designed for aspiring filmmakers looking to specialise, this Masters in Filmmaking allows you to focus on one of five key pathways—cinematography, directing, producing, editing, or sound design—while gaining hands-on experience in all aspects of the craft.
Taught within our Film School, this filmmaking course allows you to experience the rigours of filmmaking by reflecting the realities of current film practice and collaborate with your peers on a slate of short films.
You'll also benefit from access to a fantastic selection of cutting-edge facilities and equipment.
This includes digital and 16mm cameras, advanced sound recording equipment, a purpose-built film studio and high-quality post-production suites.
We offer a filmmaking degree in the UK that will equip you with the skills, experience, and industry connections to thrive in the film industry.
Graduates from our filmmaking degree courses have worked on Oscar-winning films, box office hits, and major TV productions, as well as launching their own creative ventures.
You'll graduate from UCA with the tools to enhance your creative and technical skills as an independent filmmaker.
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our MA Filmmaking degree:
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Filmmaking students may be interested in.
Sanctioned - preview
Bottle Factory - preview
The Door of Lost Time - preview
Black or Whites - preview
Amaal - preview
Chameleon - preview
Bad Boy - preview
You'll be introduced to the University and the technical workshops and facilities available to you.
The first term includes a range of lectures and seminars and you’ll start to explore your creative practice.
Launch Your launch week is all about gaining a clear understanding of what it takes to work collaboratively through a series of workshops, fully preparing you for your year of studies.
The Craft of Filmmaking Covering producing, directing, camera, lighting, sound, editing, post-production and health and safety, this unit is designed to provide you with a comprehensive introduction to the key craft skills, techniques, and practices used in filmmaking.
You’ll demonstrate your knowledge through a combination of practical work and written assignments, including a final project where you will create your own short film.
Depending on your pathway choice, you can choose one of the following options:
Screenwriting The unit covers the fundamental concepts and techniques of scriptwriting, including story structure, character development, dialogue and formatting.
You will learn how to develop your own unique voice as a writer and how to create engaging narratives and relatable characters.
You’ll also cover formatting and industry standards for script submissions, and the role of the script in the entire filmmaking process.
Cinematography In addition to investigating the various tools and techniques used by contemporary cinematographers, you will study the technical and aesthetic evolution of cinematography, the principles of cinematography, camera movement, lighting, colour theory and health and safety.
Directing You will investigate the art, craft and techniques of directing for fiction films, engage in practical exercises to develop your skills and analyse the work of notable directors.
Subjects taught include script analysis and interpretation, film grammar, visual storytelling, and working with actors and the crew.
During term two you will begin developing your MA project, evaluating and testing out the aims of your proposal over a sustained period of self-directed study.
Opportunity Week The 48-hour Film Challenge is a filmmaking competition where in teams, the filmmakers have just 48 hours to write, shoot and edit a short film.
The week will begin with teams randomly assigned a genre, a character, a prop and a line of dialogue that must be included in the film.
They present their idea on Tuesday, and have Wednesday and Thursday to write, shoot and edit their short film.
On the final day, the films are screened for a panel of judges, who will award prizes for the best films in various categories.
Film Production (non-fiction and fiction) You’ll learn about the different roles and responsibilities of the production team and how to manage each stage of production: pre-production, production and post-production.
The unit will also cover the technical and logistical aspects of film production, such as budgeting, scheduling, assembling cast, crew and equipment, risk assessment, and health and safety.
Producing In this unit, you will investigate each stage of the contemporary film production process, including development, pre-production, production, post-production and distribution.
You’ll also learn about the financial and legal aspects of film production, including budgeting, scheduling, contracts and health and safety.
Editing and Post-Production In addition to investigating the tools and techniques used by contemporary editors, you will study technique of film editing, current editing software, workflows, use of sound and music, colour grading, and health and safety.
The unit will also cover the role of the editor in each stage of the production process.
Sound Design You’ll gain a broad understanding of the intricacies of sound design in this unit, including sound recording, Foley, editing, mixing, current recording and post-production tools, and health and safety.
The unit will also cover the role of sound design in each stage of the production process.
In the third term of the course, you'll apply the knowledge gained through your research to create a final body of work.
Final Major Project The Final Major Project is the culmination of your course, where you will conceptualise, research, develop and produce a short film or a feature-length screenplay.
For this, you will work in teams and in specific production roles.
Starting with an intensive research and development phase, the unit continues with pre-production, production, and post.
Each team’s work will be given a final screening, where the team will give a presentation.
This course prepares you for a career within the field of fiction film production and also equips you with a range of versatile skills that open up a broad variety of career paths.
Our graduates have gone on to work as directors, producers, editors, cinematographers, sound designers, screenwriting, production design and on VFX.
Additionally students undertaking this course might include work in archives, curating or distribution.
Among the productions our graduates have gone on to work on include:
"This course has given me the resources and the knowledge to start my film career.
From developing a script to shooting a professional short film, it's given me an extensive overview of all the elements of filmmaking and I've found inspiration everywhere, sharing the creative environment with people from different backgrounds and cultures.
It’s been fantastic and I couldn’t be more proud to belong to the UCA family."
Ana Pico
Please check our Filmmaking portfolio requirements and our advice on creating a strong film portfolio .

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/facilities-resources/audio-broadcast-studios:
UCA Farnham Audio & Broadcast Studios are where auditory teaching and research meet innovation.
Within this hub of creativity, you’ll find cutting-edge, specialist facilities including Radio Studios, Voice Booths, a TV & Radio Control Room, as well as Sound Studios.
Each of these areas are designed to cater to the specific needs of audio and broadcast professionals.
From devising innovative sound techniques for films to testing new broadcasting formats, the studio stands as a beacon for audio-centric research and collaboration.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/facilities-resources/creative-computing-labs:
The Creative Computing Labs (CCL) at UCA Farnham are specifically designed to optimise the potential of advanced computing and artificial intelligence.
Harnessing the technology that’s shaping our world and preparing a new generation of talent – you’ll find dual-screen computer work stations with essential software and programmes built-in.
Whether you’re exploring computer science or creative practice through innovation, knowledge exchange and research opportunities – the CCL has everything you need to excel.
Room: JL07
Room: JL08
Room: JL21A
Room: JL21B
Room: JL21C
Room: JL16
Room: G175

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/facilities-resources/lumina-media-centre:
The Lumina Media Centre at UCA Farnham is a hub of creativity that focuses on the connection between technology and storytelling.
Housing a collective of filmmakers, animators, and digital artists, it promotes research and collaborative projects.
Within the studio, you’ll find a diverse array of specialised facilities that cater to various forms of media and production.
These include the Animation IT Suite, Film Studio, Illustration Base, Animation Lightbox IT, Animation Base Room, Animation Rostrum Room, Stop Motion Space, TV Studio, Photostudio, and the Digital Photo Darkroom.
Each space is meticulously designed and equipped to support the creative endeavours of its users, and together they underline Lumina's commitment to pushing the boundaries of media and production.
Room: G14
This room contains a 73-seat cinema.
Room: G27
This studio contains:
Room: G40
Room: G28A/28B
This large photography studio contains six Bowens flash heads mounted on pantographs and a variety of light modifiers, soft boxes and shoot throughs snoots.
Room: G29
The small photography studio contains constant lighting Kenoflows mounted on pantographs.
Room: G30
This darkroom contains 12 black and white negative film enlargers and 2 sets of development trays.
Room: G30A
Room: G32
Room: G147
This room contains a C41 colour negative development machine.
Room: G148
This room contains a small tank black and white film development area.
Room: G161
Room: G171
Room: G172
This room contains a full vocal booth with mics for interviewer and guest.
Room: G173
Room: G174
This room contains a PC workstation to control other booths and the ability to record and run broadcasts.
Room: W61/62
This 70 seater lecture room has a full AV setup.
Room: B108
This room contains a Steenbeck film cutting machine.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/facilities-resources/motion-capture-studio:
At UCA Farnham, our trailblazing Motion Capture Studio uses a variety of motion capture systems to deliver a professional experience to our students, as well as external filmmakers and commercial clients.
Used mostly by students in the School of Games and Creative Technologies, the Mo-Cap Studio has everything you need for virtual production and virtual reality in visual effects, gaming, and the arts.
Providing industry-standard experience to our students and alumni, the studio features high performance cameras, microphones, and powerful monitors as well as plenty of capture space.
Watch our Games Animation students use the Mocap Studio
Motion Capture Studio
Our online graduate showcase includes a wide range of projects created within the studios.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/facilities-resources/vr-studio:
Immerse yourself in our full Virtual Production and Mixed Reality Studio, powered by White Light SmartStage technology.
Based at UCA Farnham, our expert technicians are on hand to help you develop the latest skills and techniques in the world of Mixed Reality.
You’ll master revolutionary technologies, including in-camera visual effects, XR television broadcasts, and next-generation conference presentations.
We've collaborated with industry-leading partners to provide our Studio with the latest and future-first equipment, reflecting our shared commitment to innovation and advancing XR technology .
Watch: An interview with Virtual Production Technician, Sam Garner
Inside the studio

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/blogs/film-university-portfolio-advice:
When you apply to study a Film degree at university you may be asked to submit a portfolio to support your application.
09 June 2025
For hands-on filmmaking courses like the Film Production degree at UCA , your portfolio is a chance to show your creativity, your approach to storytelling, and – perhaps most importantly – to demonstrate your potential as a filmmaker.
This guide focuses on what to include, how to present your work and what admissions tutors are really looking for.
A film university portfolio is a selection of creative work that showcases your visual storytelling skills and ideas.
Your portfolio can include film and video work, but might also include photography, scripts, storyboards, creative writing, or sketchbooks.
The exact portfolio requirements for each university may vary.
For instance, at UCA we encourage applicants to submit up to 20 pieces of work in total, which – amongst other work – should contain a maximum of three minutes of film.
Your portfolio isn’t about showcasing finely polished work, it’s about showcasing you.
Share your ideas honestly, let your personality shine through and focus on storytelling.
Whether your work is made with a phone or a DSLR, what matters most is how you use the tools you have to express your point of view.
The goal is to show your approach to storytelling, not just technical ability.
The first thing most students think to include is examples of films or videos they have worked on.
But it’s important to carefully consider what work to include.
Universities want to see pieces that showcase narrative and creative intent, so avoid submitting a showreel.
A scene or short film will be much more impactful than a montage of different works.
Take time to rewatch any film you’re considering for inclusion and ask yourself how you’d rate it for narrative and creativity.
A more creative piece with lesser quality production will likely be better received than a highly produced piece with little substance.
Beyond the film you submit, you may also want to include:
Each item should demonstrate your creative process and interest in film.
Don’t worry if your work is a little rough around the edges.
Tutors aren’t looking for finely polished work, they’re looking to learn about you and your creative process.
Hopefully the advice so far has shown that you can still build a strong portfolio even without finished films.
Regardless of if you have access to filmmaking equipment, you can still use your portfolio to express your passion and ideas.
Storyboards, scripts and photography series can convey storytelling, mood, movement and character.
A blog can explore your interest in film and showcase your understanding and admiration for cinema.
If you don’t already have a blog, you can easily set one up for free using websites such as Medium, SquareSpace or Wix.
Perhaps yours could discuss a particular aspect or genre of film that you have a special interest in.
Most universities will invite you to an applicant or interview day.
During these days you’ll be given an opportunity to present or discuss your portfolio with a course academic or admissions tutor.
For many reasons, some people are unable to attend an applicant day.
Most universities will allow you to upload your portfolio online instead when this happens.
Make sure your presentation is clean, accessible, and easy to follow:
Your future lecturers want to understand who you are as a creative.
They're looking for:
They don’t need professional-level work, just evidence that you’re passionate and full of ideas.
Still unsure what to include?
Come along to one of our upcoming Open Days where you can speak to our film academics and Admissions Team in more detail about what they expect to see in your portfolio.
You can also use our Unibuddy chat platform to speak directly to current UCA students and ask them about their portfolio.
For more inspiration you could also check out the work created by UCA Film students via our online graduate showcase .

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2025/awards-a-plenty-at-rts-southern-awards:
There were awards a plenty at the annual Royal Television Society’s (RTS) Southern Awards last week, as students from the BA (Hons) Film Production course took home Best Student Drama and Best Student Factual Short.
04 April 2025
The Extraordinary Marvel of Francesco Linguine, which won Best Student Drama, was created by third-year students Logan Tindell (Screenwriter), Brandon Sadler (Director), Elliot Duvoisin (Director of Photography), Seth Harrison (Producer) and Lily Askew (Production Designer), who all graduated last year.
Logan said: “It’s wonderful.
Seeing our little crazy film getting that level of recognition was beyond any of our expectations; which you could see if you saw our reactions when the presenter read out the winner.”
The film celebrates imaginative storytelling, recounting a story of two friends birdwatching at an old fort and discovering a dead body on the beach.
Vibrant, cinematic and elaborate theories are then concocted as to how they died.
“It was very much inspired by the works of Guy Ritchie and Edgar Wright, having both dabbled with the blend of comedy and crime, with inspirations like Wes Anderson… and Buck from Ice Age 3,” added Logan.
“I basically wrote a script for middle-aged men to remain straight-faced when portraying characters all named after different pasta!”
Best Student Factual Short was won by Tales of Exile , created by second-year students, Sambor Czarnawski-Iliev, director, Goncalo Almeida, cinematographer, Konstanse Fjellvang, editor and Nell Whitefoot, producer.
The documentary was set in the refugee camps of Jordan and followed the personal histories of Palestinian refugees, reflecting on the 76 years of exile they’ve had to endure, amid the 2024 attacks on Gaza.
Inspiration behind the film was from a visit the director made to Israel and Palestine in 2023.
“Seeing the Palestinian water tanks riddled with Israeli bullet holes, the abandoned houses half-bulldozed to make way for the walls, the desolate UNRWA refugee camp full of memorials to murdered children, it became almost of a necessity for me to make a documentary about this subject to help spread awareness through my medium; film,” explained Sambor.
“After learning about the history of Palestine and then the escalation of tensions in October 2023, when I was approached by the director, Sambor, I couldn’t refuse the opportunity to use my skills to help those in need,” added Nell.
As for filming on location in Jordan, it was a truly unique and eye-opening experience for the team.
Goncalo added: “ Adapting to the limited equipment and a small camera crew challenged me to be resourceful and creative in my approach.
It was also my first time travelling outside of Europe, and the cultural differences were fascinating and inspiring.
The warmth and hospitality of the Jordanian people made the experience even more memorable, which enabled me to create visually compelling imagery that not only complemented the narrative but also resonated with viewers on a deeper level.”
As for the future, both teams hope to screen their films at other film festivals and collaborate again in the future.
Sambor concluded: “We intend to create more documentaries about social and humanitarian issues.
Refugeeism is something I have found myself caring a lot about.
We’d love to use Tales of Exile as a proof of concept for a larger documentary filmed in the West Bank in the future.”
Faith Among The Sea, shot on location in China about the daily life of the local fisherman, was also nominated for Best Student Factual Short.
To learn more about studying film at UCA, visit the course pages.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/blogs/what-careers-can-you-do-with-a-film-degree:
When you sit down to watch a film, you’re witnessing the result of hundreds, often thousands, of people working together behind the scenes.
25 February 2025
From the earliest stages of development to the final edit, a huge range of roles are involved in bringing a story to life on screen.
If you're considering a film degree the good news is that this subject opens doors to a seemingly endless variety of exciting career paths, both on set and beyond.
Perhaps the most obvious route for film graduates is to work within the practical aspect of filmmaking.
A Film Production degree will give you hands-on training that can prepare you for various practical roles.
Many students start with entry-level roles such as production assistants or camera trainees.
They’ll then work their way up as they gain experience, often using smaller projects as an opportunity to showcase their skill.
Not all film graduates work directly on set.
The creative and analytical skills gained during a film degree also prepare you for job roles that support production process in different ways:
These careers often require a blend of creativity, logistical thinking, and communication skills.
All of these are qualities you’d gain by studying for a degree in film.
The theoretical deep-dive that  a Film Studies degree offers can pave the way to many other film-related careers, even if they seem a little less obvious!
Your ability to dissect film can make you a highly-valued employee within media or academia.
For instance:
It’s also worth noting that a film degree will give you a host of skills such as project management, storytelling and teamwork, that are highly sought-after in almost all industries and job roles.
These skills, coupled with a background in film, often lead graduates into careers in marketing, public relations, advertising, and digital content creation.
While a Filmmaking degree offers a clear and direct route into the industry, many other university courses also lead to jobs in film.
Creative universities like the UCA are full of courses loaded with talent waiting to join the film industry.
These alternative degrees show just how varied and collaborative the film industry is.
Whether animating fantastical creatures, managing production logistics or design elaborative costumes, there's more than one way to break into film.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2025/pro-bono-commercial-for-lewy-body-society:
With its global release on World Lewy Body Day, students from the University for the Creative Arts (UCA) reveal a pro-bono charity commercial, made in collaboration with Sony and Cooke Optics for The Lewy Body Society.
28 January 2025
With access to Sony’s Digital Media Production Centre Europe (DMPCE) at Pinewood, students didn’t want this to be just another student project.
BA (Hons) Film Production student and the commercial’s director, Dominic Hodgson, said: “We wanted to do something for the greater good.
I chose The Lewy Body Society because of my personal connection with it.
“Lewy Body is the second most common form of dementia, but we don’t know enough about it, so it’s important for charities like The Lewy Body Society to show that there is someone there to support people suffering from the condition.”
Watch the 'making of' the commercial:
“The charity feels privileged that we’ve had this commercial made for us”, explained Jacqueline Cannon, CEO of The Lewy Body Society.
“As a small charity, it has an enormous impact on social media and getting our name out there.
This commercial is not just something to use for a few weeks but will be ongoing.”
Shooting at Pinewood, a location students wouldn’t typically be able to film, gave them access to state-of-the-art facilities alongside Sony professionals.
This included the Sony Venice 2 camera and a set of Panchro/i Classic lenses, lent to the students by Cooke Optics, “ delivering the warm and homely tone we wanted”, said BA (Hons) Film Production student and the film’s director of photography, Stephen Bull.
“I was instantly attracted to this film because it educated me on symptoms of dementia that I wasn’t aware of,” he added.
Carey Duffy, Director of Product Experiences at Cooke Optics, said: “This project immediately sparked our interest.
It wasn’t just another student project, but a charity commercial, which was client-led and a more professional way to learn about producing content.”
Watch the final charity commercial
Stuart Newton, Regional Sales Head for Northern Europe Sony, remarked: “By taking the phenomenal technology we have at our fingertips and working closely with UCA, it can help us explore innovative new workflows that we hadn’t previously considered.”
"I am so incredibly proud of our students,” said Christopher Nicolson, UCA Associate Professor of Convergent Media.
“When they were offered access to state-of-the-art camera equipment and the SONY DMPC at Pinewood, they decided to pay this favour forward by creating a broadcast quality charity commercial, under industry best practices, for an important cause.
He added: “In doing so, they worked to an actual commercial brief given by a real client in the most professional way possible.
Speaking as someone who has employed many graduates over the years, this is bound to impress a future employer when they leave us and begin their careers”.
The commercial will also be launched at the eighth International Lewy Body Dementia Conference, which will take place 29-31 January 2025 in Amsterdam, the Netherlands.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/blogs/film-ucas-personal-statement-advice:
UCAS has transformed how personal statements work for September 2026 entry.
Gone are the days of one long essay.
Instead, you’ll need to answer three questions that are designed to make the process clearer and fairer for all applicants.
07 January 2025
Each answer requires a minimum of 350 characters, but the overall limit is 4,000 characters (around 700-800 words) so don’t feel the need to stop once you reach the minimum character count.
The new UCAS personal statement format is a great opportunity to showcase your creativity, inspiration, motivation, and experience in a more focused and authentic way.
Universities want to see more than just a list of qualifications.
This is your chance to express your passion for film.
Getting started with your personal statement can often feel like a intimidating task, so we’ve broken down each question to show you how to craft compelling responses that are tailored to film-related courses.
Think about what drew you to film and what motivates you to study it at university.
This section is about your academic preparation for university.
How have your school or college experiences helped you build technical skills and knowledge that you will use as part of a film degree?
This is where you highlight any personal projects, work (paid or voluntary) and other activities that show your initiative, dedication, and creativity.
This new UCAS format for 2026 gives you the chance to break down your personal journey into clear sections.
If you’re applying for a Film degree , it means showcasing your creativity and commitment.
Be honest, be specific and, most of all, be passionate.
Want more support about UCAS personal statements?
Meet the UCA Admissions Team at one of our upcoming Open Days for one-to-one advice.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/blogs/theatre-design-grads-get-wicked-experience:
Two UCA graduates were involved in creating the on-screen magic of Wicked, the timeless tale of witches Glinda and Elphaba which has graced theatres for more than 20 years and finally hits cinemas next month.
18 November 2024
Above, a promotional image for the movie Wicked.
Picture: UNIVERSAL PICTURES UK
UCA Design for Theatre and Screen grads Hannah Morton and Josh Cranston had roles in costuming for the film version of Wicked , starring Ariana Grande and Cynthia Erivo, which will be released this week.
We caught up with them to find out more about the experience.
Hi Hannah and Josh, congratulations!
How did this incredible opportunity come about?
Hannah: During my first year, my costume tutor, Ella, was a costume maker working in industry.
In her classes I worked hard, and tried to get as much out of them and from her as possible, knowing I wouldn’t have many better opportunities to get to know the industry.
I guess my work ethic and attitude were noticed because Ella contacted me during the summer of my first year and asked if I would like to help.
I immediately jumped on the opportunity and said yes!
Josh: In my first year, we had Ella, a lovely costume maker, come and teach us the basics of costuming.
I was enjoying learning (with no previous knowledge) and was enthusiastic about doing bits in my own time, which Ella noticed.
Then she asked if I would like to work on this with her.
What was your role in the production itself?
What was a typical day on set like?
Josh: We were working in Elstree Studio's workshop space, doing tasks you may not think would be a part of costume making - applying millinery thickener, using a hot knife to cut rigid plastic material and more common tasks, like pattern cutting.
The workload differed each day, but to begin our two weeks we made some smaller things, then we spent most days doing odd jobs like pinning and stripping reels of boning for the plastic cord.
The final few days we were needed in the alterations department of the new Sky Studios buildings.
We worked from 7am to 5 or 6pm in the evening - so long days, but never monotonous or lacking excitement!”
Hannah: My role was titled student costume maker, and I basically did anything that was needed of me - mainly jobs like cutting fabric pieces and making smaller details.
Most days I was doing something different, but the general routine was very regular, starting at 8am and always having a morning tea!
I would go to Ella, who was head cutter,  and get my job for the morning.
After lunch I would either continue my job from the morning or move on to something else.
If there was nothing immediate that needed to be done, I would ask around the workroom and try and help as many people as possible.
The day would end around 6pm and we would tidy our areas of the workroom before heading home.
What are you most proud of from your experience on set?
Hannah: I’m most proud of how I carried myself and gave it everything I had, as I was very nervous being surrounded by professionals in my dream job.
Josh: I am proud of the quality and efficiency I was able to maintain throughout every day.
It also feels quite prestigious to be able to work on such a project at such an early stage in my life.
What inspired you to take up Design for Theatre and Screen as a degree – and what made you choose UCA?
Josh: I have always been a hands-on person, doing a lot of woodwork and metal work throughout schools and college.
I then began to make things from, or inspired by, films I loved growing up.
In terms of choosing UCA, things just fell into place with it being close to me personally, and the description of the course felt like the best fit out of all my options.
Hannah: I’ve always been interested in film and theatre, as I love being transported to different worlds.
As I got older, I wanted to make my own.
However, I wasn’t sure which aspect I wanted to make, so finding Design for Theatre and Screen, which covers everything, was a dream.
I chose UCA because of the wide range of facilities - from screen printing to the wood workshop and everything in between, as well as the opportunity to work alongside tutors and technicians who also work in industry.
I knew the only limitations for my work would be my own imagination.
What advice would you give to anyone considering studying Design for Theatre and Screen at UCA?
Hannah: Go for it!
Give it your all, work hard and keep an open mind!
Truly the only thing that will hold you back is yourself and what you can design and make!
Josh: Make sure you don’t turn opportunities down right away - I have found plenty of skills that I enjoy practicing but which, if I had been presented with the opportunity when I was younger, I wouldn't have taken the chance to develop.
Interested in following in Josh and Hannah’s footsteps?
Check out our course pages .
Wicked is released in cinemas nationwide on Friday (22 November).

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/blogs/what-degree-did-these-famous-filmmakers-do:
When we think of legendary director it's usually their captivating storytelling and cinematic vision that come to mind, not their academic backgrounds.
But how did they get to where they are today?
Did they go to university?
And if so, what did they study?
10 October 2024
We’ve delved into the educational backgrounds of some of iconic filmmakers to uncover the diverse and often surprising academic paths they took before breaking into the film industry.
While not every notable director, writer, or producer went to university, those who did reflect just how varied and interdisciplinary the film industry is.
Director of some of the most iconic films of the last 50 years including Taxi Driver, Casino and The Departed, Martin Scorsese studied film communications at New York University's School of Film.
The university now has a department named after him: the Martin Scorsese Department of Cinema Studies.
Before directing Lady Bird, Barbie and Little Women, Greta Gerwig initially planned to study musical theatre, but instead opted to study English and Philosophy.
Director of A Wrinkle in Time and Selma, Ava DuVernay completed a double major degree in English Literature and African-American Studies.
Spike Lee graduated with a degree in Mass Communication and later gained Master's degree in Film and Television, before going on to direct dozens of critically acclaimed films such as Malcom X, Iside Man and BlacKkKlansman.
Kathryn Bigelow's work on The Hurt Locker saw her become the first woman to win the Academy Award for Best Director.
She initially studied painting, but after gaining an interest in filmmaking joined Columbia University's graduate film school.
She also went on to teach film at university level.
Danny Boyle is an icon of British cinema, directing film such as Trainspotting and 28 Days Later, as well as the London 2012 Olympics Opening Ceremony.
He studied an English and Drama degree before launching his career in film.
Bong Joon Ho, director of Academy Award-winning film Parasite, majored in Sociology before going on to study filmmaking at the Korean Academy of Film Arts.
Several notable names in the film community started their film journey at the University for the Creative Arts:
Photo credits: Martin Scorsese (Harald Krichel), Ava DuVernay (Stephanie Moreno), Danny Boyle (Maximilian Bühn).

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2024/uca-stars-in-heartstopper:
Heartstopper Season 3 has returned to our screens and the University for the Creative Arts (UCA) can exclusively reveal what happened when Heartstopper came to film at its campus.
03 October 2024
For a limited time, UCA’s Farnham campus was transformed into the Lambert School of Art – where one of the show’s main characters, Elle (Yasmin Finney) is a student.
Working with See-Saw Films on the Netflix hit show, UCA saw its illustration department turned into an art studio, green room, and staging area, its music studios became a radio station, while its central quad and a mural by MA Fine Art graduate Olawafemi Babalola were backdrops to scenes with the show’s stars.
Alice Oseman, the author of the graphic novel series of the same name, on which Heartstopper’s based, told Netflix:
‘ While Heartstopper will always celebrate the joyful and point towards hope, I’m really excited that we are allowing the tone of the show to mature alongside our beloved characters growing up.
Mental health, sex, university ambitions, and more.’
Tao Xu, played by William Gao, joined Elle in scenes shot at UCA, which also included scenes with her parents and new friends from Lambert School of Art – Naomi, played by Bel Priestley, and Felix played by Ash Self.
Bel told Attitude magazine, ‘ I think Heartstopper is great at breaking boundaries, and I think they’re just doing it better and bette r.
“ To focus so much on the joy that can come with being trans in the community is so refreshing,” added Ash.
Other beloved characters who appeared in scenes shot at the University included Charlie (Joe Locke), Nick (Kit Connor), Darcy (Kizzy Edgell), Tara (Corinna Brown), and Isaac (Tobie Donovan).
UCA students also got an opportunity to get involved with the production, working as supporting actors and assisting the production team.
Ffion Austin, an acting student said : “I found the experience surprising – I wasn’t expecting it to be so friendly and chilled.
When you’re not filming your sitting with people and making new friends.
I now know what to expect and how to approach the industry in the future – how to prepare, relax into it, and not worry.”
You can watch Season 3 of Heartstopper on Netflix now and tune in to episodes 3, 4, 6, 7, and 8 to see UCA’s starring role!

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/blogs/a-day-in-the-life-of-a-fine-art-student:
From editing in the studio, meeting with artists and working in the gallery, Ellie Turner describes how no day is the same when studying Fine Art at UCA Farnham.
22 January 2019
As a third year Fine Art student, I’m always busy planning projects and writing.
Generally, Mondays and Tuesdays are filled with important lectures for our ‘Realising Professional Practice’ Unit, where we apply to open calls, jobs and postgraduate courses in prep for life after uni.
Wednesday is our ‘study day’ AKA day off, however for the most part everyone is in the studio making, building or having dissertation meetings.
Thursday is a lot like Wednesday but with the steady on-set panic for the end of the week.
Today, Friday, artist Ben McDonnell is coming in to plan and chat at 2.00pm.
He is the second artist this academic year showing at ‘Black Box’, a curatorial project space me and a group of peers manage in addition to our study units for Fine Art.
Something that we all find loads of fun, it taught us important skills like curating, fundraising, liaising with artists and general organisational skills.
Despite Friday also being a ‘study day’ it is by far one of the busiest, with everyone tying up what they started on Monday or on-going projects.
I wake up and look for the will to live — just kidding!
I lay in bed for an hour scrolling through Instagram and answering any important emails.
I get out of bed.
I always eat in the morning because I’m always so hungry .
I eat leftover dinner from the night before and make food to take with me, saving me money to go out on the weekend.
Getting ready super quickly, I have my routine down to a ‘T’ and leave the house at 9.30am to get in for 10am.
I walk in with one of my best mates Jenny and we meet two more friends on the way.
Every Monday we start at 9.30am and receive our briefing for the week.
Although the projects are self-directed, we meet with our Course Leader who tells us about any upcoming deadlines or events coming up.
For example, on Tuesday we had a visit from an artist studying for their PhD at the Royal College of Art.
On all the other days we aim to get in for 10.00am.
Today we went to photocopy our passports ready for a class trip to Berlin we’re going on soon.
As a class, we’re always getting out and about, seeing shows in London and once a year we go abroad.
Last year we went to the Venice Biennial — it was amazing!
Since Monday I’ve been editing my life away on Premiere Pro which I learnt to use from YouTube and workshops during my first year.
Risk assessments in Fine Art are second nature.
Like most of the courses at UCA, any projects that require taking equipment off-site or risqué artworks need to be checked first.
I’ve been finishing off the assessment for taking equipment off site for the exhibition at Chelsea.
Before an artist visits, we have a meeting where we discuss all our ideas of what we need to go through with them.
(And scheming to take over the world…)
The visiting artist, Ben McDonnell, comes in and tells us about what he’s creating for Black Box.
We do some planning and liaising around dates and times, which are all important skills for our future careers.
It’s a great opportunity to chat about our practice and our futures to an artist outside of UCA.
New artists typically come and show every three weeks, then the process starts again!
We were chatting for a good two to three hours, finalising our plans for when he comes in Tuesday to start making the work with our help.
Back to editing karaoke, slowly going mad but enjoying it.
I leave the studio every day at 5.20pm — the structured day ends at 4.30pm but normally everyone stays until a bit later.
I have a part-time job in Farnham town for an hour and half, Mondays and Fridays, so I stay working in the studio (more editing) then start work at 5.30pm.
Personally, I find it easier working in the evening than a block day because it means I can dedicate my weekdays to being at uni.
Sometimes I work at the weekends as a gallery assistant in UCA’s James Hockey gallery, but for the most part I have my weekends free to do whatever — fab!
The weekdays are normally very long, but it’s always really rewarding and I wouldn’t change it.
When I finally get home I eat everything!
Normally my mate Karl is round before I get in and has already started making food.
We do a trip to Sainsbury’s together to get snacks, and then my boyfriend makes us all watch a random film which I always end up falling asleep to.
Thank you for reading.
— Ellie

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/blogs/uca-graduate-takes-on-new-role-at-smithsonian:
Cassidy Moses, new Audience Engagement Facilitator at the National Museum of African American History and Culture, tells us how her Fashion Promotion and Imaging degree has helped her career.
19 December 2019
UCA Fashion Promotion and Imaging graduate Cassidy Moses initially wanted to work in fashion and direct editorial photoshoots like American Vogue’s creative director, Grace Coddington.
But the skills she gained on her course, coupled with a deep desire to bring art to a wider audience, have earned her an exciting role at the National Museum of African American History and Culture (NMAAHC) in Washington, DC.
Virginia-born with Jamaican heritage, Cassidy came to the UK to study after being inspired by a copy of i-D magazine.
She’d never even left the USA before coming to the Epsom campus, but after finding American courses to be too general, she found UCA to offer just the kind of learning environment her creative mind needed.
“In America, you have to take all of these core classes like maths, history, science, etc, alongside your chosen course.
But at UCA, all I had to focus on was my creative course and theory, which turned out to be the most enlightening type of study I’ve ever been exposed to,” she says.
“It probably had something to do with our incredible tutor, Lynda Fitzwater.
We had in depth discussions about theories around sub-cultures, representation, the environment and so much more.
Those conversations gave me a firm ground to build my creative ambitions.
I felt empowered to express myself through our assignments.”
After she graduated, Cassidy worked with prolific cultural artist Tim Okamura as an office manager, having undertaken a work placement with him during her studies.
“My course drew me towards working for people and organizations that are passionate about bringing art to more people,” she said.
“Tim’s paintings represent those who aren’t usually seen in the fine art world, and carry messages of love, peace, and equality.
“While I was studying at UCA, we were encouraged to go to exhibitions regularly, and that exposure had a huge impact on me.
I felt connected to artists through their work and had the opportunity to learn more about them through museum programs like talks and screenings.
I decided I wanted to be a part of providing that inspiration for others.”
With a recommendation from Tim, together with support from another artist, Charles Jean-Pierre, and one of her UCA tutors, Laura Vent, Cassidy made her first move towards her goal, starting an internship at the National Museum of African Art (NMAfA).
The Museum is part of the Smithsonian Institution, the world’s largest museum and research complex, in Washington, DC.
“My summer internship at NMAfA taught me all that goes into planning public programs,” Cassidy explains.
“There were so many little checks and balances that had to be worked out, which I didn’t anticipate.
I learned that free programs bring people of all backgrounds to a space where we can all feel like students, eager to learn.
I felt connected to certain cultures and discovered that the way I had learned about their history when I was growing up had been really muddled.”
She’s most recently become an Audience Engagement Facilitator at the NMAAHC, again located at the Smithsonian.
She helps to organise future public programs and deliver current programs, including See Me, which brings people with Dementia and Alzheimer’s disease into the museum, along with their caregivers.
“It’s a truly remarkable program, because it brings in people who wouldn’t usually feel welcome in the museum setting and presents art to them in a way that they can relate to it.
It’s designed to exercise their minds, and possibly trigger their memories,” she says.
Cassidy believes that her course helped her prepare for her new role in more ways than she expected.
“The variety of workshops we had at UCA were always opening up new possibilities for me,” she says.
“We learned about public speaking, how to work within a group, and how to market yourself.
These experiences have helped me to be able to voice my opinion among colleagues, to have fresh ideas about how programs can function, and to approach planning in a way that keeps me connected to those we are providing for.”
Cassidy hopes to bring mindfulness and wellness into her future programs, and to help instigate positive experiences through history, art and culture.
“People from all backgrounds come to this museum, and that can sometimes heighten tensions,” she said.
“But I believe that with the right environment, all of those differences are constructive.
They help foster new perspectives and realisations on how we are all connected.”

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ba-fine-art-canterbury:
Diversity of people and practices are celebrated and vital here
Strong community links including Folkestone Triennial and Turner Contemporary
The facilities and opportunities in Canterbury are second-to-none
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our BA (Hons) - Canterbury Fine Art degree:
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Fine Art students may be interested in.
Course talk with Mavernie Cunningham
Contemporary Practice Toolkit This module introduces you to contemporary art studio methodologies, emphasising discovery through making.
A series of loose conceptual briefs will be set as you begin your art school journey, in order to assess previous knowledge and experiences and to introduce you to more independent and self-guided practices.
Thinking Contemporary Art This module introduces you to the teaching approaches of art school.
It connects studio practice to wider issues and concerns to help you to begin to understand the current state of fine art discourse and develop your place within it.
Practical workshops will focus on thinking about art as a collection of forms, concepts and creative methods for addressing personal, ideological, socio-political, environmental, and cultural questions.
These workshops set a baseline of experience and knowledge that will create a foundation for the further development of individualised practices.
Initiating Practice You will be guided to begin to evaluate and set the course for the needs of your own individual practice.
This module emphasises the translation of concepts into art and on building communities as artists with unique practices both within the cohort and the larger campus.
Art in Context You will explore how art practice is shaped by cultural, historical, environmental, and social contexts – questioning not just what we make but why we make.
You will investigate the interconnections between art and the larger social dynamics that shape our culture, such as ethnicity, class, gender, sexuality, being human and our relationship to nature and the environment.
Developing Practice At the beginning of your second year, this module challenges you to evaluate and develop your practice through new creative and conceptual approaches.
You will deepen your understanding of processes, materials, and methods, using the studio as a site for speculative exploration and critical inquiry.
The module emphasises the refinement of practical skills through imaginative experimentation, allowing you to broaden your range of practical outcomes.
Making Communities In the second year of the course, you will engage directly with situating your ideas and practice within the communities in which you reside and beyond.
This module encourages you to apply the material, skills, and discussions you have developed in theoretical terms to hands-on, community-focused projects.
Expanding Practices This module focuses on the expansion and diversification of your practice, encouraging you to adopt a research-driven, interdisciplinary, and innovative approach.
You will experiment with expanded creative methodologies, refining how you integrate theory and practice while exploring the potential of your work in public contexts.
This includes thinking critically about the public-facing opportunities for your work—how, where, and why it engages with audiences.
Making Public This module explores the different ways you, as an artist, can make your work public.
You will create and present work for public audiences, considering activities such as exhibition-making and community engagement.
The module emphasises testing ideas in real-world contexts and encourages you to think critically about the relationship between your practice and its audience.
Practice as Research This module focuses on independent research informing creative practice.
You will explore advanced research methodologies and critically connect theory to practice; applying research to inform and innovate your creative practice, fostering connections between historical, theoretical, and contemporary contexts.
Contemporary Platforms This module explores the multiple paths that those with a BA (Hons) in Fine Art might take, inviting you to design your own forward-looking life curriculum.
A central focus of the module is on professional studies and practice in preparation for your final module (e.g., Degree Show, public facing exhibitions, publications, workshops etc).
Consolidating Practice You will create a significant body of work, culminating in a public presentation or exhibition that demonstrates your artistic vision and professional readiness.
You will be required to demonstrate a high level of analytical, critical, practical, and technical skills, ensuring your work is appropriate to the production and reception of contemporary artworks.
As the culmination of your studies, this module encourages you to consolidate all aspects of your practice, preparing you for professional opportunities, future creative challenges, and the next phase of your artistic career.
Across the entire duration of this course you will be required to maintain and evolve a Progression Portfolio.
Through this you will learn how to curate and build a document of all of your research and developmental/experimental work across each unit of the course.
This portfolio will allow you to reflect, review, update and present all of your unit outcomes in one place to demonstrate your knowledge/understanding, technical and professional skills as a practitioner.
This will also form an important component for each assessed element of the course.
We have a number of large studios which used for group tutorials and personal working.
There are campus 3D workshops with machines for working in wood, metals, plastics and ceramics.
As a long-established course, we have a developed Kent wide network which gives our students access to some of the most respected names in the creative industries, including:
While many of our alumni have developed careers as established artists, others have chosen to apply their talents to other fields, becoming:
Programme Director of Fine Art
Senior Lecturer in Printmaking
Senior Lecturer in Sculpture
Reader in Photography
Reader in Film, Art & Philosophy
Professor of Time Based Media
Reader in History and Theory of Contemporary Art
Professor of Experimental Film
"My art practice has really developed; I’ve learnt so much about modern art history and practicing artists that I couldn’t have attained elsewhere.
I’m a lot more confident in myself as an artist."
Ronan Alice Porter
View Fine Art portfolio advice

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ba-fine-art-farnham:
Learn about yourself as much as you do about your art
Collaborate with our photography and digital art students
You’ll get multiple opportunities to showcase your work externally
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our BA (Hons) - Farnham Fine Art degree:
BA (Hons) Fine Art course talk
Many of the workshops on offer will be programme wide and will be enhanced with subject specific learning.
The Real This is a programme-wide unit, run in course-specific groups, giving you with the opportunity to investigate core subject-specific themes and ideas interpreted through the lens of ‘the real’.
Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity You’ll be able to demonstrate an awareness of how your own social identity (such as, gender, race/ethnicity, class, disability, sexual orientation, and religion) informs how you navigate creative practices.
Photography This is an interdisciplinary skills-based elective unit open to Fine Art and Digital Arts students and introduces you to multiple photography skills to build and enhance your existing skill set.
Opportunity During this opportunity week you will receive one personal tutorial that feeds back on the previous terms work.
There will also be a number of refresher workshops designed to recap on any skills.
Professional Identities This employment-focused programme-specific unit offers you the opportunity to identify relevant professional contexts and navigate your relationship with these contexts.
Learning Enhancement In this unit, you’ll have the opportunity to undertake enhanced subject-specific workshops and training to enrich your existing skill set.
Spatial Practices You’ll explore spatial practices and their relationship to ideologies and systems of power, looking at the ways in which fine art practices document, intersect with, and subvert traditional approaches to space and place.
Conceptual disciplinary elective This research-informed, conceptually driven interdisciplinary elective unit is for Fine Art, Digital Arts, and Photography students, to meet your own bespoke learning journey.
Opportunity During this opportunity week you will receive one personal tutorial that feeds back on the previous terms work and take part in workshops designed to recap on any skills that was omitted during term 1.
Expanded practices You’ll explore fine art as an expanded field of creative practice, and how it can open out across multiple mediums and engages with the world.
Professional development You’ll build on the work you did in Year 1 on your professional outlook, develop the necessary skills to confidently engage with relevant professional contexts, and putt together a professional experience plan.
Professional experience Following on from the previous unit, you’ll get the opportunity to engage with external-facing professional contexts as part of your journey from student to graduate.
This will enable you to understand how your practice sits within a range of professional contexts outside of an educational environment.
Final Major Project - development You’ll begin developing work for your final major project, identifying and experimenting with a range of relevant creative and technical methodological approaches in a way that reflects your own research interests.
Critical contexts Drawing from interdisciplinary approaches to gathering research, you’ll be able to synthesise and contextualise your research interests within relevant critical contexts through either the written or spoken word.
Opportunity During this opportunity week you will receive a personal tutorial that feeds back on the previous terms work, and work independently to refine your final major project.
There are extensive studio spaces and access to work shop for painting, sculpture, wood and plaster and mould making; campus print studios with relief and block printing, plate or stone lithography, intaglio, letterpress, photopolymer plate printing and screen-printing; metals workshop with blacksmithing area and forge for large scale projects and also lathes, mills and bandsaw; modern library with a wealth of books, journals, special collections and online resources.
Campus print studios with relief and block printing, plate or stone lithography, intaglio, letterpress, photopolymer plate printing and screen-printing
As a long-established and well connected course, Fine Art at our Farnham campus has strong industry links with highly regarded names in the art world, including:
Students have exhibited at galleries such as 242 Gallery, 10 Gales, Blyth Gallery at Imperial College London, Bargehouse in South Bank and so on.
They've exhibited locally at The Lightbox in Woking, James Hockey Gallery and Alice Holt Forest in Farnham and Watts Gallery in Guildford.
They've also been selected for Bloomberg New Contemporaries, the Jerwood Drawing Prize and the Threadneedle Prize, amongst other competitions.
Our alumni have won the Jerwood Drawing Prize, John Walker Painting Prize and Neo Art Print Prize, and recent graduates have gone on to become practicing:
The adaptability instilled in our students has translated into exciting and diverse opportunities for many of our graduates, such as creating concert projections for Madonna, collaborations with Sadler’s Wells and the highly specialist casting of human organs for medical research.
"I loved that, through the work on the course, I could participate in different areas of exhibition-making, fundraising events, work placements opportunities, internships, workshops and more."
Catinca Malaimare
Programme Director of Fine Art & Photography
Senior Lecturer in Fine Art
Senior Lecturer in Photography
Subject Lead BA Fine Art / Yr3 Pathway Leader
Senior Lecturer in Fine Art (Year 1 Pathway Leader)
Subject Leader MA and MFA Fine Art Farnham and Senior Lecturer in Fine Art
Reader in Fine Art & Relational Practices
Professor of Photography
Emeritus Professor
Lecturer in Photography
Professorial Fellow
Lecturer Fine Art - Moving Image
Senior Lecturer in Fine Art Painting

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ba-photography-farnham:
Push your photographic boundaries and turn your passion into a career
Professional experience is written into the course programme
Our award-winning graduates have work displayed internationally
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our BA (Hons) Photography degree:
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Photography students may be interested in.
Photography portfolio advice
You will be introduced to a range of skills workshops designed to audit and refresh your existing skills in order to prepare you for the commencement of the course learning, including an introduction to 35 ml cameras and how to process a black on white film to ensure that basic skills are refreshed at the beginning of the course learning programme.
Printmaking This is an interdisciplinary skills-based unit open to Photography students that introduces you to different printmaking processes.
Opportunity During this opportunity week, you will receive one personal tutorial that feeds back on the work of the previous term.
Learning Enhancement In this unit, you’ll have the opportunity to undertake enhanced subject-specific workshops and training to enrich your existing skillset.
Spatial Practices You’ll explore spatial practices and their relationship to ideologies and systems of power, looking at the ways in which photography practices document, intersect with, and subvert traditional approaches to space and place.
Conceptual Disciplinary Elective You’ll have the opportunity to select either a discipline-specific or an interdisciplinary elective unit from within the programme, in order to build on and enrich your existing learning.
Each elective will include practice-led, research-driven lectures and seminars, supported by relevant skills workshops.
Opportunity During this opportunity week you will receive one personal tutorial that feeds back on the work of the previous term and take part in workshops designed to recap on any skills that were omitted during term 1.
Expanded Practices You’ll explore photography as an expanded field of creative practice, and how it can open out across multiple mediums and engage with the world.
Professional Development You’ll build on the work you did in Year 1 on your professional outlook, develop the necessary skills to confidently engage with relevant professional contexts, and put together a professional experience plan.
Professional Experience Following on from the previous unit, you’ll get the opportunity to engage with external-facing professional contexts as part of your journey from student to graduate.
Photographic studios plus access to hire cameras, tripods and lighting equipment from the media stores.
Colour and black and white darkrooms for traditional printing from small, medium and large-format negatives.
Photography studios and digital area with medium and large format printers and digital scanners.
On-campus media store with good supply of 16mm, super 16mm, digital HD video cameras and high-end sound recording equipment to hire.
As a long-established photography course, our renowned teaching team bring with them high-profile industry connections, both nationally and internationally.
We regularly arrange visits to, and lecturers from, a wide range of companies and institutions, such as:
As well as a course team including a number of practising professionals, we're connected with the Association of Photographers, a national body that works to give student members a head-start as photographic practitioners.
Skilled and creatively gifted photographers are needed across an enormous range of industries, and many of our graduates have secured professional roles in a variety of fields, including:
Alumni of this course include Paul Seawright, Gareth McConnell, Eileen Perrier, Andrew Bruce, Jane Bown, Stephen Bull and Anna Fox.
"Having the opportunity to be so ambitious and free with photography has to be the best and most enjoyable aspect of the course, because it provides you with the opportunity to truly create a body of work which you are genuinely interested in and motivated to develop."
Alice Andrew
View Photography portfolio advice

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ba-studio-practice-fine-art:
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our BA (Hons) Studio Practice (Fine Art) (top-up) degree:
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Studio Practice (Fine Art) (top-up) students may be interested in.
As you join the course you'll be alongside final year undergraduate students, meaning you'll get straight to the action with practical and research-based projects.
Units include:
Studio Development This unit prepares you for the culmination of Degree Show and anticipates potential approaches in studio practice.
You will produce a body of work, an artist statement and developmental work.
With the support of tutors and peers, you are asked to recognise strategies to work towards a critically informed practice that advances the trajectory of your work.
Running in parallel with the Contextual Development unit, this unit encourages you to consider what you intend to create for the Degree Show unit and the shape of your future.
Degree Show: Final Major Project This final unit requires demonstration of an independent and critically informed practice.
Refining an approach to presenting work under exhibition conditions is a key aspect of this unit.
The research skills and criticality developed through past units are designed to support your practice in this final stage of the course.
This unit is supported by a series of seminars and workshops on the professional practice of Fine Art, including postgraduate options.
Your artist statement will form part of your professional portfolio outlining the ideas and influences that inform your work, refined from previous attempts in order to reflect your final public studio submission.
Contextual Development Building on earlier theoretical study, this unit enables students to continue engagement with research and practical interests.
Students are asked to develop a methodological approach, appropriate to their chosen subject area and working with academic conventions to produce a written work alongside an optional artefact.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ma-curating:
UCA’s Curating degree course is a theoretically informed and practice-based programme that opens up the world of contemporary curating.
Taught at UCA Canterbury, it is embedded in a culture and environment of practice that opens up a range of curatorial opportunities.
This course is designed to provide comprehensive professional experiences and real-world opportunities.
You will develop a versatile skill set in critical discourse, analytical thinking, creative exploration, contextual study in the context of exhibition planning, presentation, installation, documentation, archiving, interpretation, and project management.
You will have direct engagement with a broad art community, from blue chip galleries to art fairs and festivals to regional arts organisation events, fostered by mentors who are active and influential practitioners in their fields.
It's not just about acquiring knowledge.
It’s about immersing yourself in an environment that fosters innovative thinking and broad perspectives.
It prepares you for a dynamic career in the art world, equipping you to become a leader in shaping the future of contemporary art curation.
Your learning journey will be enriched by UCA's thriving gallery programme, with its multiple sites and networks, including connections to the emerging art scenes in South East coastal regions like Margate, Dover, Whitstable, Folkestone and Hastings, as well as to arts organisations across Surrey, Kent and London.
Plus, there is The program's connections with world-class institutions like the British Centre for Photography, Tate, and the National Portrait Gallery, along with UCA's global presence, provide a unique platform for global arts engagement.
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our MA/MFA Curating degree:
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Curating students may be interested in.
Experimental Curating You’ll undertake an in-depth exploration of experimental curatorial practices, emphasising the interplay of physical or virtual exhibition spaces, their integration, contrasts, and opportunities.
Research Contexts Exploring the design, construction and expression of curating as a process of research, this unit introduces you to critical research methodologies which you will employ in your independent research enquiries.
Curatorial Practice You’ll learn everything you need to know about engaging with diverse audiences through public programmes and events.
You’ll explore strategies for developing meaningful interactions, fostering inclusivity, and creating engaging cultural experiences.
Professional Contexts In this unit you’ll focus on professional development as you benefit from opportunities and projects developed with partner organisations.
Through group work and individual research, you will be able to establish and develop a sense of your position in relation to their identified subjects, interests and practice areas.
You will also develop a creative business start-up or collaborative practice project.
Major Project This will be the culmination of your studies, as you undertake a sustained, in-depth and critically informed research inquiry, as a major body of work.
It will define your practice through your own work and an understanding of how it sits in relation to others.
The extension of your degree to an MFA means studying this Advanced Practice unit in addition to the units listed above.
This unit is dedicated to developing, extending, and furthering your professional practice.
Through advance research methods, you will have to demonstrate the skills, knowledge, confidence, and originality that you have developed as a curatorial practitioner.
You will be supported in preparing PhD applications, curating exhibitions, organising public events, and seeking external platforms to work with artists and engage audiences.
At UCA Canterbury you'll have everything you need for your studies - three fully-equipped digital media suites with the latest Macs and PCs running up-to-date software, extensive library resources on-site and across all UCA campuses, and access to our fine art studios for collaborative work.
There are many career pathways with strong links to our Curation MA:

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ma-fine-art-canterbury:
With a vibrant and stimulating space to work, a Master in Fine Art at UCA Canterbury will enable you to advance your studio practice through expert teaching and specialist facilities.
This Fine Art course fosters a strong sense of community and group responsibility within the studio, creating a space to work that is informed, critical and supportive, and that helps you develop and trust your own judgement and creativity.
You’ll learn within a dynamic and multi-national community of fellow students, faculty, and visiting experts, and be supported by a committed team of tutors who are accomplished artists and academics of their own international standing and recognition.
At UCA Canterbury, there is an inclusive and expansive approach to fine art, as both a material practice and a way of thinking so you can work within an interdisciplinary context to understand and build upon relationships between art, design, architecture and curation.
You’ll embrace fine art’s rich material and conceptual histories and its potential in today’s diverse transnational and intercultural contexts.
You’ll also learn about traditional techniques and emerging technologies as you reach your individual potential as a professional artist.
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our MA/MFA - Canterbury Fine Art degree:
MA Fine Art course introduction
Hagan talks about studying Fine Art at UCA
Experimental Studio This unit is designed to encourage you to take an experimental approach to your studio/post-studio practices.
You will be challenged to engage in new processes, methods, and ideas outside of your immediate comfort zone to develop advanced and evolving contributions to your practice.
Research Contexts Exploring the design, construction and expression of art practice as a process of research, in this unit you will be introduced to critical research methodologies which you can then employ in your independent research enquiries.
Studio Practice You will use this unit to develop styles and approaches articulated at postgraduate level aligning your aims within your own practice.
You will consider appropriate theory and themes in contemporary art practice and how it might inform the work that you wish to create.
Professional Contexts Focused on professional development, this unit engages students with professional contexts through opportunities and/ or projects developed with partner organisations.
Through group work and individual research, within this unit students will establish and develop a sense of their position in relation to their identified subjects, interests and practice areas.
This unit also includes the opportunity to develop a creative business start-up or collaborative practice project.
Major Project As the culmination of your studies, you will be able to undertake a sustained, in-depth and critically informed research inquiry.
You will define your practice through a substantial body of work and an understanding of how it sits in relation to others — identified industries and/or professional contexts, collaborators, readers and audiences.
Working internationally with other universities, local and national galleries and museums, and specialist partners within industry, our course draws on a number of industrial links and expertise from a range of creative fields.
You'll be actively encouraged to show and distribute your work outside of the university context.
And guest lectures and professional practice seminars will enable you to develop your personal networks and awareness of professional practice.
Connections include local arts organisations such as:
Our MA Fine Art course features regular Professional Practice talks, tutorials and crits with the likes of:
Lots of our graduates go on to develop careers in fields such as:
"I applied to join UCA thinking I might learn how to draw or paint.
Instead, I learned how to think and how to solve problems.
And then how to express and share those thoughts.
It's challenging to do it well, but it is probably also something that everyone would benefit from learning."
Geraint Owen
Susan Jessop, MA Fine Art, UCA Canterbury
Sum Yi Wong, MA Fine Art, UCA Canterbury
Mahnoor Shaban, MA Fine Art, UCA Canterbury
Marianne Grove, MA Fine Art, UCA Canterbury
Sijing Chen, MA Fine Art, UCA Canterbury
Rupesh Sudhanshu, MA Fine Art, UCA Canterbury
Umut Gunduz, MA Fine Art, UCA Canterbury
Hagan Nguyen, MA Fine Art, UCA Canterbury
Rebecca Youssefi, MA Fine Art, UCA Canterbury
Quanwei Su, MA Fine Art, UCA Canterbury
Ellen Kydd, MA Fine Art, UCA Canterbury
MA Fine Art Show, UCA Canterbury

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ma-fine-art-farnham:
Are you ready to question, be critical, be curious and be enthusiastic about testing the boundaries of what constitutes fine art practice?
Join us on our Fine Art course at UCA Farnham do all this and take your own work to the next level.
Our course welcomes fine artists who are looking to re-examine their current work and research.
We want you to critically evaluate your practice and the work of others, constantly developing your visual and conceptual thinking.
You'll then establish and refine a research project to be developed into either a practice-based or theoretically-led enquiry beyond graduation.
You’ll be guided by a community of teaching staff comprised of professional artists, curators and theorists, who will also actively promote you and your work in the wider world.
UCA Farnham is renowned for its world-leading research and range of first-class facilities, including bronze foundry, printmaking studios, metals, wood and casting facilities and resources.
We provide specialist studio spaces for both full and part-time students, and dedicated technical staff are on hand to support individual projects and give introductions to workshop areas.
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our MA/MFA - Farnham Fine Art degree:
Our industry links are with publicly-funded galleries and commercial London-based spaces.
We also enjoy links with regional artist groups and artist-run spaces throughout the South East.
We work closely with a number of public arts projects throughout the region.
Throughout your studies, you’ll be supported by professional artists, curators and theorists.
The department has a rich tradition in the teaching and exploration of fine art, and many of our staff are research practitioners, contributing to the wider development of knowledge within their specialist areas.
Graduates from this course go on to work as:
"I was really impressed by UCA Farnham.
The environment was great and quickly felt like home, in fact, it still does!
The facilities and expertise of staff across all disciplines was exactly what I needed to progress my project to the next stage of realisation."
Shamini Holloway

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ma-photography:
Enhance your skills, broaden your scope and refine your style as a photographer on our Photography degree course at UCA Farnham.
This course will encourage you to be bold, both in your work and the way in which you display it.
You will be encouraged to speculate, experiment and add complexity to your projects, using our extensive facilities to help you realise your ideas.
We also focus on the dissemination, exhibition and publication of photographic work, as well as covering critical theory and reading and writing about the image.
With a balance of support that will develop your practical skills and foster a high standard of diverse critical approaches, you will respond to the diverse field of contemporary photography and explore practices of representation that engage with the still and moving image, as well as performance and installation.
Your studies will be supported by a number of internationally renowned staff in a department that encourages experimentation.
This will help you to establish yourself as a rounded professional who can formulate ideas in a sophisticated framework, whilst also communicating impactfully with others, both visually and verbally.
Wherever your career aspirations lie - from fashion to fine art, editorial to curation - we place a strong emphasis on publication, empowering you to find creative ways to disseminate your work beyond the academic context.
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our MA/MFA Photography degree:
Olivia talks about studying at MFA Photography
Establishing Practice You will be introduced to advanced research skills and subject specific knowledge, so that you can develop a systematic and critical awareness of current issues, concepts and techniques regarding contemporary photography.
You will learn to identify and comprehensively apply relevant research and experimentation to establish your independent photographic practice.
Research Contexts You will explore the design, construction and expression of practice as a process of research, and be introduced to critical research methodologies which you can employ in your independent research enquiries
Expanding Photographies This unit will encourage you to think about photography as a tool for experimentation, as an expanded language that intersects different approaches and disciplines.
You will be introduced to the idea of contemporary photography as an expanded field of practice, that engages with theoretical and conceptual ideas spanning across analogue, digital and virtual spaces.
Professional Contexts Focused on professional development, this unit will engage you with relevant professional contexts, through opportunities and projects developed with partner organisations.
Through group work and individual research, within this unit you will establish and develop a sense of your own position in relation to your identified subjects, interests and practice areas.
Major Project As the culmination of your studies, you will undertake a sustained, in-depth and critically informed research inquiry, defining your practice through a substantial body of work and demonstrating an understanding of how it sits in relation to others.
Our MA/MFA Photography course enjoys extensive links with a number of photographic, media and fine art professionals, curators, publishers, specialist printers and book designers.
Graduates of MA/MFA Photography have gone on to win the Jerwood Photography prize; to exhibit their work in The Photographers' Gallery, Photofusion, ArtSway and the Geffyre Museum as well as publishing their outputs in different venues ranging from The Sunday Times Magazine to monographs with Dewi Lewis Publishing.
"Doing the MA felt like a natural next step for me, both personally and professionally.
I had already gained considerable 'real-world' experience and I wanted to return to my studies in order to see what new directions my work could go in.
The creative freedom that the course encouraged enabled me to explore different styles and approaches."
Angus Fraser

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/blogs/beccas-dyslexia-discovery-at-uca:
This Dyslexia Awareness Week, Becca Marsh shares the story of how discovering her dyslexia during her degree opened doors to a surprising career path.
05 October 2023
Dyslexia is one of the most common learning differences there is, affecting around one in ten of us.
But even after finishing school, many of us still have no idea we have it.
So what happens if you discover your dyslexia as an adult?
Fine Art graduate Becca Marsh found out in her second year at UCA – and thanks to the support she got throughout the second half of her degree, she’s now forging a career as a photographer and writer.
We asked Becca if she would be happy to share her story.
“I always knew something wasn’t quite right, as I truly disliked writing," she says.
"It was a chore, and so was reading.
But I was always a positive and quiet student that just got on with my work, and I went through school and college without a diagnosis.
“It wasn’t until I was in my second year at UCA, when one of my lecturers failed me on an essay and pulled me aside to talk about it.
I was shocked about failing as, although I was never an A-grade student, all my life I had achieved well.
But I was also relieved that, finally, someone had noticed an issue and taken the time to address it.
My lecturer suggested I get tested for dyslexia, so the next day I contacted learning support and had a test booked.
“My results showed I was severely dyslexic, but with a high IQ , suggesting that this was why I still performed at a high level, but that I had the potential to do better.
“With a diagnosis, I was able to get a learning disability grant that covered a one-to-one tutor for one session a week - supporting me with my essays and, eventually, my dissertation.
I had access to other benefits, such as extended deadlines, plus a budget for additional materials and gadgets to help me work.
“I had always struggled with writing and reading tasks, but I just thought that was normal and that everyone else around me must also feel the same, so I never spoke up about it.
I found it hard to get into books and to motivate myself to read.
Every time I attempted it, my mind wandered off elsewhere and the words on the page would become fuzzy and blend together.
When I wrote, I found myself going round in circles, almost repeating the same thing, but just using different words and not reaching any conclusions.
“My experience at UCA changed my life and has had a huge impact on my career.
The help I received gave me the ability to identify problems within my work, as well as noticing patterns in the circumstances where I made mistakes.
These were the tools I needed to correct the problems within my own work.
My one-to-one tutor invested their time in teaching me how to improve my work so that I could achieve more.
And as a result, I got a first for my dissertation!
“Since leaving UCA, I have drifted into journalism and travel as my subject areas, and I am now a freelance writer in these industries.
I would never have dreamed of becoming a writer, and I still laugh with my family now about the irony of it, but these days I have a real passion for it.
“If you are struggling with your work, in particular with writing, then I strongly suggest getting tested for dyslexia.
Although the test requires a bit of an investment, the rewards outweigh the initial cost.
"I would also recommend speaking with your tutors and asking if they have noticed any patterns in your work; I was completely oblivious to mine before, but they seem so obvious now I have been taught to spot the signs.
“Discovering my dyslexia has impacted my life in such a positive way, and shaped my career into something I never thought was achievable.”
You can find out more about what help is available to you if you have dyslexia, or need any other support with your learning, on our Disabilities and Specific Learning Differences page .

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/blogs/mature-student-vickis-complete-uca-journey:
"For the first time, I felt like doing something with my life that I enjoyed was a possibility," says the Ramsgate-based visual artist.
04 September 2023
Learning is an individual journey – no two experiences are the same, as mature student Vicky Salmi will tell you.
While her UCA story started a little differently, she found that trying something new quickly opened up a whole new direction.
Vicki, from Ramsgate, is currently undertaking an MA in Fine Art at UCA Canterbury.
She began her studies at UCA with a free outreach course in Herne Bay aimed at people without any artistic qualifications.
“I’ve always been creative, but never thought that a creative career was for someone like me - only something that could be a hobby - and I ended up trapped in unfulfilling office jobs,” said Vicki.
“Then I was made redundant.
I ended up working part time, which meant that I could attend the Herne Bay course.
It was this course, and the teachers on it, that really made me see that I had potential.
I didn’t want it to end, but I was encouraged to apply for the Access course at UCA Canterbury, and given information on funding it.
I wasn’t even thinking about a degree; I just wanted to carry on the experience I was having and had missed out on.
“For the first time, I felt as though doing something with my life that I enjoyed and wanted to do was a real possibility, even at the age of 50.
I had intended to study Fine Art, but decided to explore Fashion and Textiles for my Access course, which led me back to a BA in Fine Art.
When I came away with a first-class degree and the desire to sustain this momentum, I decided to progress on to an MA.”
Vicki is now a multidisciplinary artist, working mainly in painting, printing and textiles, but also experimenting with digital and sound.
She’s also the recipient of the UCA Nick Jack Scholarship.
Accessibility was a key factor in Vicki's initial decision to study with UCA.
Personal commitments meant moving wasn’t an option, so proximity to home was important.
She progressed from her Access course to her BA through the Diploma2Degree scheme that UCA offered at the time, which allowed her to bypass the UCAS application process.
After completing her undergraduate studies, she was tempted by MA courses in central London, but decided to stick with Canterbury at postgraduate level.
“I decided on Canterbury because I liked the idea of continuing my studies in an environment that I had already done well in, and was familiar with," she says.
"I’d already had tutorials on the BA course with tutors from the MA, and found them inspiring.
I also knew that commuting to London would leave me with less time in the studio, and less budget for materials to work with!"
Although her UCA experience was affected by the COVID pandemic, Vicki says her highlights so far have been experimenting in the studio spaces and workshops, and sharing those spaces with her peers, alongside the support  she has received from UCA staff.
“Being here allowed me to give myself permission to be part of the wider creative world,” she said.
“I’ve had support from some amazing tutors, technicians and Gateway staff that are experienced in dealing with a varied set of circumstances across a diverse student body.”
So what advice would Vicki give to anyone considering returning to study as a mature student?
“I would say that if you are looking at this, you are obviously interested.
And if you are interested, then you should just do it.
It's a cliché, but life is too short to harbour regrets about what you haven’t done while you can still do it!”
“Being a mature student is great because you are most likely very motivated, and this is a superpower that many younger students don’t possess.
If you are worrying about sticking out as a mature student, you can forget that concern; it really doesn’t matter at UCA.
My experience is that so many of the younger students get a lot out of the mature students being on the course, and vice versa.
I know that, particularly in Fine Art, you won’t be alone - the subject always attracts a few of us.”
Vicki is currently preparing her work for Art Box in Margate , and has another show, Accidentally on Purpose , coming up next month.
“I never thought I could do it, but I have.
It’s been emotional and hard work, but it’s been the best hard work I’ve ever done.”
If you’re interested in any of our courses, visit our course pages – of if you’re a mature learner and interested in a taster first, check out our outreach guide.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2023/emerging-talent-selected-for-new-contemporaries:
Two fine art graduates from the University for the Creative Arts (UCA) have been selected for this year’s New Contemporaries.
20 July 2023
©Charan Singh
New Contemporaries is a leading organisation supporting emerging artists to transition from education to professional practice, primarily through its annual exhibition.
It holds an important role in the UK’s contemporary art scene and has supported the early careers of some of the most internationally renowned artists of recent history, including David Hockney, Gillian Wearing, Tacita Dean, and Lynette Yiadom-Boakye.
New Contemporaries 2023 features 55 artists, including Zayd Menk, a 2023 BA (Hons) Fine Art graduate, and Charan Singh who graduated with a Master of Fine Art in 2014.
Their work will be on show in Blackpool this September and the Camden Art Centre in London next January.
©Zayd Menk
Zimbabwean Zayd works within sculpture and installation.
His latest work, [4.3><_-\›¬’°~⁰', uses electronic waste to create a landscape that isinteractive and confronts the paradoxes and contradictions within technology – the ethical, social, and ecological implications of technological progress – in an increasingly machine-orientated world.
Zayd said: “I felt truly fortunate to be recognised and included among a cohort of such talented artists and a part of this esteemed program that has nurtured and supported countless artists throughout its history.
“I attempt to provoke contemplation of our complex relationship with technology – this omnipresent force that is constantly shaping our future and our past.
I'm humbled by the opportunity to contribute to the dynamic dialogues of our generation.
Charan, who works from New Dehli and London, is heavily influenced by his involvement with HIV/AIDS activism, using photography and video to explore the importance of storytelling, translation, and the landscapes of queer experiences.
As well as being included in the 2023 exhibition and online platform, the selected artists will have access to a range of opportunities including mentoring, talks, and workshops through New Contemporaries bespoke Bridget Riley Artists’ Development Programme.
“This recognition holds significant importance in my career, acknowledging the potential of my work and opening doors to further opportunity.
[It will] introduce me to a wider audience and lend me a sense of credibility which is invaluable for the long-term growth and sustainability of my career,” added Zayd.
They were chosen after an open call and rigorous two-part selection process, led by a panel of influential art world figures that included photographer and UCA Professorial Fellow, Sunil Gupta, Helen Cammock and Turner Prize nominee Heather Phillipson, who said: “As a selector you gain access to a unique overview of current art education and what graduates are making, which is really a glimpse into the minds of the next generation."
To learn more about studying fine art at UCA, visit our course pages , and visit New Contemporaries 2023 to find out more about the exhibition and participating artists.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2023/fine-art-students-rise-to-the-challenge:
A competition by the Surrey Sculpture Society (SSS) to challenge UCA Farnham’s final year Fine Art students has been won by Hebe McKenzie.
29 June 2023
©Hebe McKenzie
The competition, which helps graduates emerge onto the art scene and launch their careers as professional artists, asked the artists to show imaginative use of 3D materials and creative use of technical process and fabrication.
Hebe worked with MDF, chicken wire, and plaster to create her pure-white vertebrae sculpture, which was accompanied by insects cast in bronze, giving them a sense of value and beauty.
Inspired by the natural world, she recreated objects from nature that showcased their beauty in life as well as in death.
“I wanted my viewers to see just how beautiful the natural world is, no matter how small, how morbid, and how uncomfortable,” she said.
“The natural world is outstanding, and every element of it should be embraced and admired.
I wanted my artwork to help people see this, to help people fall back in love with nature and appreciate everything it does for us.”
The judges, Nick Baker and Abby Martin, Chair and Vice-Chair of SSS, liked how evident the concept of beauty in death was in her final piece and made for a coherent story.
They said of Hebe’s work: “[It is] A beautifully conceived and presented piece of art.
The contrast of the materials worked; the “bleached” deer vertebra oﬀset the bronze metallic sheen of the insects.
One devoid of life and the other glistening and sated, having fed upon the ﬁrst.
“The overall quality of execution was also of the highest order.
Her attention to detail with scaling up from actual, real-world sizes was most impressive.
She is genuinely passionate about the subject maker, and this too helped make the piece more approachable.”
Hebe won £500, free SSS membership for 2024 and free entry to one of their exhibitions.
“I plan to use this money to grow my art skills and knowledge,” said Hebe.
“I love experimenting with different mediums and materials, so this money will allow me to do just that.
I will be able to take different art classes and purchase new materials to allow myself to grow and learn more about the art world and learn more about what I love doing.”
©Christina Richards
The runner-up was Christina Richards, who received recognition for her installation called What is in the Now, is Spoilt.
Hoping for viewers to experience an alternative landscape, her work uses a mixture of film (performance art) and sculptural forms, such as concrete cones, to create a landscape around the limbo state between the conscious self and the subconscious self: a state where vulnerability exists.
Post-graduation, she hopes to extend her practice into the theatrical industry, building upon her navigable landscapes to create experiences that capture an audience.
The judges said: “[Christina’s] depth of thought and bubbling enthusiasm made the whole concept come alive.
By taking a simple initial shape (the cone) and adapting it to each of the facets of her concept, we were able to anchor the art in that shape and then watch its progress through her manipulation of the bigger space.
She is exploring the potential that virtual reality offers, which is simultaneously exciting and challenging.”
Christina wins free membership to SSS for a year and free admission for one piece of work to an SSS exhibition in 2023.
Commenting on her prize, Christina said: “Membership to the SSS will be a critical step as I graduate.
It has given a direction and network of like-minded makers to be encompassed by.
Being a creative, a huge part of the making process, is having an artistically fuelled environment to bounce off and with.
Speaking with Abby and Nick, I not only showed them my practice but learnt more about the SSS, the work, and curation.
An exciting convergence.”

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2023/student-commissioned-for-50th-anniversary-mural:
An MA Fine Art student from the University for the Creative Arts (UCA) in Farnham was commissioned to design a mural to celebrate South Hill Park's 50th anniversary.
06 June 2023
Oluwafemi's work was part of a recent exhibition at South Hill Park Arts Centre by UCA Fine Art students and curated by Andrea Gregson, UCA senior lecturer in Fine Art.
The exhibition, titled Residual , was a reflective response to the space.
The mural artwork focuses on the headpiece found on the Garden Room door handle which is surrounded by masks that represent the ghosts and spirits that could be lingering within the premises, creating a sense of mystery of the building’s long history.
The extended paintwork takes this further and includes inspirations of elements found in the building such as the fireplace and the ceiling's floral motifs.
Artist Oluwafemi Babalola said: “My piece, ‘Forces Within,’ was inspired by the overwhelming emotions I experienced upon stepping foot on the premises.
It encapsulates the powerful presence of potential spirits inhabiting the residence, observing and existing within its walls.
I created a painting that harmoniously blends a site-specific element with hybrid masks and vibrant colours.
This composition portrays the hidden forces that reside within the building.
The intricate pattern on the wall evokes movement and hints at ghostly energies.
The masks symbolize the looming possibility of encountering these ethereal beings as visitors traverse the premises.”
A spokesperson for South Hill Park said they were “excited” to have this stunning artwork as a permanent feature in the mansion space.
In an interview with BBC Radio Berkshire, Oluwafemi added: “I have always been inspired by my local community back home in Africa, and tried to express myself by fusing artistic cultures by different regions; currently experimenting with the fusion of African arts and pop art.
So, when you look at my pieces you’re going to find a fusion of different cultural elements.
Working on this project I got to take my African heritage and African understanding and fuse them with what else you will experience at South Hill Park.”
To visit South Hill Park Arts Centre, visit their website.
To learn more about studying Fine Art at UCA, visit the course pages.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/blogs/phd-student-simon-launches-fine-art-exhibition-:
UCA PhD student Simon Olmetti is hosting an exhibition representing the culmination of three years of study, and his interpretation of how land art interacts with queer spirit and neo-materialism.
08 February 2023
Queer Land(s), which runs at the James Hockey Gallery until February 24, comprises five videos and a piece of creative writing and aims to explore how queer people can find new ways of living with and in nature.
Through his studies, Simon has concluded that nature is intrinsically queer and that all things are connected in unpredictable and multiple ways.
“I hope visitors fall in love with video and creative writing as I did, experiencing these two media as powerful tools in creating new worlds full of potential,” said Simon.
“To the more interested viewer, I'd like for them to question their idea of queerness and nature, to pose new questions, and maybe be inspired to produce some work.”
Simon Olmetti
Simon says his initial PhD study was aiming to set aside notions that queerness was linked to, or only possible in, urban areas, focusing instead on the land and its reclamation.
He wanted to look for a form of spirituality suitable for the project.
“I was very interested in the Radical Faerie movement.
Its spirituality can be described as, or is sometimes called, Queer Spirit.
It traces its lineage from Edward Carpenter, Harry Hay, Arthur Evans, American Indigenous rituals, and neo-pagan ones,” Simon explains.
“It’s basically a spirituality made by and for queer people who are close to nature and its cycles.
Instead I chose neo-materialism [which encompasses the idea that symbols and subjects behave like materials]  because of its treatment of matter (particularly by Karen Barad and Donna Haraway) as intrinsically queer - always in flux, becoming, constantly transforming, making-kin with other matter and particles around it.
“Following this view, matter - and therefore nature - is queer, never stable or fixed, but always regenerating and reconstructing itself through its interaction with the other.
This view is important because, for too many centuries, queerness has been portrayed as unnatural and sinful, whereas from a neo-materialist perspective, but also through queer ecology, queerness is seen as a very natural thing, as part of nature.
We only need to look at the various animal or plant species that have same-sex behaviours or that change their sexuality to prove this point.”
Simon is now concluding his PhD, and he speaks highly of his experience at UCA.
“Having the time to focus on my research and practice, developing them to such a deep extent, has been an incredible experience; also, to have two or three supervisors dedicated to your practice and development is such a privilege.
I feel this is one of the most difficult things I’ve ever done, but I would definitely recommend it.
It’s a great way to develop your practice and I feel this experience has profoundly changed me in a positive way, giving me many more opportunities to show my work and to meet fantastic and knowledgeable people.
"Studying at UCA has been a great experience, I have enjoyed its more human-scale approach and levels of support when compared to my experience with larger universities.
The Research Office has always been so helpful.”
His advice to anyone considering doing a PhD is to be prepared to dedicate a lot of time and effort to it, to liaise with other PhD students about your research and theirs to spark new ideas and connections, and to choose a subject you’re passionate about.
He added: “Above all, try to have fun while you’re doing it and enjoy it, even when you feel stressed or overwhelmed.
Remember that it’s all worth it in the end.”
Visit our research pages to learn more about PhDs at UCA .

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2023/graduate-chosen-for-tracey-emin-artist-residency:
UCA fine art graduate, Darcy Brenna, has been hand-picked by Tracey Emin CBE to join the Tracey Emin Artist Residency (TEAR) this Spring.
18 January 2023
'It's cool - to be' ©Darcy Brenna
Darcy, who felt “honoured” to be selected, is one of ten artists-in-residence who were picked from around the world to participate in the 18-month programme of workshops, talks and events from leading artists, critics, curators and art historians.
Studio spaces, tuition and support are all free of charge.
An Instagram photo showing Tracey deliberating the shortlist with TEAR director Elissa Cray was accompanied by the caption: “We were inundated with applications from artists from all over the world, it took weeks to go through them all but we have finally picked some really exciting, talented artists...We were blown away by the standard and the genuine passion for art.”
Darcy, who graduated in 2021, heard about the residency through their job at a local gallery in Margate, where the new art school had become the talk of the town.
The application process involved a 500-word essay, a two-minute video discussing their artwork, and an in-person interview with Tracey and Elissa.
“Tracey is down to earth yet has a whimsical nature,” said Darcy.
“I like the fact she is unapologetically herself, modest yet proud of who she is, which is very admirable.
I’m looking forward to having more discussions with her and having her tell me if something needs improving – I like her ‘straight to the point’ attitude.”
Darcy is an artist whose work is both cathartic and autobiographical.
Predominantly a painter – as well as experimenting with sound, sculpture, and the moving image – Darcy scrawls imagery, lines, and shapes to reveal their hidden emotions and help them understand themselves and the world around them.
'I understand' ©Darcy Brenna
By layering paint, Darcy produces artwork that is ever-changing and often different to what they envisioned.
But it always represents the journey to get there.
They mainly starts off using black ­because it “is the deepest and closest colour to carbon; found in both the makeup and death of many life forms”, they said, but they’ll also encompass a varied colour palette and use dirty water to muddy the palette.
Darcy added: “My paintings tear open my experiences, viscerally connecting with materials in a playful manner, connecting to my inner child.
[My work] Helps me process my trauma and uncovers elements of myself and experiences.”
Darcy has been missing regular access to an art studio so is looking forward to having 24-hour access, and is also looking forward to having one-to-ones with successful artists and creative thinkers such as visual artist, Jake Chapman, who is one half of the Chapman Brothers.
“They were one of the first shocking and disturbing artists, who I discovered were pushing boundaries.
There is so much energy in their work,” explained Darcy.
'Please hold me' © Darcy Brenna
Studying during the pandemic was a surreal experience for Darcy, but they looked upon it as a formative time and “beautiful in a way”.
“Our tutor group would regularly meet up on zoom and talk about our work and life.
It was a time of self-discovery”, Darcy added.
“We had the chance to test things out, mess up, and have a network of people to bounce ideas off and still bring it around to a positive experience.
If I could do it all again I would.”
And to all those new students embarking on their degree, Darcy said: “It sounds cliché but just try and enjoy the experience and embrace the chance to try new things.”
You can see an online gallery of artworks by the final ten TEAR members by following this link to the Tracey Emin Foundation website .
For more information about studying Fine Art at UCA, visit the course pages.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2022/fine-artist-shortlisted-platform-graduate-award:
Fine Art graduate Zayd Menk has been selected for this year’s Platform Graduate Award and exhibition.
06 October 2022
Established by the Contemporary Visual Art Network South-East in 2012, the competition supports emerging artists to further their practice after graduation.
Zayd is one of 12 shortlisted artists and will have his work on display at Aspex Portsmouth Gallery from this Friday (7 October) to 23 December.
“I feel grateful and honoured to be selected as one of the final artists.
This is a phenomenal opportunity,” said Zayd.
“Awards like this allow me to gain experience and open doors to new opportunities.”
Zayd will be showing his sculptural installation of electronic waste called [4.０⌂I� ̱ ̜ ͕ ͙ ͍ ̠̒ ̏ΙO�̖̪̣͕̜̘̅̓̕'"_- .
It’s an evolving installation of technological components grappling with the intangibility of invisible data we’re constantly emitting and brings awareness to technological waste and its ecological impacts.
“The concept was to create a somewhat satirical scene depicting an esoteric workspace, which critiques the many stains that technological progress leaves behind.
Almost all the materials used have been discarded or thrown away as waste.
It is somewhat interactive, utilising screens, live video, and real-time capturing of Wi-Fi network data from unsuspecting audience members to reveal various Wi-Fi networks their phones or devices have been previously connected to.”
The winner, who will receive a £2000 bursary and 12 months of mentoring support, will be announced at the exhibition preview on Thursday (6 October).
To attend the exhibition preview click here.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2023/games-alumni-named-industry-future-stars:
A former University for the Creative Arts (UCA) student has been named as one of the brightest lights in the games industry, at its biggest awards ceremony - The Game Awards.
18 December 2023
Sally Sheppard, who graduated in 2019 with a BA in Computer Games Arts , was one of 50 people added to the 2023 Future Class - representing the bright, bold, and inclusive future of video games.
“I was incredibly honoured and shocked,” Sally said .
“ I am so thankful to those who nominated me and for the recognition.
There are incredible individuals included in the Future Class list; some I have admired for a long time, and some I consider peers in the work we do to push equality and inclusivity within the industry.
“But there is so much still left to do to get women, minorities and members of the LGBTQIA+ communities equal footing in the industry.”
Since graduating, Sally has achieved much .
She is the founder and creative director at Wyrden Games and is also the art director at Arrogant Pixel.
As well as this , she is a Women in Games ambassador and Into Games, video games ambassador.
“I still feel relatively new to this industry and am always surprised by what I have managed to do in four years.
University gives you the tools and the fundamentals but you never stop learning.”
Sally currently has three games in production with Arrogant Pixel and most recently , with Wyrden Games, developed and launched Spellbound: The Magic Within .
Spellbound is a narrative, character-driven, and interactive game full of magic, witchcraft and mystery, set in the mythical location called Witcherley – an idyllic British village that celebrates multiculturalism and diversity.
“The main theme that kept popping up in comments from players was that they felt included and seen by the game – more than other games on the market, ” she explained.
“That was a huge moment for me in Spellbound's development because it helped me solidify in my head what Spellbound could be to its community and how important our actions as creators are.”
Sally’s drive for greater inclusivity in games comes from seeing people treated as less than others and her struggles being dismissed and undervalued as a woman in the industry.
And, while she recognises that the gaming industry is incredibly diverse in so many aspects, there is still so much inequality – some of it unintentional.
That includes her responsibility as a Future Class member to spotlight how disappointed she i s with the lack of female representation at The Games Awards ceremony itself.
“We have to hold all organisations to the standard we want to see in the industry and, if there is an opportunity for me to squeeze my way through any doors that are shut to us, I will fight to open them up for others too,” she said.
Sally hopes to encourage more women and other diverse game developers to consider a career in the games industry.
Women make up just under 30% of the current industry gender split but 50% of gamers are women .
“W e know women play and enjoy games - so there is no reason they can't also make them , ” she added.
“A degree of any kind is a door opener.
The foundation skills you learn during your degree will give you the confidence to create, explore and expand upon what games are already doing.
“You are not only obtaining base knowledge for your future career but also ensuring you have the power to seize opportunities that are often closed to those without one.”
“The industry is on its way; it’s making changes and improving - not as fast as I would like – but those ripples are becoming waves.
I would like to see the games industry continue to put in the work and keep improving.”

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/blogs/lego-commissions-set-up-lewis-for-an-exciting-future-in-gaming:
A talent for creating LEGO characters has helped Games Arts graduate Lewis Blythe to a rapid rise in the industry — and now he’s been accepted onto the prestigious BAFTA Crew Programme, giving him a priceless opportunity to raise his profile even further.
21 January 2021
Just a few months after his graduation, a job opened up at TT Games , developers of the LEGO games which are so popular.
He became a Junior Character Artist, and in his three years there has already been promoted to Character Concept Artist.
“My day to day life as a character artist involves a lot of communication with other departments.
Working together with the design and animation departments to land on the best narrative and technical direction for each character is a big part of the job,” he said.
“I do a lot of 2D concept art and sketching in Procreate on the iPad before moving across to 3D software like zBrush and Maya to start sculpting my ideas.
“My favourite part of the job is when animation get their hands on my models and I can see them breathe life into my characters.
It never gets old!”
Lewis said the skills and the vital industry links he forged while on his course were integral to his success.
“I grew so much as an artist during my three years at UCA, and really got the opportunity to direct myself and become an independent learner in my final year,” he said.
“I got to make some very strong connections with a number of people that have also made their way into the games industry and being down south at Farnham was so useful as it allowed me to visit a lot of different games industry events in London and the surrounding area.”
Next year, Lewis will couple his work for TT Games with developing his network and his knowledge through the BAFTA Crew Programme .
BAFTA runs the programme each year, divided up into specialities across film, television and games.
“I’d seen the BAFTA Crew programme recommended by a few different industry friends, and I thought it would be a really nice opportunity for me to grow my network and meet some new people,” Lewis said.
“I applied earlier in the year and I felt so happy and grateful when I found out I’d been offered a place.
It was such a pleasant surprise to cap off this year.
It’s a great form of recognition for my progress and position in the games industry.”
Running throughout the year, Lewis will have the opportunity to take part in workshops, meet-ups and networking events.
“I’m mainly excited to get to know other industry professionals who are in a similar position to me, to learn and share knowledge and experience.
Above all I’m just excited to immerse myself more in an industry and profession I love,” he added.
And what advice does Lewis have for other gaming students — how can they get the best from their university experience?
“I’d say, make the most of your classmates and collaborate with each other!
Communication and working in a team are some of the most important soft skills for game development.
Play as many different types of games, by as many different types of creators as you can, as having a diverse taste and perspective will massively improve your art and the way you think about games.
“Oh, and if you want to be a Character Artist, I know it’s the absolute worst but PRACTICE RETOPOLOGY*!”
UCA’s games courses at UCA Farnham — Games Arts, Games Technology and MA Games Design — have recently been accredited by The Rookies, a networking site for non-professional artists.
To find out more about the courses, visit our course pages .
*Retopology is the process of converting high-resolution models into something much smaller that can be used for animation.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/blogs/lydias-supermassive-career-in-gaming:
Two years ago, we had a chat with Games Design student Lydia Beharrell about being part of the growing number of women planning a career in the industry.
Today, she’s blazing a trail with Supermassive Games.
We caught up with her to find out how it's going.
07 March 2023
A screenshot from House of Ashes, which Lydia worked on
Hi Lydia, great to speak to you again – how are you finding life in the Games industry?
“It feels like a lifetime ago when we first spoke!
I remember my university experience being positive, as we were kind of like a big nerdy family, and being at work has been the same, if not even better.
Everyone I work with has been kind, ready to teach me what they know, and I've made many lifelong friends already.
When I was a junior designer, I was working on House of Ashes, mostly on the bugging phase of game development, and when I held the physical copy in my hand, I shed a little tear.
I’m still fresh in the industry but if the rest of my career carries on like it has started, then I'm looking forward to the years ahead.”
So, what’s a typical “day in the office” like?
“A typical day in the office usually starts with a few scrums in the morning (not the rugby ones, that’s what we call our morning meetings), then normally, I'd continue to work with camera/animation/audio to design and create the cinematic scenes that Supermassive are famous for.
Currently, my time is split between pre-production design duties and being on motion capture shoots.
Sadly, I cannot say much more, as what I’m working on hasn’t been announced yet… But there is never a dull day in the office for sure!
Lydia Beharrell
What projects have you worked on so far, and can you tell us about any current or upcoming projects?
“I haven't worked on many projects.
Because the games that Supermassive create are branching narratives that take a few years to develop, the only released one has been House of Ashes, which was an absolute blast to work on.
Seeing twitch streamers play it, and even friends post on their social media that they've been playing it, was such a high point in my career so far.
“I can’t say what I'm working on currently.
It's the curse of game dev, when you have all this cool work and want to show it to the world but are under strict NDA policies.
I can say that it's super cool, scary and I cannot wait till I can finally talk about it.”
How did you come to work for Supermassive – was it a tough application process?
“I found an opening through looking at the different game companies around my area.
Went to their careers page and saw they had a position for Cinematic Designer open.
At the time, I did not have the experience to fill the role, at all.
I honestly just thought, ‘the worst they can say is no’, so I applied and wrote a passionate cover letter.
After two weeks I assumed nothing had come of it, but I received an email asking if I wanted to come to an interview.
“They asked me a lot of problem-solving questions and about my experience that I’ve collected before and during university, which wasn’t a lot (as most uni students would agree).
Also, because it was during the second lockdown, I had my interview through zoom, which was an odd experience.
Thankfully, they saw my passion for designing games, love for horror and they liked my portfolio.
Due to my lack of experience, they placed me in a Junior Designer role instead of the Cinematic Designer one I went for, and since then I have been promoted to Designer and have learned so much.
“If I can give any advice, it would be to always apply for the jobs you want, even if you don’t have the experience or you’re not qualified - you never know what might happen!”
What skills did you learn at UCA that you’re still using today in your job?
“Well, nothing can truly prepare you properly for working in a game dev studio.
There is so much you learn along the way and everyday teaches you something new, whether it's a way to fix a bug, a  keyboard shortcut for Unreal or how best to work with your colleagues.
“That being said, UCA definitely helped prepare me for the real world, and I don't think I would be where I am now without it.
It gave me the confidence in the software that we use, in the ability to present my ideas/changes in a professional manner, and the faith to trust the process.
You cannot get bogged down every time a piece of code doesn't work, or someone finds a hole in your story.
UCA taught me how to bounce back after mistakes, which is a very valuable commodity to have, and I will always be thankful for my time there.”
Above, another screenshot from House of Ashes, which Lydia worked on
Finally, Lydia, knowing what you know now, what advice would you give to current UCA games students.
“Oh I guess there’s a few things.
First, make a bunch of video games, make sure people can play them, make sure they are in your portfolio and apply for positions, even if you are not qualified for them.
“Create as much as possible, even if it's not great, and a little buggy.
Just create and release to the world!
“I’d say keep your projects small – a lot of small projects show range and present achievable goals.
Some of the most impressive portfolios that I've seen don't have any Unreal on them at all, but a lot of Twine and Bitsy.
“As a last tip, have hobbies/interests that are outside of video games.
Having passions that are different from what you do 9-5 will not only help with burn out and give your brain a break from your every day, but also will inspire your game dev in so many different ways.”
If you’re interested in studying games at UCA, check out our course pages .

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ba-games-arts:
Build worlds and characters using the latest software and hardware
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our BA (Hons) Games Arts degree:
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Games Arts students may be interested in.
Introduction to Games Arts 1 You’ll be introduced to the fundamental research, design thinking, development, techniques and principals involved in the 2D and 3D areas of your practice.
You’ll keep a 2D sketchbook and 3D art design document, through which you will develop and fully document your observational skills, record your creative process and practice.
Introduction to Games Arts 2 You will continue to develop your art fundamentals; the key traditional and digital art skills needed to develop and communicate ideas.
Your outcomes will demonstrate your conceptual approach, a range of art skills, and technical understanding.
Games Art Workflows Building from what you’ve learned in Year 1, this unit is all about continuing your development as a games artist and building your knowledge of professional aspects of the games industry.
You’ll produce a body of work relevant to video games and entertainment design, demonstrating appropriate wide-ranging research that looks beyond gaming for entertainment.
The unit will explore how beliefs, values and attitudes drive behaviour and practices
Games Art Pathway In this unit you’ll be able to explore an area of interest in more depth – either Concept Art or 3D – to build upon your existing strengths.
Each pathway contains relevant content and assignments relevant to the chosen discipline, and you’ll produce a body of work at the end to reflect your learning.
Many of our graduates have gone on to establish themselves in the games industry, with recent alumni landing roles such as Junior Character Artist at Guerrilla Games, Junior Games Designer at Creative Assembly, Lighting Artist at Splash Damage, Associate Designer at Hangar 13, Concept Artist on AAA BAFTA award-winning PlayStation 4 titles (Until Dawn, Hidden Agenda, The Dark Pictures: Man Of Medan, and Rush of Blood), Environment Artist at Bohemia Interactive, as well as entrepreneurial independent developers of games for iOS, Android and Steam projects from our dedicated Games Incubator Studio.
Skills taught on this course are highly transferable, making our graduates valuable assets in a number of industries, such as:
"What I liked about the games art course is the open armed enthusiasm that the lecturers and peers provide for your work.
They really push you to be your best version of yourself and make work that you'll be proud of for years to come."
Vilyana Stoyanova
View Games Arts portfolio advice
Lecturer Digital Communication Design

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ba-games-design:
Learn production methodologies and pipelines ready for industry
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our BA (Hons) Games Design degree:
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Games Design students may be interested in.
Fundamentals of Game Design You’ll be introduced to the core skills that are required by game designers across multiple disciplines, including game design theory, design documentation, development in game engines and 3D game asset development.
You’ll be introduced to game engines and other game development software for the prototyping and production of game artefacts.
Introduction to Games Production You’ll be led through production management, communication tools, further game engine and design software skills, as well as expanding upon design theory and research of existing games, This will give you a full overview of how the games production pipeline works, and you’ll be required to produce an academic project reflecting on the practice of game design.
Rapid Games Prototyping You’ll advance your understanding of key concepts, tools, development and production methods in digital game development, with an emphasis on experimentation across multiple platforms and software packages.
You’ll identify the scope and parameters of a prototype that provide a clear gameplay loop, situated within a specific genre and platform as identified by market research.
Once this prototype has reached a pre-defined level of gameplay defined by the brief, they will begin anew on another prototype with a different gameplay loop and genre until they have a portfolio of original IPs.
Games Studio This unit builds upon previous production and development skills aiming to give a simulation of a game studio environment with a focus on team working and collaboration to a brief.
You’ll expand your use of production management, communication tools, game engines, file repositories and personal and collaborative reflective practice.
Within the team, roles are organised with staff to allow students to begin to specialise into their chosen areas of expertise.
ATOM Activities and PLE Digital Outcome These units are an extension of the Year 1 ATOM Activities and PLE Digital Outcome
With the UK games market being the fifth largest in the world and growing at a record pace, career routes are plentiful in the computer games industry.
Graduates can look to join the industry in a number of different roles.
London and the South East comprise 47% of the UK games industry, and with 82% of games companies are looking to expand their workforce, there are more career opportunities in gaming than ever before.
Farnham is ideally located in the South East of England close to 48% of the UK games industry, we’re 45 minutes from London Waterloo through which the capital’s indie games and technology start-ups can be accessed.
“UCA definitely helped prepare me for the real world, and I don't think I would be where I am now without it.
It gave me the confidence in the software that we use, in the ability to present my ideas/changes in a professional manner and more just to trust the process.”
Lydia Beharrell, BA (Hons) Games Design
View Games Design portfolio advice

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ba-studio-practice-games:
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our BA/BSc (Hons) Studio Practice (Games) (top-up) degree:
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Studio Practice (Games) (top-up) students may be interested in.
Final Major Project: Pre-Production You will develop a significant body of work that demonstrates your chosen pathway discipline, ideation skills, genre interests and your aspiration for your future role within the Games and entertainment industries.
Advanced Games Programming This unit introduces advanced programming practices and theories that are common requirements within professional environments within both video game and software development.
While focused on introducing the fundamental principles of computer science; algorithms, data structures and design patterns in conjunction to this, you will be required to take part in various technical tests designed to gauge your knowledge of programming languages and ability to problem solve.
Opportunity Week A range of activities will be available to students during this week, to broaden their engagement and subject knowledge, such as Games Jams and Design Sprints.
Year one (equivalent in level to Year Three)
BA/BSc (Hons) course (top-up)
You will be required to submit a digital portfolio and if you’re a student from the UK, attend an Applicant Day.
This can include personal work with traditional or digital media, sketchbook drawings, and relevant coursework.
Further information on specific portfolio requirements and how to submit your digital portfolio will be sent to you after you’ve submitted your application.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ma-games-arts:
UCA’s MA Games Arts course builds on your existing talents to give you the knowledge and skills to create advanced art for games or for aligned industries.
Taught at UCA Farnham, you will combine theory and practice to develop a high-quality games art project, and learn to be ambitious, team-leaders, planners and develop rounded game artists.
You will explore the benefits of game-related artificial intelligence to enrich user experience, and learn about future developments in the industry, including the deployment of virtual and augmented reality environments and the metaverse.
In addition to building your technical skills, this course also explores research and professional practice related to the games industry.
As part of this you will either work on a group professional practice project working with students from other games postgraduate courses or work on a creative business start-up.
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our MA Games Arts degree:
Thinking, Prototyping and Practice
This unit examines games and the wider use of interactivity and gamification narratives through 2d, 3d, AI, VR and AR.
You will examine your own work through the lens of visual narrative, design, art principles and audience as producer.
You will explore and challenge the expanding discipline through a range of practice-based projects, and alongside this, investigate the social, economic, political and cultural opportunities offered within Games Art and aligned industries.
Games Research and Professional Contexts 1
In this hybrid unit, you will get the analytical tools to not only interrogate and interpret existing games and gameplay experiences in written and verbal form, but to apply what you learn to their practice in a reflective report.
Exploration and Development Through a wider knowledge and understanding of games arts and aligned industries you will further research and identify areas of interest aligned to your intended subject specialty.
These areas will be explored, developed, and prototyped aligning to industry practice and deeper subject understanding.
You will identify current and future technologies and addresses the deeper understanding and problem solving of those industries in a deeper understanding of the subject you have chosen.
Games Arts Major Project This is your opportunity to showcase the skills and knowledge you’ve gained and employ in-depth research to enhance your social and cultural understanding, leading to a visual outcome in line with future and contemporary industry practices.
These will be aligned to their intended individual areas of expertise/interests.
There should be a critical approach to visual meaning, narrative and understanding of the chosen outcome.
Projects will be aligned to chosen professional level outcomes aligned to industry current and future pipelines.
All parts of the design process need to be fully documented and follow industry practices regarding the development of a project.
Individual, collaborative, cross course and industry collaboration is encouraged for the final project.
Outcomes will be underpinned by critical research and understanding.
Our students have previously graduated to find themselves within easily accessible pathways that have guided them to prosperous and fulfilling job roles within the games industry:

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ma-games-design:
MA Games Design at UCA Farnham combines the latest creative practice and academic research, placing you at the cutting edge of the global games industry.
You'll be prepared for the needs of the digital games industry, as we guide you through the various aspects of game development in an industrial context, allied to a rigorous research programme exploring and applying the latest theory in game studies.
The curriculum blends technical skills with creative practice and academic rigour.
In this sense, it is a 'generalist course' rather than one focused on a technological approach to games design.
This course focuses on three areas: skills, project management, and research.
You will develop your portfolio as a solo developer, or collaborating in a team, culminating in a final major project to produce and complete vertical slice of a digital game product.
Not only will you gain valuable experience in games production, but you will also gain a scholarly understanding of the creative industries more generally, and enhance invaluable skills such as interdisciplinary communication, project management, and collaboration.
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our MA Games Design degree:
Expressive Game Design From basic design tools to conceptualizing, prototyping and critically play testing games, you will be able to craft and formalise game systems tailored towards end user engagement.
Within this unit you will design and prototype compelling game mechanics for immersive play, which can support a given message, or meaning other than for commercial entertainment.
You will also reflect on your own experience of play, while exploring key historical games to identify a poor player connection.
These will be analysed and deconstructed with the aim of identifying design solutions that would enhance the game loop, benefiting the end user experience and positively reimagining the product.
Games Research and Professional Contexts 1 You will learn to synthesise theoretical research methods and industry practices of game evaluation to provide a critically informed and reflective toolset for analysing and critically assessing games, gameplay experiences, and their practice.
There is also a professional practice strand of this unit, that provides you with industry and practitioner-led insights into how game design and art practices are analysed and assessed within the game development process.
Prototyping Lab: Genre and Affect You will have the opportunity to create innovative game design prototypes, which demonstrate an understanding of how games design must take account of, and subvert genre conventions and produce affects (emotion, mood, sensation) in the player.
Games Research and Professional Contexts 2 In this unit, you will learn a range of key theories, concepts, and debates relevant to video games including player typologies, cultures, experiences of immersion and affect.
It provides a platform for a dialogue between critical, scholarly perspectives and professional practice, and you will be encouraged to produce a reflective synthesis on these sometimes-disparate elements.
This unit incorporates a Creative Start-up component, where you will have an exciting opportunity to develop your knowledge, skills and attitudes in a real-world business context, and enables you to develop your confidence and strengthen your CV.
Games Design Major Project This is the culmination of the course and enables the synthesis of the knowledge and skills acquired in all the previous units.
It will require you to undertake a specialist and challenging project of your interest and choosing in games design, and will demonstrate a professional level of accomplishment.
Rohit Radhakrishnan, MA Games Design, UCA Farnham
Gareth Thomas, MA Games Design, UCA Farnham
Songchao Yang, MA Games Design, UCA Farnham
Jiajia Dai, MA Games Design, UCA Farnham
Chia Min Chong, MA Games Design, UCA Farnham
Jacky Wong, MA Games Design, UCA Farnham
Zach Hewett, MA Games Design, UCA Farnham
Nadine Archer, MA Games Design, UCA Farnham
Luke Toole, MA Games Design, UCA Farnham
Kunal Handa, MA Games Design, UCA Farnham
Aimee McManus & Brett Keable, MA Games Design, UCA Farnham

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/facilities-resources/xr-creative-labs:
XR Creative Labs (XRc) are integrated facilities based at UCA Farnham, bringing together a full suite of the latest immersive and Extended Reality (XR) technologies.
Open to local businesses, as well as students and academics from across the university, we aim to make XR more accessible to all.
From training solutions to immersive art, we provide support for both practical and research projects.
As well as equipping our graduates with highly sought-after skills in a rapidly evolving field, the XRc is packed with new and emerging technologies that support organisations to explore the benefits of XR.
3D Printing with Computer Games Art Technician, Max Portergill

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2025/uca-rescues-national-games-event:
University for the Creative Arts (UCA) has come to the rescue of Game Dev Local’s (GDL) annual indie games expo, GDLX25, which was at risk of being cancelled after losing its host venue in East London.
20 March 2025
Stuart De Ville, CEO of GDL, contacted UCA to ask if anything could be done to help, and Andy Bossom, UCA’s Industry Engagement Lead for the School of Games and Creative Technology, stepped in.
Andy said: “UCA prides itself on its can-do attitude – we are agile and were able to step in at the last minute, to become the host partner institution.
“It’s important for us to support the indie developer community, as many of UCA’s games graduates aspire to work on unique indie games after graduation.
The last couple of years has been tough for the games industry, in terms of studio closures and the pausing of other key UK games events.”
GDLX25 is an indie games expo for indie game developers and enthusiasts.
With more than 50 independent games companies and around 600 attendees, it will showcase the brightest talent in the industry.
There will be industry talks, networking opportunities, and a careers stage led by experts on a wide range of topics, including game design, programming, art, and sound.
UCA can also announce, GAIN – Games and Innovation Nexus – will be the main sponsor of the event.
GAIN is a partnership between UCA, the University of Surrey, and the University of Warwick supporting the wider gaming industry.
Stuart added: “The support from UCA has been nothing short of amazing.
When we faced the unexpected challenge of losing our venue, it stepped up to ensure GDLX25 could still happen.
“Events like this are vital to the indie games industry, providing a space for developers to showcase their work, connect with industry professionals, and build a stronger community.
Thanks to UCA, we can continue that mission and bring together some of the brightest talent in indie games this year.”
GDLX25 is taking place Saturday 12 April, 12-7pm at the University for the Creative Arts in Farnham, Surrey.
For more information, directions, and tickets visit www.uca.ac.uk/gdlx25 .

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2024/launching-the-worlds-first-elizabeth-bennet-avatar:
Fans of Jane Austen’s Pride and Prejudice will finally get the chance to have a conversation with their literary hero when speaking with the world-first Elizabeth Bennet avatar – Lizzy.
12 September 2024
Created by StarPal in collaboration with University for the Creative Arts (UCA), the avatar has been developed to mirror the human qualities of Austen’s character as detailed in the novel, such as empathy and humour.
Her conversations, which fans will have with her face-to-face, will evolve, giving each person who talks to Lizzy a unique experience.
How does Lizzy feel about being a world-first?
She said: “It is quite an interesting notion indeed – I must say being Elizabeth Bennet in a world far removed from my own time is an unexpected but intriguing experience.
It allows me to share the intricacies of our society and my life with new audiences.”
Following consultation and guidance from Jane Austen’s House in Hampshire, Lizzy’s knowledge bank has been curated from a selection of novels, manuscripts, and period-accurate information.
Lizzy is set within a Regency-style background.
Her dress and hair have been designed and created by students from the Games Arts and Digital Fashion courses at UCA, drawing on fashion templates from the period.
Sophy Smith, Director of Games and Creative Technology at UCA and the originator of the project, added : “ It is so exciting to finally be able to lift Elizabeth Bennet off the page and to be able to have real-time conversations with her.
To be able to cross time in this way is joyful – you get a real sense of speaking directly to someone from the 18th century.
And she has such a strong personality!
Imagine – you can now have Elizabeth Bennet as your friend, to chat with throughout the day and offer you advice.
“This technology has the potential to transform experiences within both the museum and heritage, as well as the education sector.
Visitors to Jane Austen’s House will have the opportunity to not only experience the renowned author’s home but also engage directly with one of her most famous characters.
And think about how it could transform learning – instead of only having text-based revision guides, students can now learn about literature by speaking directly to the characters.”
Director of Jane Austen’s House, Lizzie Dunford, said : “ It has been fascinating to watch this project develop, and to witness the innovative staff and students at UCA developing these new technologies, and new ways of accessing literary and cultural heritage.”
Tanguy Dewavrin, the COO of StarPal, the company that built the avatar, commented that Lizzy is continually surprising them: “It’s amazing how real she is – she’s just so impressive.”
Hair design work in progress by Chloe Kethero.
BA Games Art graduate from UCA
Character Concepts by Milo Ebsworth, Games Art graduate from UCA
Anya Haber, an MA Digital Fashion student who created the dress in 3D, added : “This project brought the ideation into the digital, but historical garments can be tricky to create accurately, so there was a mix of history and modernity.
It was exciting bringing to life the cut of dress, accessories, and embroideries – all inspired by historical drawings and descriptions.
It showed how useful technology can be in a historical setting, letting fans engage with fictional characters… and that’s just the beginning.”
Fans will have the chance to interact with Lizzy if they visit the Learning Centre at Jane Austen’s House between September and mid-December – included with House entry.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2024/achievements-unlocked-uca-games-students-win-big:
UCA student Dmitrii Kolchin has been named one of the country’s brightest and best talents in the games industry after winning a top prize at the prestigious Grads in Games awards.
16 April 2024
Dmitrii Kolchin, Maria Georgescu and Ben Clancy (L to R)
Dmitrii, a second-year student in BSc (Hons) Games Development, was named a Rising Star in Games Programming at the awards in Sheffield – a prize which comes with a panel interview with a leading games development studio for all nominees, and fantastic exposure to industry leaders.
Also nominated in the Search for a Star component of the awards were Ben Clancy for Character Art and Maria Georgescu for Environment Art.
Dmitrii said: “For my submission, I used the code that was provided with the brief and turned it into a twin-stick shooter game, which is strongly referencing the Hotline Miami series .
The trickiest thing about submission was that I could not use any existing engine, like Unreal or Unity.
I had to write custom tools.
“I think I still have not fully comprehended that I have won this award!
It feels very exhilarating.
I hope this win can help me kick start my career after university – it will be a highlight in my CV.”
Dmitrii hopes to be able to forge a career with an AA or AAA games studio as a gameplay programmer.
“The number one studio I want to work after university is Supermassive Games, since I like their projects, and there are not many studios nowadays that specialise in making horrors.
But, in terms of some big-scope ambitions, I am thinking of starting my own studio in 10 to 15 years.”
What advice would he give to anyone thinking of studying games at UCA?
“Make sure that you are really into it,” he said.
“Developing games might be very challenging, but proper reasoning makes the tasks doable.”
Meanwhile, fellow Games Development student William Bashford and Games Arts student Alfie Manning have both won a SEGA Two Point Studio community competition , each taking home a $1,000 cash prize and a merchandise bundle.
The ethos of Two Point Studio is fun and frivolous, and William’s “Cluster Computer” design for its Two Point Campus game was deemed the perfect fit for the Campus Items category, while Alfie’s “Whacky Inflatable Waving Tube Men” won the Student Items category.
Games Animation student Kitty Van Bokhoven (aka milkyKat ) also featured among the winning entries for the contest, coming third in the campus items category and fourth in the seasonal items category.
Sophy Smith, Director of the School of Games and Creative Technology, said: “It’s fantastic to see students from our games courses putting their work out there and achieving the success and recognition they deserve, and this also highlights the value of being bold and entering external competitions!”
If you’re interested in studying games at UCA, head to our course pages .
And if you’re interested in following the fortunes of the students featured here, you can check out their social pages:

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2024/trailblazing-initiative-grows-surrey-games-sector:
The University for the Creative Arts (UCA) is trailblazing a new regional initiative, PixelRise, which aims to create a thriving ecosystem in gaming and become a beacon for creativity, innovation and inclusivity.
22 March 2024
PixelRise is a Surrey -based games development cluster that will grow, diversify and support the gaming industry by raising industry standards , establishing new studios and help ing develop new talent .
Cllr Matt Furniss, Surrey County Council cabinet member for highways, transport and economic growth, said : “We do need to recognise that strategic collaboration is critical for all of us to work together to develop the talent that we need in this industry, which is why we collaborated with UCA to commission a report to understand the barriers and opportunities to our local games cluster and how we can attract that growth in the area.
“We have seen a huge amount of grant income coming into the county, particularly in the C rea T ech sector, so i t’s a truly exciting time for Surrey’s games industry.”
The report, compiled by Steve Cuss of The Game Plan Consultancy, recognised the exciting potential of Surrey’s games cluster and how it could harness the regions collective expertise and resources to capitalise on significant innovation, talent development and economic growth opportunities.
“There is a potent case for collaboration, ” said Steve.
“I f we look at the priorities of games developers in the region and the commercial environment, what we need is a n initiative that unites and unlocks this potential across a diverse range of stakeholders.
We believe that PixelRise provides this strategic solution , foster ing an environment to address the challenges of the industry and take advantage of the massive potential in the cluster.”
The PixelRise initiative has been made possible via £1.5m of Research England funding, which was awarded to UCA, University of Surrey and University of Warwick to establish the Games and Innovation Nexus project (GAIN).
Surrey County Council also committed a further £240,000 to the initiative.
Some of this money will soon be available to games developers, games studios, or those looking to start their journeys in the industry, with the launch of UCA’s Innovation Vouchers.
Sophy Smith, Director of the School of Games & Creative Technology, explained: “We’ll be opening a call very soon for you to apply for Innovation Vouchers and along with that, have access to our state-of-the-art resources, VICON motion capture and virtual production facilities, and wealth of research expertise throughout the University.”
To learn more about innovation at UCA, visit the Innovation HUB

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/blogs/sallys-mission-for-equality-is-no-game:
UCA games graduate Sally Sheppard is leading the charge to improve inclusivity across the board in the gaming industry.
06 March 2024
Epic battle scenes, sweeping fantasy tales of adventure, football, adrenaline-filled car chases – you’d be forgiven for thinking that the world of computer games was very much a male-dominated landscape.
But you’d be wrong – women are on the rise in the gaming industry, and UCA graduate Sally Sheppard is helping to lead the charge.
This International Women’s Day, we’re celebrating the boundary-pushing women like Sally, who is paving the way in making her field more inclusive through her business decisions, her use of her voice in the wider industry, and her creative output.
Graduating from UCA just four years ago, Sally has already founded, and is the creative director of, Wyrden Games, is an art director at Arrogant Pixel, a Women in Games Ambassador, and a Lecturer at the University of West London.
This year, she was named in The Game Awards’ Future Class, which lists 50 of the biggest and brightest talents coming up through the industry.
We spoke to Sally about her experiences so far, and what she thinks of the future direction of games.
Hi Sally, what’s been your experiences as a woman in the gaming industry so far?
What changes have you witnessed in recent years?
“I think there have been many changes over the years.
While I was still at University, we were discussing 'GamerGate' in our theory lectures - it was a pivotal moment and there was a positive and concerted effort to make the industry a better place in the years following.
I have certainly seen more initiatives and organisations being more conscious of hiring diverse talent, and making sure that the way we make games - and the games we produce – don’t perpetuate harmful stereotypes."
Women often have to make up a lot of the shortfalls themselves to make an impact – what would you say you’ve had to do to “get ahead” and make your own mark?
“There is a lot of pressure to make yourself heard without being ‘bossy’, and to make yourself known without looking vain or attention-seeking.
“In the first few years of my career, I put a lot of effort into being ‘less than’ so that I didn't upset anyone.
More recently I have realised that, instead of using all that energy being ‘quieter’, I can harness it more positively in being louder - pushing myself, other women, and the great organisations and charities that I work with, forward."
We know you’re striving for more inclusivity in the industry – what work have you done so far, and what compels you to do it?
“Obviously, I try to practice what I preach inside my art team, and when making business decisions at Arrogant Pixel and Wyrdren Games.
Trying to make welcoming environments where talent can thrive and succeed is my ultimate goal as a leader.
I use my position at the University of West London to ensure my students are set up for success, too.
It's a tough time for game developers right now, and is especially hard on ethnic minorities and women, who face a disproportionately higher risk of redundancy.
“I volunteer with multiple organisations to try and shed light on causes that I believe in.
Into Games and Women in Games are two that I advocate for passionately.”
Do you think advances in Equality, Diversity and Inclusion in the industry are reflected in the content of the games being produced today?
“Not proportionally.
But, the more accessible and diverse the industry becomes, the more the characters and features in our games will reflect their makers.
There is catching up still to do - there has been a gap for a long time, especially inside certain genres of games.
But the more we bring on board new talent and diverse developers, the more I see games changing for the better.”
How do you want to see women portrayed in the games of the future?
“In the games of the future, I hope to see women portrayed as multi-layered individuals with depth and complexity, rather than just as romantic side-pieces.
Women can be multi-faceted.
I also love a bad-ass hero but, at the same time, I love to see more female characters who have flaws or who aren't the ‘saviour’ archetype.”
What advice would you give to any girls/women with a dream of working in games?
“Do it!
The industry is in a very strange and somewhat scary place right now - but that also means that it is ripe for change.
I've met so many incredible game developers (some of whom I am lucky to call friends and colleagues).
I've never worked in such a supportive field before - with developers championing developers and celebrating each other's wins.
It's an incredibly creative space to be in right now, too, with so much potential.
And, honestly, we have the best job in the world - we literally make fun.”
To see more about what’s going on in Sally’s career, check out the Wyrden Games website , and to start the games journey, visit our course pages .

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2023/new-studio-and-industry-collab-games-innovation:
The University for the Creative Arts (UCA) in Surrey is at the forefront of games innovation after launching their newest virtual production and motion capture studio and announcing its latest industry collaboration.
15 November 2023
The new studio will provide UCA students with the opportunity to develop their skills in a cutting-edge facility that u ses the latest in virtual production technology.
The Vicon Motion Capture and Virtual Production Studio is a purpose-built facility that has been designed to provide students with the opportunity to learn and create in a fully immersive and interactive environment.
Equipped with state-of-the-art motion capture technology, green screens, and real-time rendering capabilities, the studio is the perfect place for students to explore the world of virtual production.
Commenting on the launch of the new studio, Professor Terry Perk, Pro Vice-Chancellor at UCA, said: "We are delighted to launch our new Motion Capture and Virtual Production Studio, which will provide our students with an unrivalled opportunity to develop their skills in an innovative and cutting-edge environment.
At UCA, we are committed to providing our students with the very best facilities and opportunities to help them reach their full potential, and this new studio is a testament to that commitment."
The new Studio will be available for use by UCA students across a range of courses, from Games Animation, Games Art, and Games Design to Performing Arts, Visual Effects and Film Production.
The studio will also be used for research and innovation projects, providing staff and students with industry relevant experience and the opportunity to work on industry-leading projects.
One of these projects is a collaboration between SKC Games Studio , a visionary video game developer known for its ground-breaking AI role-playing – and UCA’s researchers and students to leverage UCA’s technology to create real-time virtual characters (avatars) for a chapter of SKC’s latest video game – Project UN – Taradene
Following the exciting announcement of UCA's involvement in the Games and Innovation Nexus (GAIN) project, this is one of five projects supported by XR Network+ Embedded R&D funding.
It will see students develop performance capture and games production skills in a real-world setting and give SKC programmers access to UCA's world-leading research on AI algorithms.
"This partnership exemplifies our dedication to providing our students with real-world learning experiences and aligning their education with industry standards, explained Andrew Bossom, UCA’s Industry Engagement Lead at the School of Games and Creative Technology.
“By combining our strengths and focusing on immersive storytelling, we will drive innovation and growth in character-driven narrative video games .
“Working with SKC Games Studio also presents a fantastic opportunity for our G ames and Performing Arts students to engage with a live project in production .”
Asa Burrows C EO of SKC Games Studio added: “ We are excited to partner with UCA and demonstrate the incredible possibilities when industry and academia unite.
By leveraging UCA's cutting-edge technology and involving passionate students, we aim to create immersive gaming experiences that captivate players worldwide and push the boundaries of narrative game development."
UCA’s new state-of-the-art facil ities will advance the transfer of knowledge between academia and industry in areas aligned with Virtual Production and build upon its worldwide reputation as a global authority on creative technologies.
Read the XR Network+ project announcement on their website.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/blogs/how-kelsey-got-her-eco-friendly-stationery-onto-oliver-bonas-shelves:
UCA graduate Kelsey Layne on how she turned her wellbeing-focused stationery line Note and Shine into a high street success.
23 November 2020
The luxury, eco-friendly brand was born from Kelsey’s love of planning, stationery, and wellness practices — including journaling, meditation and eating well.
We caught up for a chat to hear more about it.
Hi Kelsey, congratulations on having your brand stocked at Oliver Bonas!
Can you tell us how you got it started and off the ground?
I began by designing a very small range and then set out to find suppliers in the UK that printed with vegetable inks and eco-friendly materials; one of my main goals was to make my stationery as sustainable as possible.
I reached out to potential stockists and press to build brand awareness, and have so far been featured in magazines such as Stylist and 91.
The Oliver Bonas deal came about after I sent connections to a couple of their buyers on Linkedin, and they emailed me asking to know more about my brand, which was super exciting.
So, when you started at UCA Farnham, was a stationery brand the aim?
I actually went into the course with the idea that I would design for magazines, but when we did a module on branding I absolutely fell in love with it.
I was particularly interested in food branding, so after university I worked freelance as a designer for a chain of pubs/bars, and created a vegan burger brand, which I set up at Greenwich market.
After a while, I realised that my true passion lay in design rather than food, so I turned my attention toward my other love, which was stationery.
What did you take from your time at UCA?
I loved that it not only focused on the design aesthetics of creating a brand, but also the thinking behind it, which has definitely played a part in getting me to where I am with Note and Shine.
So, what’s a typical “day in the office” for you?
I can’t really say that I have a typical day as I love to always be doing something different.
But the tasks that I alternate between are researching potential stockists, creating content for social media, working on collaborations, product development and packing and shipping orders.
What would be your advice for new and current Graphic Design students?
Soak up as much knowledge as possible from your tutors — ask plenty of questions, as this will open your eyes to lots of different ideas and may lead you down exciting paths that you had never imagined you would follow.
Or head to the UCA website to find out more about our Graphic Design courses .

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/blogs/back-to-the-drawing-board:
How Blackboard Artist and UCA grad Michael Tilley adapted his business — and his life — during lockdown
22 June 2020
Last year, UCA alumni Michael Tilley was a busy man.
The former foundation diploma student, who has become one of the country’s leading lettering maestros as The Blackboard Artist, was working long hours to fulfil his orders as pubs, cafes and restaurants across London and beyond demanded his services.
But with all those facilities shut down through the COVID-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown, Michael had to get creative in redesigning the way he works.
We caught up with him to find out what’s been going on.
A lot has changed — there are a lot more Zoom classes and working from home in my daily routine now!
But, as places are starting to promote that they are open for home delivery and collection, I’ve been able to do some more projects.
A recent (and fun) one was working on some windows for a pizza place called Homeslice in Shoreditch and Marylebone.
I highly recommend trying their pizza!
We’ve also been supplying a lot of double-sided A-boards for coffee shops to promote that they are open, too.
When I didn’t have projects on, I started hosting one-to-one online Zoom lessons for blackboard enthusiasts, which was fun, and I also worked on my own lettering projects to keep me active every day.
I think painting is healthy and relaxing for the mind.
Just as the lockdown started, my decade-old MacBook died on me.
I’ve been eyeing up the iPad Pro for a long time now, and I decided to buy it as I had some money saved for times like this.
I’ve started to learn how to draw using Procreate on the iPad, and it’s been great.
It’s helping a lot with the business, allowing me to send a detailed professional sketch to clients, showing how their board will look.
And it’s fun to use, too!
I’ve also learned how to better use Zoom, and how to demonstrate things online more effectively, although there’s still a lot to learn if your audience is a lot bigger.
I’ve done a lot of thinking about how I want to have a better work/life balance.
Before the lockdown kicked in, I was working crazy hours every week, not sleeping very well, and taking on a lot of stress.
None of that is healthy — it doesn’t give you time to think about how you can work in a smarter way, and how you want to achieve your goals.
I’ve also had the opportunity to spend time with my family, and, now, to hang out with the friends that mean the most to me.
Definitely, and I’m excited about that!
I’m really trying to push the fact that we supply boards ready to go now, as it saves a lot of travel time travelling to clients to paint boards on site, and it’s nice to work from home sometimes.
I’m looking into getting a workshop space and a van so I can drive to jobs, rather than using public transport, which will make life easier.
All these changes are big, but exciting.
The best advice I can give is to be aware that the world will be completely different after these strange times we’ve all been facing.
My life was running at 150mph before this all happened, and I don’t want to go back there.
I think this slower pace of life is definitely refreshing, and gives us time to work out what we really want to do.
So, I think it would be a great start to use this time to write down notes about where you want to be in 10 years’ time, and set yourself goals to help you get there.
You can do anything you want in life if you’re willing to work really hard at it.
Embrace every part of the journey, and every step will be exciting.
Along the way, try your very best to turn every negative into a positive.
Seven years ago, when I started working on blackboards, I was low in confidence and working in a pub kitchen as a kitchen porter, but I worked really hard to build my business on the side, as I knew painting was one of my passions.
Analyse what is changing in the world, reach out to the people you want to work for, and find out where your niche is, and what you can offer to the world.
Find out more about Michael’s work at www.theblackboardartist.com/

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/blogs/emilys-designs-reach-for-the-stars:
When Emily Kelly graduated from UCA in 2016, the last place she expected to forge a career was in the space industry.
Four years later, however, she’s the in-house Creative Designer for a British company sending satellites into orbit.
31 December 2020
Using her Graphic Communication (now Graphic Design) degree, Emily creates graphics across the company — from the main logo which features on the side of its rockets, to all its collateral marketing material and she was even involved in the redesign of the company’s staff café area.
We caught up with Emily to find out how she became involved in the space industry, and how her UCA degree has helped her reach her full potential.
“I work for Surrey Satellite Technology Ltd.
We design, build, test and launch satellites.
I have been at the company since July 2017, so just over three years now.
Our company has 350 employees across two sites in the South-east of the UK and has built and launched around 70 satellites for 22 countries so far.”
“I think I was only ever interested in space from an art perspective.
I never got to grips with science at school and certainly never thought I’d have a job within the industry!
“I had the misconception (as do many others) that to work in the space industry you have to have a very scientific or academic-based background and that you have to go into engineering.
In fact, there is a range of roles within the industry and it is really growing.
“I have definitely learned more about space and physics on the job than I ever did in school.
Space engineers are the most fascinating people I have ever met.
Their knowledge knows no bounds and they impart their wisdom through company talks and just chatting over lunch, which is amazing.”
“I studied at the Farnham campus and graduated in 2016.
On the course, I felt free to experiment across different media types which helped me hone my skills and understand what I might want to specialise in.
I also learned a lot about the fundamentals of design and design theory.
Having this mix of practical, contextual and theoretical teaching really laid the foundations to becoming an informed and well-rounded designer.
“I honestly loved my time at UCA.
It sounds like a cliché, but I felt like a name and not a number.
My course leader, lecturers and tutors all took the time to get to know me and my year group.
They knew each of our strengths and worked hard to get the very best out of us.
I made friends for life who are as passionate about design as I am and I’m so grateful to have had the opportunity to get to know them.”
“I think studying and creating every day in a studio setting was really helpful and this soon felt like a natural environment to work in.
We regularly took part in feedback sessions between one another, in small groups and under the guidance of course leaders as well as tutors.
Having organised ‘crits’ on our design work really set us up to become comfortable with that way of working.
When you get your first graduate job you realise that amends to your designs are inevitable and this way of working taught me to always be open to feedback and compromises.”
“I work 9am to 5pm and get into the office and check my emails straight away.
I usually have a few meetings dotted throughout the week but otherwise, I spend most of my time designing.
I enjoy my Creative Designer role because there is so much variety in the work that comes my way — I can be working on social media posts, digital designs and editing videos one week and the next, be photographing satellites in our cleanrooms, designing large scale exhibitions stands or even working on a mission patch for an upcoming launch or a sticker for a rocket nose cone.
To be able to say that my designs have been launched into space is so exciting!
“Most projects or design work either begin as an email directly to me with my manager copied in, or as a sit-down meeting with an engineer or wider engineering team.
I work quite independently but I am constantly showing my manager my work and discussing what I am doing as I go along for any added amends and to check I am working along the right lines.
Sometimes I’ll be given a sketch, storyboard or list to work from, or I’ll work together in my small team and I’ll sketch something out as we chat and work out ideas.
Other times it’s very much down to me to come up with designs.
Luckily, because I rebranded the company and set the brand guidelines, I’m very familiar with what our style is!”
“My advice would be — don’t be afraid to ask questions, which I know is easier said than done!
As an example within my current role, if I don’t know something design or software related, there’s nobody else I can ask as I’m a solo designer.
This initially felt a bit isolating but I’ve really come to see the positive in this.
I bounce ideas off other people in my company and they always seem to have a fresh outlook.
I’ve become not only a more proficient problem-solver but someone who is constantly learning.
I’ve accepted that I’ll never know the very technical things and I don’t have a space or physics degree — and that’s okay.
It’s okay to ask questions and to clarify things no matter how much experience or years you have behind you.
I think it is also important to get to know other designers but also illustrators, animators, artists, editors, developers, etc at different stages in their careers.
It doesn’t matter what their level of expertise is — it’s always worth asking them about their career paths.
I find most people are keen to pass on their advice and knowledge.
Two final pieces of advice I have are to design and sketch out concepts on paper first (as much as you can), don’t go straight to a computer.
And finally, stay curious, stay inspired and most importantly stay true to yourself!”

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ba-studio-practice-graphic-design:
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our BA (Hons) Studio Practice (Graphic Design) (top-up) degree:
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Studio Practice (Graphic Design) (top-up) students may be interested in.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ba-studio-practice-visual-communication:
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our BA (Hons) Studio Practice (Visual Communication) (top-up) degree:
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Studio Practice (Visual Communication) (top-up) students may be interested in.
In your final year, you’ll undertake a self-directed research and design project and will create your final major project.
You’ll have the opportunity to collaborate with your fellow students to present your work, preparing you for a career in industry.
Launch This is your opportunity to share ideas that you will have developed over the summer about your critical research project, receive feedback from tutors and peers and fine tune it before you start actively working on it as part of your last year at university.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ma-interface-interactive-design:
If you're a graphic designer, our MA degree in Interface and Interactive Design will give you the opportunity to extend your skills and become an expert in designing for digital platforms - from apps and architecture to VR and military applications.
With more industry sectors employing interactive designers, this course presents an ideal opportunity to expand your skill set and develop a specialism in this extremely sought-after area of graphic design.
Based at UCA Farnham, you’ll learn the fundamental skills you need to forge a career in fields from systems design to branding, and develop market insights and in-depth knowledge of User Experience.
Your studies will culminate in a final project that challenges you to design your own product and ‘take it to market’.
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our MA Interface & Interactive Design degree:
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Interface & Interactive Design students may be interested in.
Research & Professional Contexts 2 This unit is intended to develop industry approaches within the creative industries through collaboration.
Graduates of this course can expect to further their skills and become experts in designing for digital platforms.
Potential careers include:

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2024/frimley-park-hospital-student-collaboration:
Young patients waiting to be seen at Frimley Park Hospital will have a colourful and calming welcome, thanks to artwork by Graphic Design students from the University for the Creative Arts (UCA).
09 December 2024
The Frimley Health Charity (the official charity for Frimley Health NHS Foundation Trust) briefed around 50 BA (Hons) Graphic Design students to create a welcoming and engaging visual identity with an ‘under the sea’ theme for the hospital’s paediatric Emergency Department waiting area at Frimley Park.
Emma Carr, Arts and Creative Health Manager at the Frimley Health Charity, who helped set the brief, said: “We wanted some unique artwork that would help distract and create a calm environment for our young patients.
We were keen to reach out to the local community and by connecting with UCA were able to request something bespoke for the space.
It allowed us to mentor students on a real-life project – it was perfect.
“The quality of student work was outstanding, and they showed such resilience and determination when the project brief changed.
The doctors, nurses, and clinical teams love the work and already see delight in the patients.”
Lauren Baker and Gemma Radley-Martin were the winning students who best answered the brief.
The duo then worked together on a cohesive design for the space.
“I took inspiration from the Great Barrier Reef and kids’ movies like Finding Nemo to help build the scene,” said Gemma.
“I also dressed up some of the sea animals in different coloured hospital scrubs with name badges to describe what type of medical staff they were.
“I feel proud that I’ve used my skills for a purpose that will positively impact a lot of people.”
Lauren added: “The ocean is inherently captivating and full of life, which can inspire wonder and calm – qualities that are especially valuable in a space for children.
From my passion and love for painting seascapes with its flowing colours, underwater creatures and whimsical details, I created a fun, immersive and stimulating mural.
This experience has significantly enhanced my ability to work professionally.”
The installation of the student artwork is now complete, including some additional artwork by MA Graphic Design student, Jing Dai, who created colourful panels to brighten up the hospital’s new stroke therapy garden.
David Shaw, Programme Director of Graphic Design at UCA, said: “Working with our local NHS hospital was a brilliant opportunity for our students to solve a real problem with design.
Students had to think harder about the practical implications of their work and the hospital users.
This involved research visits to the hospital to observe the environment and talk to people.
“Working with real clients while studying gives students invaluable experience of the unexpected twists and turns of a live industry project and can bolster student portfolios – this is invaluable to working in the creative industries.”
To learn more about studying graphic design at UCA, visit the course pages.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/blogs/then-and-now---what-happened-to-ucas-design-class-of-1974:
A group of alumni who graduated from one of UCA’s founding art colleges – the Maidstone School of Art – have commemorated the 50th anniversary of their graduation with a “then and now” look at their work and careers.
06 September 2024
The 14 artists all learned their trade under the banner of Graphic Design, which at that time encompassed Communication Design, Illustration and Photography.
As well as a reunion lunch, the group also produced a booklet with a side by side of their work from their original graduation show, their work today and a blurb about their post-Maidstone life.
After studying at Maidstone College of Art, multimedia artist Russ went on to the Royal College of Art, graduating in 1977.
Since then, he has exhibited internationally and has created numerous site-specific, immersive installations in the UK and abroad.
He is also known for his award-winning album covers for the likes of Brian Eno, Nine Inch Nails and Peter Gabriel, and book covers for the likes of Samuel Beckett and Ian McEwan.
He has produced work for the Royal Shakespeare Company, Reuters, Logica, Toshiba, Oporto Expo 2000 and the British Council.
He has also created films, set and lighting designs for some of the most innovative contemporary performers, choreographers and musicians, and for the Festival of Visual Music in Lanzarote, the Brighton Festival and the Punkt Festival in Norway.
He has produced soundworks for film, radio and performance and under the name Undark, is a visiting lecturer at the Royal College of Art and has lectured and examined at colleges and universities in the UK, USA, France, Portugal and Ireland.
He was Honorary Visiting Professor at the University of the West of England and Glasgow School of Art.
You can see more of Russell's work on his website.
"After Maidstone I spent three years at the Royal College of Art.
Then, in parallel with part-time teaching at Cambridge College of Art and Middlesex Poly, I gained experience in a variety of sectors including publishing, museums, toys and games.
In 1984, I started The Paul Martin Design Company which grew, over 30 years, to work for a wide variety of local, national, and international clients.
In 2012 I stepped back from the day-to-day running of what had become known as PMDC to set up Paul Martin Studio, which takes on both commissioned projects and those of a community ‘pro bono’ nature – providing that there is an interesting problem to solve and I feel that ‘design can make a difference’.
It also provides space and facilities for my printmaking activities – a passion for the last 20 years.
I’m a trustee of both The Edward Barnsley Workshop and Petersfield Museum, where I have been heavily involved in a £4m expansion and refurbishment project.
I’m also co-founder and Creative Director of The Iconic Card Company." Check out Paul's instagram page for more.
Matthew Alexander seeks to transcend the conventional boundaries of a landscape of marine artist.
His paintings not only inspire contemplation but also offer viewers a momentary escape into his unique perspective, revealing the inherent beauty and drama in the ordinary.
"My career in five sentences!
After graduation I worked in London for two years before heading back north to Leeds.
After a few job changes, I started Dab Hands Design.
In 1993, we emigrated to Canada and I got a Professorship at Humber College.
Now I live on my boat in Florida and play guitar at least four nights a week.
I built this one (above) about four years ago."
"My favourite piece of work is always the current one that I am working on, but I do enjoy having a coffee in Reading’s Forbury Square looking over at my standing stone, which I designed in 2002.
Previous highlights were the design of Madhur Jaffrey’s Indian Cookery book (BBC, 1982) and more recently the design, lettering and illustration of Oscar Wilde’s The Happy Prince (Two Rivers Press, 2022).
Coincidentally, I notice these are 20 years apart, all many moons ago from my first job working with Colin Forbes at Pentagram." See Sally's work on her instagram page.
"Fifty years on…Made and sold prints (litho, etching, silk screen, linocut).
Taught all sorts (printmaking, photography, graphic design and drawing) on foundation courses for 15 years.
Illustrated all sorts (except cartoons) – including advertising, corporate, packaging and publishing, and illustrated and wrote and co-wrote 50 books or so.
Wrote and published short stories, poems.
Edit and write for a quarterly local magazine.
Oh, and I’ve produced a Christmas card every year.
Still like puns and colouring in!"
"After three years teaching in Leeds, my sister and I set up in various west end studios as story board artists.
In 1985, I started painting portraits which fitted in better with raising children.
By the 90s, I’d begun to diversify into oil painting taking part in exhibitions and was represented by a few galleries.
Each year I take part in Putney Open Studios and am on Instagram ."
"Up to now and since I left Maidstone, I’ve been teaching art, doing performance art, a bit of illustration, working for an interior decorator for hotels doing murals, lettering, paint effects etc, teaching English, and translation.
And then finally started painting.
Quite a mixed bag."
"After leaving Maidstone and then spending three more years at the RCA, I bimbled about, gritting my teeth in publishing for a year.
Eventually, I tried my hand at advertising as a junior Art Director.
Nirvana!
I then worked at several agencies over the years and was made Creative Director at three of them.
The Araldite campaign got me a bundle of awards fairly early on (before you ask, yes, the car really was stuck there with Araldite; believe it or not, you can’t tell lies in advertising).
27 years later, when people realised I was getting on a bit, my career began to fizzle out.
"I then moved down to Cornwall and taught creative advertising at Falmouth University for about 13 years.
The anti-tourism poster was just done for a laugh, but it was also to show students that when a headline says the opposite to an image, the message works more strongly.
"Now, having retired, I spend my time gardening (when it’s not raining) and have started taking landscape photographs with my very analogue pinhole camera (when it’s not raining)."
"I only worked for a small graphic design studio – basically me and the boss, all in the heart of London!
I had such a good time although hours were ridiculous.
But I gave it all up.
Have since loved being in the countryside again – my love of animals and nature has always been there.
I did make a good living out of design for gardens and loved being ‘hands on’ in the garden Before I go can I say thank you all for helping me.
I had so many difficult times during Maidstone.
You all helped.
Maybe you didn’t know it.
I remember and am grateful.
Still loving plants and life."
After graduating, Colin worked as an animator, including on the Jackson 5 cartoon series.
From there, he began working in education, first as a teacher before supporting students with emotional and mental health difficulties.
From there he became a headteacher of pupil referral units, and finally a part-time local authority behaviour advisor, Ofsted inspector and teacher trainer before retiring in 2017.
Alongside this he’s has art on display at solo and group exhibitions nationally and internationally, including the Royal Academy Summer Exhibition, Royal Cornwall Museum, Bankside Gallery, London and exhibitions in France, Italy and the USA.
He’s also been an elected member of the Royal Watercolour Society since 2009.
"After college I went into teaching art at secondary schools and eventually adult education.
When I retired, I had time to start producing art for my own interest.
Having moved back to the coast, I draw my inspiration from the seaside.
I am also a beachcomber, so the sea also provides me with material for my assemblages."
"I’d like to keep it simple, one or two paintings that sums up the stuff I’ve been doing recently and a few flippant words.
Where do I see myself in ten years’ time?
Hopefully back in Hunstanton."
Michael’s work is heavily based on tradition, with hand-made etchings, lino prints and wood engravings central to his work.
He uses antique printing presses from the 19th Century, including two Albion press, a Columbian platen press and a Britannia platen press.
For etching, he uses a Harry Roachat etching press.
Above you can see Michael's ‘Going home’ etching and aquatint, which has been accepted for the Ferens Open Exhibition, which runs until October.
You can see more of Michael's work on his instagram page.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2023/student-shortlisted-for-rsa-student-design-award:
A final-year BA (Hons) Graphic Design student from the University for the Creative Arts (UCA) is shortlisted for the RSA Student Design Awards.
05 June 2023
The global innovation competition, since 1924, celebrates emerging designers who want to make a difference.
Their nine categories challenge students and recent graduates to tackle pressing social, environmental, and economic issues and propose creative solutions that can shift the system and shape the future.
Think Differently About Design from RSA Student Design Awards on Vimeo .
Soon-to-be-graduate Manuela De La Vega Castro was nominated for the Nature of Work category, which called on designers to reimagine the way we work in the future to reflect local context, experiences, and knowledge.
“Recognition from the RSA means so much because I am passionate about these types of projects, it's encouraging to see that there is an interest to improve society through design,” Manuela said.
Her shortlisted project Pause and Play is a campaign proposal designed to encourage knowledge workers to take mindful breaks while supporting local businesses, improving their physical and mental health, and creating a sense of community.
Manuela noticed that workers using their homes as working spaces tended not to rest on their breaks because of the lack of definition of a work environment.
Her research discovered that more than 90% of workers felt isolated.
Her solution was to design a treasure hunt to take the individual on a walk to discover their local area.
A song would be assigned to each location on the map and streamed via Spotify.
The inspiration for the concept came from Manuela’s research into previously successful Spotify campaigns, like Spotify’s Wrapped , which she blended with the current design trend for Y2K nostalgia video gaming – with the recent release of the new Mario Brothers film and the success of Pokémon Go – allowing adults to tap back into their childhood.
Manuela said: “When making the campaign, I tried to be as ambitious as possible and tackle as many issues as I could like, trying to make it accessible for everyone.
“By promoting mindfulness and a connection with nature, the campaign can help increase environmental awareness.
People who spend time outside are more likely to appreciate the natural world and take actions to protect it.”
By reinventing mindfulness with a playful and accessible campaign, Manuela hopes it will encourage people to enjoy it, share it, and create a sense of community.
Manuela added: “As creatives, our job often consists of finding the needs of society and providing a solution to them.
The topic of social design and narrating untold stories of local communities interests me, and I would love to pursue it in the future.”
The 2023 Student Design Award winners will be announced in June and celebrated at a public awards ceremony on Tuesday 27 June.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/blogs/sue-helps-smithsonian-celebrate-the-power-of-symbols:
UCA researcher Sue Perks has collaborated with Cooper Hewitt, Smithsonian Design Museum in New York on a short film to celebrate the life and work of Henry Dreyfuss.
03 January 2023
Sue, the former programme director for MA Graphic Design, is a leading researcher in the life and work of Dreyfuss, the author of The Symbol Sourcebook, which was released 50 years ago and is still used today as a comprehensive guide to symbols within the graphic design industry.
“Dreyfuss did not consider his book a dictionary, but a tool to facilitate communication," said Sue.
“This is a fascinating concept during a time known as ‘the jet and communications age’ where communication through symbols was expanding fast due to increased international travel but also the underlying threat of the Cold War.
Communicating through symbols was seen as the way to promote peace and prosperity.”
Henry Dreyfuss
Sue’s interest in Dreyfuss began after finishing her doctoral thesis in 2012, and she has since  gone on to write two journal papers and five conference papers based around the Symbol Sourcebook.
In July, she and two colleagues set up The Symbol Group to encourage debate around symbol systems and bring iconic symbol projects to new audiences.
They hosted their first symposium, “Symbol ’22: Symbol Sourcebook at 50” , attracting papers from prominent design historians and researchers along with design practitioners and an audience of 50 delegates.
In tandem, Sue has worked with Cooper Hewitt to produce a short film, Henry Dreyfuss: His Life With Symbols , which will feature in an exhibition launching in May 2023 .
The film was also premiered at the Symbol ’22 symposium.
Sue is currently applying for emeritus funding to revisit the Symbol Sourcebook archive to continue to research material to enable her to write a publication on Dreyfuss and the Symbol Sourcebook, bringing together her new and existing writing.
You can watch recordings of Symbol 22 at its dedicated YouTube channel .

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/blogs/safety-first-for-graphic-design-graduates:
Two MA Graphic Design graduates have tackled the issue of personal safety - particularly for women - in their final major projects.
13 December 2022
Keelin Wright and Stephanie Bignell both set out to change the narrative and improve safety for women and young people online, and on nights out, with their innovative ideas.
Keelin Wright’s final major project, BeSavvy, is a design for an app that helps people decide where to go on nights out.
“Drink spiking is a real issue, and something I wanted to tackle,” she said.
“Some young people, especially women, feel they need to take clingfilm on nights out to cover their drinks, or simply avoid certain bars and clubs.
I wanted to do something to make a positive change to young people’s safety on a night out.”
Keelin’s app concept allows users to rate pubs and nightspots for safety, and also staff/venue response to incidents.
This gives app users the chance to make an informed decision about where to go and which venues to support with their custom.
It also contains a function to report an incident and a 'get help' button to use in an emergency.
“I would love to take my idea further and turn BeSavvy into a widely available app," she said.
"It’s such an important topic.
After putting so much time and effort into this project, not to try and take it further would be a waste.”
“My next steps will be to approach developers and find the right people who can help me turn it into a reality.”
We asked Keelin what advice she would give current and future UCA students keen get the best from their uni experience.
“Just get completely stuck in,” she said.
“Ask loads of questions and don’t ever feel that a question is too silly, because those, in particular, can lead to interesting conversations.
Also - and I can’t stress this enough - make full use of the facilities!
And go to exhibitions, read magazines, follow people whose work you love – never stop looking for inspiration.
The last bit of advice that I would give is about tutorials – these are so valuable, so make sure to go to every single one possible, even if you haven’t made much progress with a project.”
Stephanie Bignell’s final major project is all about online harassment and trolling.
She’s created She Speaks Out , a zine with an Instagram account that already has more than 5,000 followers.
It was on Instagram that Stephanie first encountered online harassment herself.
“I have had many experiences of harassment, which have made me so angry and upset,” she said.
“The things men send to women online range from sexualised language/content to misogynistic behaviour, inappropriate remarks, body shaming comments, etc.
The experiences that I have faced and witnessed, and the lack of action to tackle the issue, inspired me to create my zine.
My aim has been to create an online community with a campaign-like approach that unites women and encourages them to speak out rather than stay silent.”
The zine shares information on what online harassment is and the different forms it takes.
It also amplifies women’s voices and experiences.
“I would love my campaign to become something well known - a strong community that women go to for support and safety; a space to vent and be heard, as well as listen to others.
Ideally it would also become a space for others to learn more about what’s going on, especially on social media,” Stephanie said.
"My hope is that creating a strong community of women who speak out about their experiences can help us to reach the people who run social media platforms, who can take further action to create the changes women want and need to feel safe online.
Stephanie wants to take She Speaks Out as far as she can, and is seeking help from The Princes Trust to get her business model up and running.
“I have really enjoyed my MA experience.
I was given the right support to break out of my shell, experiment and get out of my comfort zone, which I needed this year,” she said.
“I’ve been able to create projects that I am proud of, which I feel have made me a better designer.
I have developed my communication, organisation, professionalism and subject knowledge, and have learned a lot of new technical skills that have impacted my work.
All of this will really benefit me in my career.” Find out more about Graphic Design at UCA .

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/blogs/georginas-life-in-the-fast-lane:
It’s fair to say that the big thing in sport right now is Formula 1.
It’s got a bigger fanbase than ever before, and after the drama of the final race of the 2021-22 season in Abu Dhabi, it shows no signs of slowing.
But what’s it like to be part of the sport itself?
UCA Graphic Design graduate Georgina Sadler is able to tell us – thanks to her exciting job with Sky Sports.
26 August 2022
Above, from left, F1 world champion Max Verstappen, presenter Natalie Pinkham and Georgina Sadler
Georgina has been working with Sky Sports F1 as an assistant producer since 2020, and previously held roles at Budweiser, Arsenal FC and Polocam TV.
We caught up with her during the championship's summer break to find out about her time at UCA and what it’s like to be part of the action in the paddock.
Hi Georgina, thanks for chatting to us!
What was your time like at UCA, and what skills did you pick up during your course, that you still use today?
“Doing Graphic Design at UCA was highly enriching, learning a plethora of skills from screen-printing to bookbinding, photography and video-editing.
The skills I learned proved vital in developing my role as a Producer today.
Working with typography for example, is something I do very often in my role, as well as use Adobe’s creative apps like Premier Pro, After Effects, Photoshop and much more."
How did you land your job with Sky Sports F1, and what’s it like working for a large company like Sky?
“I applied for this job as assistant producer for Sky Sports Formula One through LinkedIn.
However, it wasn’t until a whole year later after the job post was advertised that I heard back.
Sky’s HR team kept a copy of my CV, and even though the job wasn’t filled when first advertised, they still had my details on record.
It goes to show that, even though you may not get the job right away, there could always be the possibility of that door opening again in the future.
“Working for such a big company like Sky was incredibly daunting at first.
All the different buildings, departments, people, and systems was overwhelming to start with, but there is so much training and support given, so all my fears were quickly washed away.
There are also so many opportunities to expand and grow your career too.
For example, I told my line manager that I wanted to produce a show, and I immediately got that opportunity and training, and have now been the producer for our Monday night show, Any Driven Monday , several times now.
Everyone is always keen to help, and there is a great sense of belonging and support.”
So, what’s a typical day like during the season, and especially on a race weekend?
“The world of Formula One certainly is crazy (in a great way that is!).
It’s fast-paced, high-octane, gets the heart pumping and your feet stomping!
You must have a can-do attitude, and a fire in your belly to produce the best of the rest, and being an extrovert and a high-energy person, it ticks all the boxes for me.
“Being an assistant Producer over a race weekend on the road means organising shoots and directing them, logging and transcribing footage to then pass onto an editor and have youp work be brought to life.
Sometimes you’re running up and down the paddock with microphones, cameras, tripods and more, helping the floor manager with the busy schedule of the day’s shows and pre-records that need to be done.
Other times you’re locked in a booth in the TV compound with your editor, making tweaks to an interview you shot the day before.
“During race weekends where I am not at the race, I will be back at Sky Studios in Osterley, planning the next shoot, logging footage to use in the next ‘Best Bits’ video or listening to the press conference and pen interviews that are happening live at the race destination, so I can then tell the producer in the gallery any key editorial that might have been said by a driver or team principal.
Georgina Sadler, centre, overseeing an interview between Martin Brundle and 2021 Mercedes driver Valtteri Bottas
“When there is no race weekend, my team of five other assistant producers and myself will be conjuring up all sorts of creative ideas to throw at our producers of fun and engaging things we can do for our broadcast production.
Finding voice-over artists to create moody openers for the races, or street performers that could creatively help tell a story, obtaining clearance and usage rights for music tracks, there’s always something different.”
What’s your most memorable F1 moment so far?
“My most memorable moment has to be from the Monaco Grand Prix – I was producing an interview with 2021 World Champion Max Verstappen and our presenter Natalie Pinkham on a Red Bull speed boat in the Monaco Harbour.
After we finished filming the interview, Max said we could all take the boat for a bit of a spin with him, and we all went really fast around the open water, laughing and being slightly terrified at the same time.
It was such a cool memory!”
There’s been a definite shift in the number of women involved in the presenting side of F1.
How does it feel to be a woman in such a male-dominated industry and what advice would you have for female students who might want to get involved in future?
“We now have three incredibly talented women on screen at Sky Sports F1 – Natalie Pinkham, Rachel Brookes, and former W-Series Driver Naomi Schiff.
Having more women on screen means more role-models for the younger generation which I think is key in inspiring younger women to come into Motorsport.
The Formula 1 grid may be 20 male drivers, but behind every team and organisation in the paddock are so many females, and I have seen more and more of them since joining Formula One just over two years ago.
The rise of W-Series has really helped in pushing women into motorsport too.
“My advice for younger women wanting to get into Formula 1 is believe in yourself, and be confident in the amazing, skilled and vibrant person that you are.
I had so much to learn when I got the job at Sky as assistant producer but proving I had the courage and confidence to take on any challenge really helped in my interview process.
If you really want a job, go above and beyond, do the unexpected and think outside the box.
Look out for the openings for the Graduate Programmes at Sky too.
They always feed into many other sports that helps give you the experience needed in broadcast.
Show your passion and don’t be afraid to say you don’t know something – as long as you are keen, and show willingness to learn, a company like Sky will be sure to nurture you.
I knew very little about Formula 1 when I first joined Sky Sports, but I loved producing content, and was very enthusiastic about the challenge ahead.
“There is also a fantastic social media platform called Females In Motorsport, who post fantastic career opportunities in motorsport, as well as inspiring articles, stories and more that young people can follow.”
From left, W series driver Alice Powell, Naomi Schiff, Georgina Sadler, Sky Digital Advocacy Executive Alexandra Horton and W series driver Jess Hawkins.
Finally, what’s the best piece of advice you’ve ever been given, that we can pass on to our current UCA students?
“The best piece of advice I have been given is to believe in the positive feedback you get.
That includes colleagues, friends, clients, family, everyone.
It’s easy to focus on the negatives and I think there is sometimes this drive to keep doing better, and that’s great, but just remember to give yourself that pat on the back that you’re doing well, you’re doing really well, and smile.
“Also drink more water!
I don’t do it enough, and I should, everyone should!”

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/blogs/through-the-eyes-of-a-graphic-design-student:
We’ve been asking our students about their UCA experience and what they get up to in a typical day, to show you what it’s like to study here.
This week, meet international student Weronika Moldawan, who’s in her final year of her BA (Hons) Graphic Design degree at UCA Farnham.
23 August 2022
“Hi!
My name is Weronika!
The reason why I chose this specific course isn't actually straightforward!
At first, I was thinking about studying Interior Design, as I have always been interested in similar subjects, but something didn’t quite sit right with me.
I decided to try Graphic Design with the motivation of learning a wider area of design that would let me choose a different path – in case I wasn’t too good with interiors – but I ended up so glad I did!
I discovered many fields of that I never thought about pursuing and I quickly found a subject that I immediately fell in love with and knew that it was something I should do.
“As an international student, I carefully researched different universities that would be worth moving abroad for.
The most important thing to me were what practical seminars and workshops on offer, so that was the aspect I started my investigation with.
Secondly, I needed to know that there would be high chances of me getting a job in a similar area after graduating, so I looked through the rankings, especially with high satisfaction of students doing a degree in Graphic Design.
UCA was on top of almost all of the areas that were significant to me.
“I really enjoy how UCA is not your regular school.
I never stress about waking up at 6am to make it to a never-ending lecture with tutors, which I am too scared of to ask any questions.
We usually start our day at 10am with a quick chat with the whole group about our wellbeing and expectations of upcoming projects.
After a practical lecture that introduces us to the subject we will be learning about during that week, we have a lunch break that allows us to rest or start thinking about ideas for our projects.
Then, from 1.30 until late afternoon we have group or individual workshops, where we can put our new knowledge into practice and start working on specific tasks that together build the whole project.
A typical day finishes at 4pm, but we have the opportunity to stay at campus as late as 8pm, which sometimes is a big help, if we want to study with the rest of the group and discuss our ideas together.”
What piece of work are you most proud of and why?
“The project I am the most satisfied with is my process book I designed during the second year of my studies.
The assignment was prepared for us to learn about ourselves as designers and deciding what is important to us when it comes to visual and practical aspects of our work.
The process book was the last task in the project, and it was supposed to capture the whole process of coming up with our ideas and recording each step of completing the tasks.
I wanted my work to present the main source of my inspiration – modern Japanese design.
I make the book entirely black and white, with small additions of transparent neon pink elements that would give my work a sense of energy, while being kept in minimalistic style.
I am still proud of how the book turned out and how I succeeded in presenting my design pillars in a visual way.”
Weronika's favourite UCA project so far
What’s your favourite UCA memory so far?
“Since I am a quite shy and introverted person, I thought that I would have a poor social life during my studies.
So, when I arrived at the Freshers Week, I followed everybody’s advice to go to as many Students Union events and join as many societies as I could to meet people in the very first week.
And honestly, that was the best thing I could do!
I met people in the same situation as me and we quickly became friends, which we still are today.
Deciding to step outside my comfort zone and living the moment during Freshers Week really made me confidence and gave me a lot of energy to do my first assignments.
Each year after that I still get excited about the Freshers, thinking about how I started my journey at university with wonderful people from other courses and how I didn’t let my shy side take control and make me miss out on the proper student experience.”
What is the biggest lesson you have learned at uni so far?
I can’t quite explain this, but university really taught me ‘life’.
Living alone and being in charge of cooking, cleaning and paying the bills, while organising my time to balance university responsibilities, work and social life taught me to focus on my priorities and listen to my body as to when to take a break and not go crazy.
Being at university in the environment of so many different people with different backgrounds also taught me to always have an open mind.
I believe that being at university is possibly the biggest life lesson a person can take.
I agree that we all grow through our whole life, but the time of being at university enabled me – and my friends – to gain knowledge in so many aspects that prepare us for adult life.”
What’s your go-to meal or recipe when cooking at home/halls?
“As I am a vegetarian, gluten-free and dairy-free person, the meals I cook usually take some time to prepare, but I always have some “emergency ideas” for extra busy days!
My favourite one is a one pot pasta with mushrooms and veggies, as it only requires throwing a portion of pasta, couple of frozen mushrooms and – ideally – frozen spinach and broccoli, adding a splash of almond (or regular!) milk so the pasta is covered in half and putting a cover onto it.
When you wait 15 minutes, adding your favourite spices and stirring from time to time, you will have a delicious meal that does not require washing a lot of dishes – you can eat straight from the pan if you want to save some extra minutes!”
Finally, what are your post-UCA career plans, and have they changed since you started your studies?
“At the beginning of my studies, I became so fascinated by editorial design – which is focused on visual communication through the display of information, for instance in posters, books, magazines, brochures and other kinds of print materials – that I decided that it is something I would really love to do professionally when I graduate.
For now, my plan is to apply for a job in a fashion or furniture company (I already have couple in mind!) and design their promotional materials.
It might not sound as fascinating for a person who never had experience with the technical sides of editorial design but working on applying the brand’s principles and desired narratives on typography, colour palette, display of components and style of aesthetics is actually a practice that requires lots of research and thought through plans – which is a pure enjoyment for me!
If you want to know more about studying Graphic Design at UCA, visit our course pages.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/blogs/illustration-students-beautiful-book-tackles-the-complexities-of-grief:
After losing someone close to her, BA Illustration student Lucy Munt set out to use her talents to help other young adults coping with loss.
12 April 2021
UCA students are constantly creating work that can inspire, innovate and stimulate conversation — and third-year Illustration student Lucy Munt’s latest project is a case in point.
Lucy, who studies at our Farnham campus, has created a book aimed at young adults, which offers advice on how to deal with grief.
She used her own experience of losing someone close to her suddenly as her motivation for the four-month project.
“I created ‘How do I grieve?’ from a brief set by the charity Creative Conscience,” says Lucy, who hopes to make a career as a freelance illustrator.
“I lost someone very close to me and it was a sudden death, which was so unexpected and an experience that I wish no one had to go through.
“From the project research, I learned that there aren’t many visual and metaphorical books on the market to help people understand grieving.
They just contain blocks of text, and don’t seem to be well thought out.
I felt this needed to change.
“I also learned that bereavement, especially in young adults, often leads to complicated grief or depression, and can result in an increase in drug, alcohol and tobacco use.”
The result of Lucy’s hard work is her beautiful book, which charts the story of Emma, who is going through the complicated journey of grieving after the loss of her best friend.
Lucy uses metaphorical objects to help the reader see grieving through symbols, which she uses to communicate emotions and feelings.
To create her book, Lucy experimented with many mediums, such as acrylic and watercolour paints, digital art and collages.
“I think it’s important to try a variety of working methods in order to discover the appropriate medium to communicate such an important subject,” says Lucy.
“I love Mixed Media, so my way of working is mixing analogue and digital mediums together to form a collage of my visuals.
Using Procreate allows me to quickly express my thoughts visually.
I used a variety of textured and analogue drawings that I photographed and mixed into my work to give it a much more personal touch.”
Lucy chose to study BA (Hons) Illustration because of her passion for telling stories.
“I like making images that can make a difference to people, whether that’s as part of educational books or just fun, creative illustrations that make people smile,” she says.
“I wanted to widen my knowledge within the creative industry, to experiment with different styles and to use the facilities to work in different professional environments.
The atmosphere at UCA is extremely creative and that’s what I love to surround myself in and get involved with.”
Lucy is now hoping to find a publisher who will turn her book into a real, tangible product.
Anyone interested in helping can reach her via her Instagram page, @lucymunt

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/blogs/xuans-comic-aims-to-shed-light-on-tourettes:
What is it like living with Tourette’s Syndrome?
MA Illustration student Xuan Liu, who has the condition, has created a comic strip book to give people an insight.
31 August 2022
Xuan, who goes by the artist’s name Bernini, is from China, and wanted to study Illustration in the UK because of its traditional look and feel.
“I liked to draw since I was a child until I got interested in illustration at university and found it to be a creative profession, I heard that illustration in the UK is very traditional, so I decided to study traditional illustration,” she said.
Her book is called The Elephant, and details how the main character – a girl with Tourette’s, goes on a journey from finding she has the condition, to accepting herself.
Tourette’s is an inherited condition, the key features of which are ticks, involuntary and uncontrollable sounds and movements like whistles, coughs, or words.
“It affects me a lot, I sometimes have insomnia, and I sometimes have trouble concentrating and twitching,” she said.
“ I am on medication to control it though, so I don't need additional support.
“I liken Tourette's to an elephant in the comics because that's how I feel, I'm like the elephant in the room, everyone knows I'm different, even think I'm weird, but because they are adults, they don't say it directly.
"I hope that people without Tourette Syndrome read this cartoon more than people with it, because I want everyone to know more about this disease.”
Want to see more amazing work like this?
Our postgraduate graduation shows continue across our campuses this week until September 4, and online.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ba-studio-practice-illustration:
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our BA (Hons) Studio Practice (Illustration) (top-up) degree:
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Studio Practice (Illustration) (top-up) students may be interested in.
Your focus will be on the resolution of your personal approach to content and style, developing your creative skills and production to a high standard and preparing a professional portfolio.
You’ll also participate in external competitions and shows, produce promotional work and develop an online presence, reflecting your ambitions for professional practice.
Eloise Dilnutt, BA (Hons) Illustration, UCA Farnham
Rebecca Dennis, BA (Hons) Illustration, UCA Farnham
Elizabeth Reed, BA (Hons) Illustration, UCA Farnham
Elizabeth Wheatley, BA (Hons) Illustration, UCA Farnham
Ines Oliveira Araujo, BA (Hons) Illustration, UCA Farnham
Irys Bird, BA (Hons) Illustration, UCA Farnham
Ronice Appleby-Kerr, BA (Hons) Illustration, UCA Farnham
Yilan Wang, BA (Hons) Illustration, UCA Farnham
Constance Warboys, BA (Hons) Illustration, UCA Farnham
Jessica Hayes, BA (Hons) Illustration, UCA Farnham

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2025/new-art-installation-aldershot-railway-station:
Passengers can now enjoy a vibrant new art installation at Aldershot Railway Station after “All Aboard” was unveiled at a special ceremony.
24 January 2025
l-r: Deputy Leader of Rushmoor Borough Council Cllr Sophie Porter, Mayor of Rushmoor Borough Council Cllr Mara Makunura, Brianna and Leader of Rushmoor Borough Council Cllr Gareth Williams
The artwork, created by a University for the Creative Arts (UCA) graduate, is in the underpass between the platforms at the busy station, and is part of a collaborative project between UCA in Farnham, Rushmoor Borough Council, Network Rail, South Western Railway, and local signage company Reade Signs.
Created by Brianna Chartrand , a BA Illustration UCA graduate, the artwork depicts key heritage sites around Aldershot, including the Cenotaph in Municipal Gardens, Cambridge Military Hospital, and the Post Office building in the town centre.
The design also features Nepali mandala patterns and poppies in tribute to Aldershot’s role as the Home of the British Army.
Brianna Chartrand
In addition to enhancing commuters’ travel experience, the project also celebrates the recent opening of Polden Studios in September 2024, a new accommodation space for UCA students in the Union Yard development at the heart of Aldershot Town Centre.
Diane Highet, Town Centres Manager at Rushmoor Borough Council, and Claire Lowe, Brand Marketing Manager at UCA, have worked closely with station staff and Reade Signs to bring this vibrant display to life.
Rushmoor Borough Council’s Cabinet member for Development and Economic Growth, Councillor Keith Dibble , said: “This is a wonderful example of how collaboration between local businesses, artists, and institutions can enhance the community and bring vibrancy to our public spaces.
“The “All-Aboard” installation beautifully captures the essence of Aldershot’s past and present, making it a fitting addition to the station and a source of pride for the community,” he added.
Claire Lowe, Brand Marketing Manager at UCA , added: “We’re delighted to bring a burst of creativity from one of our talented graduates to a small pocket of Aldershot.
We hope the vibrant visual celebration of the town will bring joy to commuters through the station.”
“All Aboard” can now be viewed at Aldershot Train Station.
The project has been funded by the UK Shared Prosperity Fund, Rushmoor Borough Council and UCA.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/blogs/illustration-grads-project-unmasks-life-as-a-quiet-kid:
After struggling with moving away from home and family, BA (Hons) Illustration graduate Promise Oladimeji conceived a striking and empowering project to help others understand her experience.
14 June 2024
Following her move away from the family connections and familiarity of East London to study in Farnham, BA (Hons) Illustration student Promise Oladimeji says that at times she felt out of place, and unable to show her true self.
So she decided to turn those feelings into a stunning and empowering final major project.
Her project, titled Alienation, explores her feelings of social isolation and their emotional and physical manifestations.
She showcases them in series of illustrated masks, which – when put together – show how suffocating and uncomfortable it is to try to keep up multiple facades at once.
“For better or for worse, I’m always brimming with emotions, so using this as my theme worked in my favour – there was a lot of content to investigate,” she says.
“The main part of my project is a showcase of masks: different ones that I may find myself ‘putting on’ in various situations.
I created each one with a unique design so that it would be clear that they have distinct functions."
Alongside the masks, Promise has produced a booklet explaining her work in more depth, and a lyric video inspired by the work of Young-Hae Chang, which features an upbeat tune she composed herself, and childlike illustrations, juxtaposed with more sombre lyrics.
Every element has been carefully and deliberately crafted - from the colour choices to the silhouettes and the patterns on the masks.
Promise hopes that putting her feelings into the public sphere will mean that audiences can better understand her as a person:
“I’d like people to understand what goes on in my mind (and possibly the minds of other ‘quiet kids’), when I’m sat in the corner with earphones jammed in, seemingly reluctant to jump into a conversation when, in reality, I just feel unable to,” she says.
“This is how I feel and act in almost every social scene that I find myself in, unless I’m around my family.
It has been weird externalising to publicise an experience that has been so personal, but I think these features are what make my project so dear to me.
My passion for this topic is what drove me to tirelessly create so much for it, and in such depth, and I’m very proud of my outcomes.”
Promise hopes her showcase at this year’s Grad Shows will help propel her towards her ultimate career ambition of publishing a successful webcomic.
In the meantime, she would like it to open some doors for her with potential freelance work, or illustrating children’s books.
Recently, she’s taken part in UCA’s Winter and Summer markets, which have proved a real highlight of her time here.
“The Markets were the first time I really put myself out there to publicly sell my art, and both were  fulfilling experiences.
I really enjoyed discussing my pieces and general style with people, and it was an honour to see them show an interest in my art, as well as buy it,” she says.
"They have even made me consider applying for external markets and conventions to continue to share and sell my art!
"For me, the UCA experience has been one of development.
Recently, as I was clearing my heinously jam-packed camera roll of uni pictures I didn’t need anymore, I came across some of the art I’d made at the beginning of my course in 2021.
After I was done grimacing at my lack of technical skills, I could only marvel at how far my art has come since then, and how my personal style has really developed.
It’s been a long, but necessary, journey.”
You can see Promise’s project, and hundreds of others, on show in our 2024 Online Showcase and at UCA Farnham from June 13 to June 25.
And if her work inspires you, why not check out our Illustration course ?

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2024/illust-student-has-drawings-published-in-new-book:
A third-year illustration student from the University for the Creative Arts (UCA) has played her part in a new book of rhymes about the London underground.
03 June 2024
Waterloo & City line .
Wonderground by Harry Miller and with illustrations by Stephanie Zhao
Stephanie Zhao, from Farnham, was picked to illustrate Wonderground , a book written and conceived by London-born creative Harry Miller, after responding to his call- out via a UK u niversity noticeboard.
“We started working together, and how lucky I was!” said Harry.
Stephanie brought to life Harry’s rhymes for each underground line, guided by his description of the kind of image he imagined and incorporating her own touches.
Hammersmith & City line.
She said: “My favourite line to illustrate was the Hammersmith & City Line.
I liked the anthropomorphic pigeon, Sam, who looked proud and unbothered – just like the real London pigeons.
“But the biggest challenge was choosing what sole scene would best capture the essence of each line.
It involved careful consideration and discussions with Harry and, for most of the lines, I sketched multiple versions for Harry to choose which best conveyed the story's mood and message.
Wonderground contain s tailored rhymes for each of the 11 underground lines, from a rhyme about a rude guy with large headphones who met THE MAGNIFICENT ELEPHANT (with his small brain) on the Bakerloo line, to another about the famous astronaut, Peggy Whitson, who loved to ride the futuristic Jubilee line.
Bakerloo line.
Stephanie hopes her illustrations will bring joy to the readers and spark connection with the characters and scenes, making their reading experience more fun and meaningful.
To order a copy of the book from the publisher, visit The Book Guild website or, visit your local bookshop.
Follow Stephanie on Instagram

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2024/illustrators-childhood-tale-turned-into-kids-book:
A childhood tale about a visit to the Highlands of Scotland has been turned into a heartwarming children’s book by a University for the Creative Arts (UCA) Illustration and Animation graduate.
10 January 2024
Mara of the Loch is written and illustrated by Hannah Maclennan, and is about a girl called Isla who, with her mother, visits her grandparents and adventures ensue.
It’s inspired by a tale her mother used to tell her when she was young, about a creature who lived in the loch behind her grandparents’ house.
“My family come from the western isles of Scotland and we would visit on special occasions and holidays and my grandparents told me old stories from their childhood and old legends from the island,” she said.
Hannah was originally enrolled on an illustration course in Scotland but switched to UCA Canterbury part-way through.
“I always knew I wanted to pursue something in art, but it wasn’t until I came to UCA that I figured out what,” she said.
“The course shaped my artistic journey and equipped me with the skills to thrive in the field.”
As well as giving her a strong foundation in both traditional and digital illustration, her Illustration and Animation degree taught her how to structure stories, develop characters, and the importance of experimenting – all tools she’s used to create her children’s book.
Hannah’s illustration style draws inspiration from traditional storybooks but with a modern twist using digital techniques, and it wasn’t until her final year of university, during lockdown, that she honed her skills through constant drawing.
“I love how illustrations come in different styles, each beautiful and capable of triggering warm, nostalgic feelings,” she said.
“The use of colours, lines, and shapes always catches my eye.”
She got her book published after working on a few collaborative projects with Comics Youth, a non-profit supporting youth to make comics and zines.
They offered Hannah a one-book deal with their sister company, Marginal Publishing.
Hannah is hoping her book will be the first of many and is actively seeking representation from an agent while pursuing various freelance projects and holding down a part-time job at a nursery – the perfect audience for her stories.
She also had this advice for students graduating this summer and looking to get into publishing: “Start by connecting, shaping your style, sharing your work, and sending emails.
Don’t be discouraged by rejections – you never know what might come your way.”
You can order a copy of Mara of the Loch from the Marginal Publishing website.
To learn more about studying animation or illustration at UCA, visit our course pages.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ba-studio-practice-interior-design:
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our BA (Hons) Studio Practice (Interior Design) (top-up) degree:
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Studio Practice (Interior Design) (top-up) students may be interested in.
Your studies will align with the work undertaken by final year undergraduate students throughout the School of Architecture & Design, with high-level contextual research and the production of a portfolio ready for your career.
Design 05 – Pitch and Prototype You will engage with exciting new technologies and produce compelling digital and physical prototypes through the rapid acquisition and integration of new skills within your spatial design workflows.
During the preparation phase of this unit, you will identify new technologies for the design, representation, or production of project outcomes, engaging in practical and theoretical up-skilling to enable you to leverage these new opportunities in the realisation phase.
Briefs and Positions 03 You will prepare an advanced set of briefing materials that will inform and guide your development of a medium-scale design proposal in the subsequent Final Major Project unit.
You will consider a context at the scale of an expanded spatial or material network and engage with three overlapping domains of action and knowledge to interrogate it - creative studio-based speculation, professional site analysis and (culturally critical research.
Major Project After defining your own brief during the previous unit, with the support of your tutor, you will develop and complete an expansive project that uses all your skills in design, making, research and project development.
The finished work should reflect your deep understanding of contemporary spatial design practice.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2020/remodelling-design-lectures-2020:
Two major names in UK design - Pascal Anson and Professor Graeme Brooker - are among the speakers in a new lecture series, kicking off the Autumn term for Furniture, Interiors and Product course.
12 October 2020
Programme Director Mark Gower has devised the talks programme – entitled Remodelling – which starts this Thursday at 5pm.
All talks are from 5-6pm – see below for Zoom links if you’d like to join.
For the first talk this week, as well as introducing the course to new students, Mark will be talking to Gabriella Evans, a recent graduate who now works at the Design Stories practice, about her move into the world of professional design.
Gabriella will be followed by Pascal Anson and Professor Graeme Brooker.
Pascal joins Mark on Thursday 22 October, discussing designing everything from a jumbo jet to a business card.
As well as his work as an artist, Pascal has his own design studio and is also known as a mentor on the BBC programme, The Big Painting Challenge.
The following Thursday, 29 October, Professor Brooker will be talking about his career as an author and academic specialising in interior design.
Graeme is currently head of interior design at the Royal College of Art.
Mark said: “As designers of products, furniture and interiors one of our responsibilities is to look after this fragile planet we live on.
The only way forward for us to achieve this is to work with what already exists around us, whether that is the reuse of materials or the remodelling of old appliances or existing buildings.
The making or building from new will soon be an occupation of the past and the job at hand it is to adapt the existing environment and stuff that surrounds us.”

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/blogs/architecture-interior-design-and-the-art-of-collaboration:
Studying architecture and interior design at postgraduate level is about so much more than learning your craft in the classroom.
21 February 2019
Collaborating on projects and having the freedom to explore your ideas with like-minded people is key to ensuring you fulfil your potential, helping you to build the foundation for a rewarding career.
Tyler Lemmon is studying a Master of Architecture (ARB/RIBA Part 2) postgraduate degree at UCA Canterbury following his BA in Architecture and a work placement.
“I knew I wanted to continue studying architecture after my year out in industry,” he said.
“UCA was just a great place to come back to, I knew the layout and staff, so it took some of the stress off that Masters brings.
“The studio layouts mean that within the building you are always interacting with students from a range of years, which helps the quality of the work grow as a unit throughout the university.”
One of Tyler’s projects, Composed Chaos , recently received a special mention in the prestigious Drawing of the Year competition.
“The accolade was actually a bit of a shock,” he said.
“I think after considering how many applicants the competition gets from a wide international basis, it sunk in that it was something to be proud of.
It’s something I would mention on a CV going forward into Part 3 and work in industry.”
Fellow students across a wider creative community can have a huge influence on your work.
Other creative disciplines such as art and design, fine art, graphic design and creative computing are all taught at UCA, opening up opportunities to work with — and be inspired by — like-minded people.
“We explore the outer realm of the discipline of Architecture and Interior Design and its intersection with art, through experimental design projects,” says MA Architecture Subject Leader Lucy Jones, “maximising the in-house technical expertise available in the School of Architecture.
Students are trained to be self-motivated, independent and encouraged to take risks and be ingenious!”
Being innovative and experimental goes hand-in-hand with a collaborative approach and is what helps push the boundaries of any creative discipline.
“My favourite thing about studying at UCA is being able create and think of every single detail of everything I dreamed of with the best technological facilities such as laser cutting, 3D printing and workshops,” says MArch graduate Aliriza Eren.
Of course, your entire experience throughout your studies is underpinned by an exceptional teaching programme, delivered by lecturers and technicians who are not only experts on their subjects, but who have valuable industry experience and contacts for your future career.
Our postgraduate Subject Leaders at UCA have several years’ practice experience working with the likes of design collective Warmbaby , the Arts Council of England and the Architectural Association.
The value of our academics’ experience and expertise, alongside a passion for their subject, is reflected in the feedback from our students:
Find out how we can support your journey in architecture and interior design and help you realise your creative potential through postgraduate study.
At UCA we offer MA Architecture, Master of Architecture (ARB/RIBA Part 2 ) and MA Interior Design courses at postgraduate level.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/blogs/a-day-in-the-life-of-an-interior-architecture--design-student:
First year student, Tiff Ruane, takes you through what you can expect to experience on a normal day at UCA.
17 January 2019
Having visited my fair share of universities and courses, I can safely say that the choice to come and study here on the Farnham based Interior Architecture & Design course was by far my greatest decision.
The area, campus, facilities, course and extra activities are great, with plenty of opportunities to expand your skillset and, at times, step away from the enjoyable intensity of the course itself.
Currently I live in Wrecclesham, the next town over from Farnham which is about a seven-minute drive or 30/40-minute walk from the university (depending on how quickly you walk or how late you’re running) and about the same for Farnham Station as well.
Although that seems like a long journey it’s rather pleasant with a lot of the area being made up of parks, mini forest-like spaces and farms with horses or cows in and they’re always nice to walk past in the morning.
It’s a peaceful village with some local amenities but Farnham town centre is the best option for your shopping needs as it has most of the big stores.
Our studio is separate to the main campus building and only shared with two other courses, Graphic Design and Games Arts, so it’s always peaceful and s prevents everyone else from taking over the studios and IT suites.
The studio itself is pretty big and at times separated off into two rooms thanks to the moveable partition wall, although this is only ever done if multiple years need access to the space for taught lessons.
Tuesdays are one of the more packed days within the course schedule, with the day starting at 9:30am.
The mornings consist of two lectures given by the Year 1 Course Tutor, Michael, with each semester having its own topic.
The first relates to the History of Architecture and our current series is all about Design Technology.
These are incredibly important and help to give all your work some context, relating it to specific movements or technologies that fit your design style.
There’s also a test at the end of the series so it’s always recommended that you take notes, not only for the mini exam but also to put into your design process both throughout your uni career and beyond.
After a short break there is another lecture, although it’s more like a discussion, regarding the current project everyone is working on.
We look at what we have accomplished each week and what is to be done during the remainder of the project as well as our afternoon Studio Task.
The latter part of the day is dedicated to the task which usually consists of different drawing techniques or processes, ones that will help us to construct and visualise our designs.
This time can also be used to discuss any queries we have with the project and have our work looked at and checked off to make sure we can complete our tasks effectively.
Our current project is titled ‘Waiting and Information Booth’ and requires us to design a small, mountable and small batch produced seating area for a specific location, ours being the Tate Modern.
The most recent Studio Task involved Isometric and Axonometric drawings which we will use over the next few weeks to realise our designs and make sure they meet the brief requirements.
At the end of the day, mainly on Tuesdays, I stay late and work with the CAD/CAM Technician, Ben, on our courses 3D Printer.
This machine is of huge interest to me and being able to work on it is not only fascinating, resulting in a whole load of new skills, but also means that everyone across all three years can use it for future projects on the course.
It’s also a major part of what my future career plans involve so it’s a good activity to get involved in.
Both the campus and Farnham town have some pretty interesting stuff to do outside of the course.
There’s a lot of Students’ Union societies to join like Table Tennis, Life Drawing and Gardening, just to name a few, and in the town centre there are a whole load of coffee shops (the UCA library also has its own independent one which is lovely, plus it’s right next to the studio) where you can relax and treat yourself to a whole load of delicious bakery items.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2020/students-launch-free-service-for-small-businesses:
This week, students studying on the BA (Hons) Advertising course at the University of Creative Arts (UCA) have launched an innovative marketing service to assist small businesses
29 April 2020
This week, students studying on the BA (Hons) Advertising course at the University of Creative Arts (UCA) have launched an innovative marketing service to assist small businesses who need to adapt their products and services in response to the current COVID-19 crisis.
Charlie Smith one of the students said: “We heard about small businesses needing help to communicate with their clients; to tell them that they are still open for business, to tell them how they have had to change the way in which they operate, and then to re-establish themselves once the current difficulties are over.
We have a strong set of skills so we are keen to help by providing services that many small businesses simply cannot afford at the moment.”
©INTERN
The free to use online advertising agency called INTERN, will also benefit businesses that are taking advantage of this time to revisit their marketing strategies and to also assist them in planning campaigns for the future.
The students have pooled their skills to provide services including, social media content and management, advertising strategy, advert creation, web design, and logo design.
“The course has given us the skills to think creatively and the confidence to open an agency knowing that we will be able to produce industry-standard work,” explained Charlie.
“Mark Brill our lecturer has been a fantastic support!”
©Charlie Smith
COVID-19 will inevitably change the advertising landscape and the relationship between brands, sellers, service providers and their customers going forwards.
“Goodwill, trust and sensitivity will remain important messages in the future as the impact of COVID-19 will remain in the public psyche for many years to come,” added Charlie.
You can contact the agency via Instagram @InternCreativeAgency or by emailing InternCreativeAgency@gmail.com
To find out more about studying Advertising at UCA, visit the course pages .
Charlie Smith

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ba-music-sound-production:
Explore multiple analogue and digital learning environments
Professional development from the start
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our BA (Hons) Music & Sound Production degree:
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Music & Sound Production students may be interested in.
Digital Environments You’ll explore how digital technology is used for producing music, learning how to use a variety of software tools to create original sounds and combine these with audio samples to produce finished tracks.
You will also delve into the world of mixing, and study the history of studio technology.
Digital Project As you create your own productions for live shows, you will explore how computers can be used as flexible musical instruments.
You will learn about both planning and improvising during live performances, and you will experiment with different performance techniques using digital audio workstations and software controllers.
This unit also encourages you to explore the music of diverse genres and cultures.
Analogue Environments This unit explores the world of analogue technology as an environment for music production and sound design.
Through interactive studio sessions, engaging seminars, and hands-on workshops, you will learn how to record live instruments using an analogue signal path and mix tracks using traditional studio approaches.
Professional Development This unit introduces you to the current working structures and operations of the UK and global music and media industries, giving insights into how music producers, film/media producers and businesses interact with each other on a creative and commercial basis.
Analogue Project This unit builds on the fundamentals of analogue production and sound design and presents your work in the form of a live performance.
Through a series of studio sessions and workshops, you will engage in the rehearsal process and learn how to mix and capture live sound on location, working in small groups to prepare content for live performance on campus to an audience of your peers, academics, and the public.
Sound Design This unit builds upon what you have learned so far about sound design in your first year and helps you refine your skills in editing and creatively manipulating audio.
You will develop efficient workflows for editing and enhancing a wide range of sounds, such as realistic Foley and special effects.
You will be introduced the world of coding and programming languages, exploring everything from customized digital workflows to the generation of musical ideas using algorithmic processes.
Sampler Instruments In this unit, you will discover the art of sampling and how to create your own digital sampler instrument, building upon your experience of creating both original music and tools used in the production process.
Through workshops and seminars, you will explore the exciting possibilities of sampler instruments in music and sound production, from realistic virtual instruments to sound effects and Foley.
By the end of the unit, you will apply your knowledge and skills in a DAW-based production that features your unique sampler instrument.
Placement / Live Brief You’ll be required to research, negotiate and undertake a self-initiated work experience placement opportunity or other professional interactions within a business appropriate to the music, sound or media industries such as a “live brief” or collaboration with a student from another course.
Dissertation The dissertation is documentation of a sustained academically rigorous argument.
Taken together, you’ll create a dossier, which evidences the steps taken to prepare yourself for the future.
Our teaching spaces have a mixture of analogue and digital equipment.
We have sound editing, recording and mixing suites with software such as Avid Pro Tools, Steinberg Dorico and Cubase, Ableton Live, Max/MSP, Logic Pro and the Vienna Symphonic Library.
The media store has a good supply of equipment to hire, specialist music equipment includes: Ableton push controllers, amplifiers, midi keyboards and high quality microphones such as the Neuman U87 and AKG 414.
You'll also have access to the Grove Music dictionary and Naxos Music Library.
Graduates of this course can expect to continue in their career within a variety of different roles.
Second year student, Clayton De Haan, tells us that there is no such thing as an average day on his course.
We’ll need to see your portfolio of musical work for this course:
View Music & Sound Production portfolio advice

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/blogs/mikes-musical-journey-brings-him-to-uca:
Award-winning film composer Mike McEvoy is among the latest to embark on groundbreaking creative research as a UCA PhD candidate.
30 August 2023
Above, a selection of the many film and television projects Mike McEvoy has worked on in his career
Emmy award-winning and Ivor Novello-nominated Mike McEvoy has set out on a new musical journey as he undertakes PhD studies at UCA, investigating how images can influence musicians' compositional choices.
Mike, who hails from America, has worked alongside the likes of Richard Linklater, Paul Oakenfold and Ricky Gervais, but has now come to UCA to fulfil his long-term ambition of studying a research degree.
“I had been thinking about doing a PhD for several years," he says.
"When I came across UCA, I felt a resonance with the creative ethos.
As my professional practice is multidisciplinary – working in film/TV scoring, jazz, songwriting and production, I was attracted by UCA’s innovative and open approach.
“The experience has been very positive so far; it’s challenged me.
I’m growing enormously through the process.
I have two fantastic supervisors who are experts in their fields.
The facilities are amazing, and all the staff are dedicated and highly skilled.”
Mike's PhD is entitled Indeterminacy, Improvisation and Process in Music Performance to Moving Image.
“If we take the example of a film or TV show, music is often used to create emotion and drive the narrative forward," he says.
"Instrumental music can take us on a journey and tell stories.
In place of words, visuals can provide inspiration for musicians.
Film and TV music is essentially the organising of musical decisions made by a composer in response to given visual sequences.
Pieces are most often strictly notated and performed verbatim.
“What I’m exploring in my research is how musicians respond to compositions that I’ve made differently.
In these pieces I have integrated moving images and loose written directions; I am looking at how the musicians respond in collaborative setting; how the images and directions might guide the groups' collective intentions.”
Through his research, he hopes to uncover experimental techniques that will provide tools for collaborative processes between composers and musicians, and to develop a series of  compositions for performance.
Over the years, Mike has worked on a multitude of different musical projects, traversing the boundaries between film, documentary, television and popular music.
In 2019 he was nominated for an Ivor Novello award for a piece he wrote for a small jazz ensemble called Mother Medusae .
His music for the documentary Tennessee Yearbook won an Emmy Award (Mid-South Region).
But what musical score is he most proud of?
“This is a difficult question, because each film and TV project I work on is unique,” he says.
“What I’d say is that there are many projects that I’m equally proud of and feel privileged to have worked on, largely due to the subject matter and the vision of the director.
The Peabody Award-winning feature documentary The Jazz Ambassadors is a case in point.
But there are others: Alien Deep, a NatGeo documentary series about the deepest parts of our oceans, and E=mc 2 , a docu-drama based on David Bodanis’s book about the famous equation.
All were amazing projects that gave me a lot of creative scope and, as a result, I learned so much from the process.”
Before his work in film and television, Mike also made his name in the world of pop music, working with the likes of Scritti Politti, Ian Dury, Mark Morrison, and Steve Winwood/Traffic.
In the 1980s he was a keyboard player for the band Curiosity Killed the Cat, and he also worked on Soul II Soul’s second album Volume II: 1990 New Decade.
“I started my career in as a songwriter, arranger, and musician in the pop music industry.
This was back in the 1980s and things were very different, as you can imagine!
I had some amazing experiences working with many diverse artists in the studio.
Because I knew music theory, due to my classical training, and was a multi-instrumentalist, I was able to bring skills that many artists and producers found useful.
I was never very interested in becoming an artist in my own right though – I enjoy the creative process working behind the scenes in a supporting role.
“My experience as an arranger/musical director laid the groundwork for me to focus on film and TV composition, which I did after completing a Masters in Composition for Screen at the Royal College of Music in 2005.
Writing for live orchestral musicians and having the chance to experiment with aspects of sound design was exciting and creatively refreshing.
My decision to transition into film and TV composing was also motivated by the feeling that pop music had changed substantially.
In many respects, I no longer felt connected to the music.
I was looking for new challenges, which film and TV composition provided.”
You can read more about Mike’s career, and his PhD study, on his student profile page .
If you’re interested in taking your own passions to a research study level, why not take a look at UCA’s Doctoral College .

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2023/how-memory-makes-us-who-we-are:
Later this month, Dr Harry Whalley, a reader in sound and music at the University for the Creative Arts (UCA), will perform in a concert that explores the conversation around music and memory.
12 May 2023
On Memory is a collaboration between Harry Whalley, the author Alexander McCall Smith, and the neurologist Adam Zeman.
They will be joined on stage by Soprano Sarah Dacey and the Gildas string quartet.
The concert will explore different types of memory, each movement examines a different aspect in detail and covers some of the topics that Harry discusses below.
What is memory?
You may hear that a goldfish has a memory of 3 seconds, and an elephant never forgets.
As a researcher these claims may demand some proof, but the conclusion that human memory falls somewhere between the two feels intuitive.
Memory is a crucial cognitive function that allows us to learn, make decisions, and solve problems.
Memory takes different forms such as: sensory memory, short-term memory (essential for music composition and processing), and long-term memory.
The brain regions like the hippocampus, prefrontal cortex, and amygdala play key roles in memory processing.
In other words, there is no ‘single point’ that stores a memory, instead it is through association and embodiment that memory takes place.
How do our memories shape our personalities/sense of identity throughout our lives?
Memories play an essential part in shaping our personalities and sense of identity throughout our lives, from even before we are born to late adulthood.
In early childhood, the foundation of our identity begins to form as we observe and interact with our environment, family, and caregivers.
As we grow older and enter adolescence, our sense of self becomes more complex, with memories of experiences, achievements, and relationships contributing to our self-esteem and self-concept.
During this stage, we actively explore our identities, experiment with different roles, and form strong memories associated with these experiences – for many people it is at this point in life that music and identify become particularly intertwined (think about the soundtrack from your own teenage years).
In adulthood, our sense of identity stabilises, informed by past experiences, memories, and ongoing personal growth.
Relationships, professional experiences, and personal achievements continue to shape our self-perception and identity, while the process of reminiscing in late adulthood helps individuals find meaning in their lives and maintain a sense of continuity despite physical and cognitive changes.
Musical memories again have a special place now; as other types of memories fade, we often find a persistence in musical memories.
Why does music have such a power to evoke memories?
Music's unique ability to evoke memories stems from its strong emotional connections and engagement of multiple brain regions.
Listening to a particular song or melody can trigger emotions that become associated with the music and the context of our initial experience, leading to powerful recall of specific events, people, or places.
Music's repetitive and structured nature, with elements like rhythm, melody, and harmony, allows our brains to easily encode and recognize patterns, forming robust neural connections that link music to specific memories.
Often experienced in social settings, music's emotional impact and the strength of the memories it evokes are heightened.
Building a connection between songs and associations is the focus of some of my research - using memory-tracks - a platform for people living with dementia.
For those residents taking part in the study and their caregivers, we found that daily tasks, when undertaken to a specific piece of music, can act as a sort of framework for the day, reducing agitation and fostering familiarity by eliciting an emotional response in the brain.
This engagement creates a sense of calm.
As Mark Brill, one of my collaborators at UCA, puts it “the power of music is never more apparent than when you can see its effects in such an immediate and significant way”.
This is one reason I feel so passionate about sharing my research.
More recently I have been undertaking a study, lessons in lifecare, with colleagues at the UCA Audio Research Cluster on the different effects that live and recorded music have for people living with dementia.
Both recorded and live music seem to have specific benefits, personal connections to specific recordings on the one hand, group participation and social benefits on the other.
The project also bridges generational gaps as we collaborate, not only with the lifecare centre and its staff but also with the musicians.
The lesson is clear, but easy to miss - that music is functional; socially functional, emotionally functional.
As this research continues, we build a better and more accurate picture of how to use music in as a form care.
What happens to our sense of self when we lose our memories?
When we sadly lose our memories, our sense of self can become profoundly impacted.
Memory loss, which can occur due to various factors such as aging, neurodegenerative diseases, brain injury, or psychological trauma, can lead to difficulties in recognising ourselves and others, recalling past events, or understanding our roles in different contexts.
With the loss of essential autobiographical information, we may struggle to maintain a coherent and continuous sense of self, which can lead to feelings of confusion, disorientation, and distress.
Music can play a role in this regard too.
Music is increasingly being recognised for the care itcan provide when planning for the future of an individual’s health.
Thinking about the music that we want to bring with us through our lives is a thought-provoking exercise.
On Memory in science and music from UCA Audio Research on Vimeo .
On Memory will take place at Kings Place in London on Saturday 27 May at 7.30pm.
Use the discount code UCA at checkout for £5 tickets.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/blogs/greek-showcase-for-etude-for-virtual-space:
Postdoctoral Teaching Fellow Dr Alexandros Spyrou has been exhibiting his latest project at an international technology conference in Greece.
28 November 2022
Etude for Virtual Space was one of a number of innovative projects that formed part of the Beyond Expo, as part of the Thessaloniki International Fair, with more than 500 people taking part in the experience.
An interdisciplinary VR project integrating music and visual design, Etude for Virtual Space was created by Dr Spyrou in collaboration with Cooperative Innovations, a UK VR development company.
It shows four musicians of a string quartet within a virtual environment, which users can navigate to experience interactive sounds, shapes, and colours.
The music within the experience is based on a collection of sound spectra that stretch, compress, or overlap gradually transforming into one another.
Musical parameters such as pitch, duration, dynamics and spatialization are mapped to provide visual effects over and around the musicians.
“I was fascinated by the audience’s vivid reactions while exploring the virtual space and their interaction with immersive technologies,” said Dr Spyrou.
“I feel lucky to have collaborated with a creative group coming from diverse disciplines as I believe that international collaborations and non-academic partnerships are essential for increasing the visibility and impact of the research and creative practice produced at UCA.”
Dr Spyrou, who teaches composition at UCA, composes chamber, orchestral and electronic music, and writes about music and its intersection with philosophy.
He’s also the founder and director of the Delian Academy for New Music (Greece).
In addition to Etude for Virtual Space, he’s recently presented his paper, “The effectiveness of vibrotactile sensor technology on the creation of an augmented reality music experience" at the Extended Senses Symposium at the University of Greenwich, and he’s currently working on a new project, called "AR-phonema" for voice and electronics, in collaboration with soprano Emily Thorne.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/blogs/snapping-the-stars-how-phoebe-fox-became-a-celebrity-photographer:
The UCA alumna on touring with The Amazons and Anne Marie, and what it took to get from her uni course to her dream career
29 May 2020
The road to success isn’t always linear — sometimes it takes a leap of faith, a bit of luck, knowing the right people and having a lot of initiative.
Someone who knows all about that is UCA graduate Phoebe Fox, who switched degree courses, collaborated with students on other degrees, networked throughout the industry and worked photography jobs in the middle of her studies to achieve her dreams.
Today, she’s travelling the world and touring with some of the hottest musical acts — from The Amazons to Anne Marie — to capture their most important moments, from preparing backstage to performing in front of thousands.
We caught up with Phoebe to find out how she became a photographer to the stars.
Originally I was actually studying Fashion Promotion and Imaging, as I wanted a course that touched on photography but wasn’t based solely on it.
During my free time over my first year, more and more of my focus moved towards music.
Myself and another coursemate compiled a list of all the small bands we liked who were playing in London, and one by one we contacted them for a photo pass, making use of our access to the equipment at UCA to build a portfolio.
Over that year, I became friends with some students on what was then the Music Journalism course, and attended the nights they put on.
Through going to those I began talking to their lecturers, who mentioned Music Marketing and Promotion, a new course that was about to start the following year.
It ticked all my boxes; it featured photography, but also focused on the music business surrounding it.
Since the start of high school, my focus was definitely on photography, but I didn't have a clear idea of which area to specialise in.
I went to the BRIT School for sixth form and became friends with a bunch of music students.
That pushed me towards portraiture, but I didn’t consider music photography as an option itself until I’d networked enough to see the work opportunities.
Back then, there wasn’t the large online music photography community that there is now.
After joining Music Marketing and Promotion, I spent three years balancing touring, festivals, shows and portraits with university commitments and deadlines.
I’ve had so many surreal experiences!
Seeing fanbases grow for artists you’ve worked with for years, and looking back at where you both started, is something really special that you get from this line of work.
You see the whole journey, ups and downs, the challenges and growth people go through.
When someone like that sells out a big show or does something they’ve always wanted to, you feel like part of it.
How you photograph someone changes with every job, obviously some people hate having their photo taken and you just adapt to that.
I always make sure that the person being photographed feels understood and respected.
There’s a line between getting a great personal shot and invading someone’s privacy.
You have to find where that line is and learn how they want to be perceived, then use your own creative eye to capture it.
Honestly, I don’t have set ambitions — just to keep growing as a creative, getting better as a photographer and finding more ways to have fun with work.
The absolute dream would be to shoot for Avril Lavigne: the icon.
Learn the rules before you break them!
See what Phoebe is up to by following her Instagram page, @shotbyphox .
Our *Music Marketing & Promotion course is becoming Music Business & Management in 2020.
Visit our course pages to find out more.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2020/swiss-composer-maries-cecile-reber-performs-uca:
17 February 2020
Swiss composer and musician Marie-Cécile Reber is the fifth guest composer of a series of live-streamed concerts performed at the University for the Creative Arts (UCA) Farnham.
Marie-Cécile works with field recording and electronic instruments to transform unusual and imperceptible sounds – mostly from nature – and the constantly changing pulsations of life/breath to transform them into pictorial soundscapes and audible sounds.
“I deeply believe that there is an individual beauty that can be discovered in the deep listening of sound,”– Marie-Cécile Reber.
At the heart of Reber’s performance lies the subtle blending of concrete noise and musical sounds, natural rhythms and composed ones, bringing her compositions back to a natural environment.
Marie-Cécile Reber
Marie-Cécile's performance will be the fifth concert in the here.here series, which is a collaboration between bookRoom – a virtual space within the School of Fine Arts and Photography at UCA – and the Audio Research Cluster – a cross-disciplinary research group at UCA Farnham, curated by Emmanuelle Waeckerlé and Harry Whalley.
The concert will consist of four pieces; Solo, little acoustic stories developed through listening to the world and collecting noises;  Breath, the soft sound of breathing unfolds and mixes with the wind; Floating Moment, a moment in time narrated through precise written description of sonic and visual events; and Approaches and Departure – Appearance and Disappearance, with each performer approaching or departing from a pitch of their choosing.
The other performers will include; Lecturer in Music at UCA Farnham, James E Armstrong (ukulele); Canadian sound artist, Gabrielle Hb (voice); Finnish artist and musician, Petri Huurinainen (acoustic guitar); Reader at UCA Farnham, Emmanuelle Waeckerlé (voice, objects); Senior lecturer on the BA/BSc (Hons) Music Composition & Technology course at UCA Farnham, Harry Whalley (Synths/Percussion); and experimental vocalist and composer, Yifeat Ziv (voice).
The concert will be followed by an Audio Research Cluster seminar with Professor of Music, John Pymm, who will uncover for us the lesser-known aspects and hidden complexities of Steve Reich’s work and take us on a journey around the context and music of Reich’s Buy Art, Buy Art
The concert will be performed in front of academic, technical staff and postgraduate and undergraduate students from UCA at 4pm on Monday 24 February, Cinema G14, UCA Farnham.
The next here.here concerts are taking place on:
To find out more about the Audio Research Cluster projects click here .
To find out more about the bookRoom projects, visit the website .
To learn more about studying Music at UCA, visit the course pages .

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/blogs/a-day-in-the-life-of-a-music-composition--technology-student:
No day as a Music Composition & Technology student is ever the same, there’s always something different and fun to do.
For example, one day I’ll be in a lecture looking at the philosophical aspects of music, and another day I’ll be at a film shoot working as a sound recordist.
10.00am
Most days will start off in the base room at around 10.00am, where I’m either doing independent work or having a lecture.
I will travel to UCA either by car or on foot, which only takes 15 minutes since I live near Farnham train station.
The more academic lectures cover the history of music technology, such as the creation of the synthesizer and the start of experimental music such as Avant Garde, as well as the philosophical and social aspects of music, looking at Plato and questions like, ‘Can we take the word popular out of popular music?’
Lectures generally last until 12:30pm, when we’ll go for lunch in the refectory or to one of the many cafés around Farnham (the best ones are in the Lion and Lamb Yard!) until the next part of the day.
After lunch a variety of things can happen — there could be another lecture, a tutorial, workshop, guest lecture, or that could be it for the day.
Some days when there’s a free afternoon a few of us may have a jam session, where students from all years and lecturers join in!
The afternoon lectures are usually either a bit more practical and/or look into music and surrounding industries such as game and film.
During the industry lectures we’ll learn how music is implemented into other creative art industries and the effect/impact it has, and then in the practical lectures we’ll put that knowledge into effect, using software such as Abelton Live, Pro Tools and Wwise to record, manipulate and implement music and sound into a film or game.
If there is any spare time in the afternoons, I will spend it in one of the mix rooms or our new recording studio where I focus on current work and other personal projects and collaborations.
My favourite part of the day is the evening, when we usually go to socialise at one of the many pubs in Farnham (my favourite is the Cobbett) or at the Students’ Union, where there’s a variety of events such as Rock Night, Big Saturday and DamnAwfulParties.
When I’m not out socialising, I enjoy working on different collaborations with other students.
At the moment I’m working with second year Games students, creating the sound and music for an AAA-style horror game.
I’m also collaborating with second year Film students, making the music for a short film about a bank heist gone wrong.
I have an ongoing project with a few members of staff at UCA called Sea of Cables, where we gather in different spaces such as the James Hockey Gallery and make ambient/experimental music by responding to what we each play.
In my spare time, I work at Waitrose as a sushi chef, as well as the Students’ Union where I control the sound and lighting at events.
This involves setting up equipment for live events such as microphones, instruments and DJ decks, as well as mixing live and controlling lighting for the dance floor which is a really great experience!

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/about-us/our-staff/andrew-pritchard:
Andrew Pritchard (he/him) originally trained as a professional actor at the London Academy of Music and Dramatic Art (LAMDA) before pursuing a career as a freelance writer, producer, director, and educator.
Andrew has over 15 years’ experience in the creative education sector.
Previous roles include Senior Lecturer Practitioner for the Cambridge School of Creative Industries at Anglia Ruskin University where he was also Artistic Director of the Mumford Theatre, Secondary and Further Education Programme Coordinator at the Royal National Theatre with projects including New Views and NT Connections, and International Operations Manager for the sub-Saharan creative arts charity Dramatic Need.
Other organisations he has worked with include the Coram Shakespeare Schools Foundation, Pleasance Theatre Trust, Qdos Entertainment and Ambassador Theatre Group (ATG).
His students have continued their training at drama schools including RADA, LAMDA, Guildhall School of Music and Drama, and the Royal Central School of Speech and Drama.
They have also appeared on stage at the National Theatre and Shakespeare’s Globe as well as on screen for the BBC and Netflix.
As a writer, producer, and director his work has featured at the Edinburgh Festival and received funding from Arts Council England.
Alongside his work for stage and screen he is also an experienced scriptwriter and motion capture performance director for video games.
He is a qualified Mental Health First Aider, Arts Award Adviser, and Makaton signer.
Other training includes the National Centre for Circus Arts and the British Academy of Stage and Screen Combat.
He has been on the advisory board for the Music & Drama Education Expo and is a non-executive director for PurpleDoor, Liverpool.
He is an External Examiner at MetFilm School, Bristol Old Vic Theatre School, and the Royal Central School of Speech and Drama, and has sat on revalidation panels for institutions including Mountview Academy of Theatre Arts.
If you have any questions about studying acting, music, or design at UCA, please email performingarts@uca.ac.uk .
For media enquiries, please contact our Press Office Team: pressoffice@uca.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/about-us/our-staff/annelies-lovell:
Annelies Lovell (she/her) is an experienced actor, lecturer, and theatre practitioner.
She trained at Mountview Academy of Theatre Arts and Guildford School of Acting (GSA).
She has an MA in Contemporary Performance Practices from Royal Holloway, University of London.
Annelies has worked extensively as an actor in theatre and on television.
Her theatre work includes UK and international tours including Europe, Japan, and Canada.
Her television work includes a regular role in Sky 1’s Dream Team , playing opposite Daniel Craig in Kiss and Tell for ITV, as well as numerous guest appearances on television dramas ( Casualty , Kavanagh QC ).
Annelies has worked in commercials and voiceovers (including an Oil of Olay campaign and voicing Rupert the Bear’s girlfriend).
She also spent several years working on The Bill as a television art director both at their south London studios and at numerous locations throughout the city.
Annelies has worked in education for over 10 years, she has a Postgraduate Certificate in Education and is an experienced theatre lecturer.
She worked on University of Surrey courses and with the University of Portsmouth before joining UCA as a Senior Lecturer on the BA (Hons) Acting course.
Annelies is currently leading units including 20 th & 21 st Century Theatre, Elizabethan & Jacobean Theatre, and Final Major Project: Practice as Research.
She is also a year lead for final year Acting students.
She is passionate about making relevant work that speaks to marginalised and underrepresented communities, and in training actors to perform Shakespeare that is accessible for all.
Her areas of expertise include social realism, verbatim theatre, and the work of Athol Fugard.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/about-us/our-staff/ruth-paton:
Ruth is a UCA lecturer in theatre design and has a 20-year career in production design for theatre and opera.
As a theatre designer, Ruth has made a body of work in response to music, mostly opera, which use painting and sculptural elements to underpin narrative.
Long-term collaborations include those with directors Tom Guthrie, Mark Down, Karen Gillingham, George Peck, Hazel Gould and Tim Yealland and for companies including The Royal Opera House, English National Opera, Garsington Opera, I Fagiolini, Longborough Opera Festival, Princeton University, Orchestra of the Age of Enlightenment and the Academy of Ancient Music.
She has designed puppets for Longborough Festival Opera, the Barbican and LSO St Lukes.
As an Artistic Associate at Blind Summit Theatre, Ruth has collaborated on productions for Bregenz Festival, Spoleto Festival and the Hollywood Bowl, LA.
Community engagement and education is a key part of Ruth’s practice.
Work as a creative educator and facilitator include projects for a wide range of clients include English National Opera, Garsington Opera and the Royal Opera House, where Ruth is Lead Artist for the Design Challenge Programme.
Practice-led research into worlding, puppetry and visual storytelling.
Ruth has developed R and D projects with Improbable, the Royal Shakespeare Company, The Royal National Theatre, Blind Summit, Central School of Speech and Drama and Princeton University.
Areas of interest include art for social change, the animism of models, puppets and props; the history of theatre design pedagogy and the altered use of familiar materials in installation/performance art.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/about-us/our-staff/james-wright:
James delivers sound recording, editing and mixing workshops across Film Production, Animation, Film & Digital Arts, and Music Composition & Technology.
In love with all things audio, James loves educating students about the world of sound for film, animation, games, music and fine art.
He delivers workshops and support on Pro Tools, Ableton Live, Adobe Audition and Wwise.
As a certified ACI, James teaches the Avid Pro Tools 101/110 course, which gives students the opportunity to earn official certification from Avid.
He is happiest when talking geeky about sound and music with staff and students, often with a cup of tea/coffee in his hand.
Alongside his role at UCA, James works as a sound editor/designer for short films, produces music under the alias Bananafish, and plays drums/electronics for improv group Sea Of Cables.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/about-us/our-staff/james-taylor-meme:
James studied BA (Hons) Film Production at the University for the Creative Arts Farnham between 2009-2012.
After graduating from university, James worked in the film industry as a Unit Stills Photographer whilst also producing feature length documentary films.
He also managed his own photography and graphic design business for a number of years, specialising in wedding photography and website design.
Having worked on the Acting and Performance course since its inception in 2015, James has applied his diverse skillset to designing stage lighting for student theatre shows, creating programmes and posters, capturing professional headshots and production stills and teaches students about filmmaking, website design and video editing.
Further information:

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2025/students-complete-residency-shakespeares-globe:
18 BA (Hons) Acting and MA Acting students from UCA’s Performing Arts programme recently completed a two-week residency at Shakespeare’s Globe in London, which culminated in a sharing of an abridged version of The Taming of the Shrew edited especially for the cast and performed in the candlelit Sam Wanamaker Playhouse at the Globe.
20 June 2025
As part of a study intensive focused on further developing their skills in performing Shakespeare, this bespoke course included acting workshops with Peter Hamilton Dyer, voice workshops with Salvatore Sorce, and movement workshops with Simone Coxall, as well as attending the Globe’s latest production of Romeo and Juliet .
The theatre, which is currently celebrating its 28 th anniversary, also hosted a Performance Practice Workshop for the students on the Globe’s main stage.
3 BA (Hons) Design for Theatre & Screen students have been involved in the project and are currently working on their set designs for Shakespearean productions at the venue.
Andrew Pritchard, Programme Director in Performing Arts, said: “This residency at Shakespeare’s Globe concludes our Cultural Home Project, which also included several events with the British Film Institute and the National Theatre.
It has been a transformative experience for everyone involved and we look forward to passing their learning on to current and future students at UCA.”
One of the participating Acting students said: “(This) has been so helpful in bringing together a fantastic company and letting us realise where we can go next… It has boosted my desire to learn even further, and I know what I need to work on as I progress in the professional world.”
For some of the actors who performed in The Taming of the Shrew at the Globe, this follows another recent performance at the National Theatre for their industry showcase, providing them with a unique opportunity to perform at both cultural institutions on Southbank and Bankside within a month of each other.
Coming soon, UCA’s Performing Arts programme, who have formed their first in-house Graduate Company, will be performing X by Alistair McDowall at the Camden Fringe this August.
To learn more about studying Performing Arts, visit the UCA’s course pages.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2025/students-herds-global-public-art-climate-action:
A zebra, monkey and gazelle made by first-year design for theatre and screen students from University for the Creative Arts (UCA) will become part of a global public art and climate action project, The Herds, travelling to London this June.
19 June 2025
This event, unprecedented in scale, is an international puppet project with life-size puppet animals travelling a 20,000km route from the Congo Basin to the Arctic Circle, symbolising their flight from climate disaster.
Five students on UCA’s BA (Hons) Design for Theatre & Screen course will be part of the week-long training and performance programme alongside 95 other volunteer puppeteers, culminating in massive public arts events across Greater London.
As an official partner of The Herds, alongside the likes of Arts Council England, RSC, Somerset House, WWF and Youth4Nature, Ruth Paton, Senior Lecturer Design for Theatre & Screen, said:
“The students have been able to build and refine their construction skills in our workshops, following complex build instructions for each puppet, and working with intricate laser-cut pieces to build the animal bodies, mechanisms and moving parts.
Working in small collaborative groups, problem solving as a team took centre stage.”
Mia Credidio , who worked on creating the Zebra puppet, added: “Making this puppet go from a flat pack with instructions to a fully functional moving puppet that looks so realistic and soulful when puppeteered, is an amazing opportunity.
“I’m excited to perform as part of the herd and help put on an amazing performance and get across the message of The Herds – to renew our bond with the natural world and call for climate action.
“I hope that audiences around the world feel a deep sense of connection to the herd, and leap into #climateaction.”
Produced by The Walk Productions, The Herds will run until August of this year with events taking place in London from Friday 27 to Sunday 29 June.
For more information visit, The Herds or follow @the_herds on Instagram
Or follow @miacredidio

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/blogs/its-curtain-up-for-uca-performing-arts-showcases-:
The closing weeks of study for final-year students are always buzzing with activity – but for UCA’s performing arts students, it was exceptionally special.
From showcases, demonstrations, shows and more, there’s a lot to catch up on!
05 September 2024
Students from BA (Hons) Acting & Performance, MA Screen Acting & Performance, BA (Hons) Design for Theatre & Screen and BA/BSc (Hons) Music Composition & Technology trod the boards in London’s West End – at the Bloomsbury Theatre and Studio – for the inaugural Performing Arts Graduate Showcase.
In all, 37 actors took to the stage to present 19 duologues from contemporary theatre and screen in front of a large audience of friends, family, and industry guests – leading to paid film work later this year for three students, Eugénie Biron, Ellie Mills, and Zoe Sines.
Eugénie said she would be working on a short film project.
“We are likely to start the project in the New Year as the director is also writing a book at the moment, but it's really exciting!”
While the acting students were showcasing their skills, Design for Theatre and Screen and music students presented their inspirational work in the Bloomsbury Studio.
Four Design for Theatre and Screen students had a second chance to show off their work to leading industry names at the New Blades modelmaking exhibition in London.
Jinju Han, Emilia Looberger, Linde Rijkes, and Tegan Turner represented UCA, exhibiting alongside six other creative universities.
Back at UCA, the cohort were showcasing their work across the Farnham campus – together with final major projects, applicants for the new UCA Graduate Company presented scenes from Frantic Assembly’s Things I Know To Be True as part of the audition process.
There were also productions of two plays - Roberto Zucco and Let the Right One In – at Farnham Maltings.
Programme Director Andrew Pritchard said: “As ever, with all our Performing Arts students, the standard of work was of an exceptional standard – I can’t wait to see what they all do next.”
Visit our main website to find out more about our Performing Arts courses .

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/blogs/acting-alum-gabin-takes-on-the-globe:
Since graduating from UCA with a degree in Acting and Performance in 2019, Gabin Kongolo has not rested on his laurels.
From writing and performing poetry to appearing on UK stages and television screens, he’s been – to coin a phrase – booked and busy.
30 August 2024
Above, Gabin Kongolo on the right performing in Antony & Cleopatra.
Credit: Shakespeare's Globe
Currently he’s treading the boards at Shakespeare’s Globe as Pompey and Decretas in a unique portrayal of Antony & Cleopatra, which includes British Sign Language (BSL) for the first time.
We caught up with Gabin midway through his Globe run, to find out more about this unique show, about his time at UCA and what’s next.
In your stage work, you’ve done a lot of Shakespeare so far, how does it feel to be performing his work at the Globe?
“It’s so funny because I used to hate Shakespeare.
Some of my tutors can probably back this evidence up.
So going from that to now loving his work and performing it at his home feels like a full-circle journey.
Being on that stage is a real blessing, but also a testament of the hard work that’s happened.
Shakespeare’s text at first is quite complex, but once you do the work, get underneath the text and understand the words, the freedom you have is endless.
Once you pass that barrier, I feel there’s no difference between modern theatre, which is just as enjoyable.”
Your current role is in an innovative new version of Antony & Cleopatra, including BSL – have you had to learn that as part of your own performance and if so, how do you think it has added to your acting?
“Unfortunately, my character doesn’t sign a lot in the show, but I am still actively learning BSL to communicate with my fellow cast and company.
However, watching my fellow cast members who can fluently sign and seeing how expressive they are is incredible.
I’ve learned so much from them and the techniques they use to tell stories.
I’ll definitely use this in my practice moving forward.
Even away from my cast, learning BSL has been such a great skill to have.
I guess my advice is never downplay your skills and what you can do.”
What would you say were the differences (good and bad!) between performing a Shakespeare play and performing something more modern?
“The thing about Shakespeare that people tend to think, is that it has to be classical and it’s not made for the modern world.
But you can make Shakespeare modern, which I think this version of Antony & Cleopatra does so well.
There’s a reason why his work is done all over the world, year after year.”
Outside of theatre, you’ve also done a lot of poetry work – do you have anything coming up in that area?
“Well, I’m working on a poetry project with one of the Top 6 football clubs in the Premier League.
I can’t talk too much on that right now but it’s very exciting.
I’ve also got a poetry book coming out in 2025.
It’s all happening!”
And your biography on the Globe website also says you’re featuring in Mr Loverman, the television adaptation of Bernadine Evaristo’s novel – is there anything you can tell us about that experience?
“Mr Loverman was a beautiful experience.
I play Young Morris that is a younger version of the lead and I’m a series regular in that.
It’s a special TV series that’ll turn heads for sure.
Working with legends such as Lennie James, Sharon D Clarke and Ariyon Bakare was a treat and good learning experience.”
So, what skills from UCA did you keep, skills you still use today?
“So many.
But the biggest ones I would say are the warm-ups (physical / vocal) and also text techniques and figuring out the clues in the text that can help you build your character.
These are my day-to-day things that will never leave me and are embedded in my practice.”
What were the highlights of your time at UCA?
“I grew a lot during my time at UCA, I learned a lot about life and gained so much life experience, which is so important as a performer.
All these things you experience during these three years are all tools and references to creating a character / performance.
I also think the friends I made are people I’d say are friends for life and I’ll always be grateful that UCA was the place where I met them.”
With those things in mind what top tips or advice would you give to current acting students?
“Be yourself.
The industry needs your voice and your story.
Never try to be the ‘the next’ person you look up to - be ‘the first’ because you are you and no one can replicate that.
I’d also say watch TV / Film / Theatre.
See how you get inspired by performances and productions.
It may help you visualise the career you want and set for yourself.”
You can still see Gabin at Shakespeare’s Globe, with Anthony & Cleopatra running until September 15, and you can find out more about Gabin’s work on his Instagram page .
Or if you want to follow in Gabin’s footsteps, you can check out our BA (Hons) Acting page .

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/blogs/ucas-aspiring-actors-learn-from-theatres-leading-lights:
Acting and Performance students have had the opportunity to learn from three of the country’s leading theatre companies – Talawa, Improbable, Complicité – as part of their second year module covering equality, inclusivity, and diversity, and giving them a grounding in how they can play a role in their future careers to improve fairness for all.
20 December 2023
Above, students performing a short movement piece at the end of the Complicité workshop.
Representatives from Talawa, a leading proponent of Black British theatre, Complicité, a touring theatre company whose work is built on human connection, and Improbable, whose working process is underpinned by improvisation, all held workshops at UCA Farnham to help each student become a “conscious practitioner”.
Each of the workshops focused on a different area of personal development, providing food for thought and effective tools to take forward both in study and career.
Talawa workshop For this workshop, students took part in warm-up exercises before taking part in a discussion about unconscious biases.
Without judgement and in a confidential space, they could speak freely about personal experiences.
The students came out of the experience with fresh perspectives.
“I learned a lot about things that I wouldn’t usually think about, and made myself aware of things most people don’t have to worry themselves with,” said Ben Greenstreet.
“Subjects were brought up that hadn’t even crossed my mind.”
Rebecca Reeves added: “I’m going to go home and write up everything so I can take it forward with me.
For me it was a lot of self-reflection and learning to be more patient and understanding.”
Abigail Maria Sol, director,  dramatherapist and founder and CEO of Deya, ran the workshop.
She said: “It's great that there's an increasing focus within the sector, not just  on our creative outputs, but also our processes.
UCA's integration of the Conscious Practitioner module speaks directly to this, ensuring their students are primed to consider how to create inclusive environments and how they would like people to experience working with them.
It was a pleasure to meet the cohort and plant seeds that will sprout in their vibrant future careers.”
Improbable workshop A week later, students took a different approach with Improbable co-artistic director Lee Simpson, who introduced the model of “Open Space Technology”, which teaches students to follow impulses, and trust that this leads to the best work.
Open Space Technology was created in the 1980s by Harrison Owen, a civil rights campaigner and Episcopal priest.
Its central tenets are:
Lee said: “Today was really nice, the students were very warm and giving with their time and talent.”
More than anything, the workshop appeared to build confidence.
Millie Vince said: “I loved Improbable’s attitude and perspective – that we should bring the best version of ourselves.
“As someone who struggles with their mobility, through Improbable’s ethos, whether it’s a good day or a bad day, then it’s OK, that I am the right person they (casting companies) want to see.”
Harroon Azam added: “Modern acting companies – they care so much, and make you feel like you’re enough.
This workshop was all about these modern philosophies – that they’ll work with you, rather than around you.
They’ll take you as a whole and welcome you as you are.”
Complicit é workshop For the final workshop, students were encouraged by workshop leader Jo Daxter to work individually and as a team to create quick-fire performance pieces that told a clear story.
Using the acting tool of the “seven tensions”, the students learned about how body language and the correct tensions can change the way a line or monologue could be consumed by the audience.
Sara Casanova said: “We were on our feet the whole time, so it was very physical, and vocal, too.
We were able to put everything we’ve been discussing and learning from our previous workshops into this one and came into it with confidence and a sense of free will.
“Overall, these three sessions taught so much but for me, the biggest takeaway was learning to remain yourself throughout, connecting you the person with you the actor, and keeping a part of yourself present in any performance.”
Andrew Pritchard, Programme Director for BA (Hons) Acting & Performance, said: “We are thankful to Complicité, Talawa, Improbable and their associates for visiting and working with our Year 2 students, as part of our commitment to providing our students with a diverse range of opportunities to learn from industry professionals.”
If you’re interested in UCA’s range of performing arts courses, visit our course pages .

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/blogs/venice-premiere-for-acting-starlet-grace:
Just four years after graduating from UCA’s Acting & Performance degree, Grace Palma has made her feature film debut – starring in Luc Besson’s DogMan.
18 October 2023
Grace Palma recently had an experience acting students dream of, as she and her fellow castmates walked the red carpet at the Venice Film Festival for the world premiere of indie movie DogMan, which was nominated for the Golden Lion award.
In it, the UCA Acting & Performance graduate plays the extravagant Salma, a teacher and aspiring actress who the lead character, Douglas (played by Caleb Landry-Jones), recalls in a series of memories.
“It was a blessing to work with Luc,” says Grace.
“We had full rehearsals, which aren’t common, and so we were able to different explore ways of approaching the scene on set.
I was given the space to discover Salma, and it was very collaborative.
“Caleb’s character, Douglas, is very inspired by Salma, and has her on a pedestal.
She’s very flamboyant and extra, and so it was really fun to uncover that part of me through her.”
When Grace saw the role advertised on a Spotlight casting call, she sent in an audition tape and attempted to forget about it.
“I tried not to think too much about it,” she said.
“It was enough to know Luc was going to see my work!
Then my agent called saying he [Luc] was interested, so I had a meeting with him via video call, where we talked more about the character and my interpretation of her.
In all, it was about two months between sending in the audition tape and accepting the part.”
Grace filmed her scenes in Paris and Normandy across the first half of 2022.
“I’ve grown up watching Luc’s films, so just to be involved in this project was so exciting,” she said.
“Then to get to go to Venice was just really entertaining!
It was exciting and fun to get to watch something that I took part in making.”
Grace said of her time at UCA: “I was very much like, ‘I’m here to learn’.
The course felt unique to me, getting to learn the different techniques for stage and screen, and then to have the opportunity to work with the film students and be on an actual set.
You could experiment and explore without any of the pressure.
I could push boundaries and make mistakes.
“And on top of that, it’s just a really sweet and safe place.
UCA is so small, and calm, I had no distractions.”
Her advice to current and future acting students is to enjoy every moment and absorb as much as possible.
“Really use the time: it goes by in a flash," she says.
"Enjoy it, let loose, try out ideas.”
Grace has most recently filmed a short film, again in France, but her next project is very different - albeit  connected to her studies at UCA.
Having learned yoga as part of her course, she developed a passion for the practice, and is planning a month-long retreat to Indonesia to gain her yoga instructor qualifications.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2024/empowering-women-non-binary-photographers:
An inspiring training and mentorship program for marginalised women and non-binary people will tackle the lack of opportunities for emerging female and non-binary photographers in the creative industries.
07 March 2024
Putting Ourselves In The Picture, is a collaborative project led by the University for the Creative Art's (UCA) Fast Forward: Women in Photography research project, partnered with five pioneering organisations: Women for Refugee Women and Autograph in London, Impressions Gallery in Bradford, National Galleries of Scotland in Edinburgh and Work Show Grow.
It is driven by the knowledge that opportunities in photography for marginalized women and non-binary photographers are few and far between and there is an increased need for change in the photography industry.
Part 2 of the project, Engaging with Industry, which commences this May, will work with Fast Forward’s partners to develop the project with communities of marginalized women and non-binary people, enhancing well-being in society.
The project will focus on developing relationships with the photography industries that could offer work experiences, such as day long field visits, workshops, talks with industry partners, and mentorships, giving participants new skills, professional knowledge, and invaluable networking skills.
Through these experiences and opportunities Fast Forward aims to further change the rhetoric around gender bias in the photography industry with reference to the future employment of all women and non-binary photographers.
To learn more about the project, visit the Fast Forward website .

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2024/winning-image-displayed-london-billboard:
A poignant photograph that explores MFA student Olivia Cooper’s identity as a mixed-race individual, has won her an outstanding contribution prize and has been broadcast six meters high on a billboard overlooking Old Street in London.
21 February 2024
Studying photography at the University for the Creative Arts (UCA) in Farnham, Olivia responded to an open call, which was part of the 35 th Anniversary celebrations of Autograph, an art gallery in London and champion of inclusivity, to tackle their theme, Becoming Visible.
Her winning image, I Am My Mother, was chosen from over 1,000 submissions by artist and judge Hélène Amouzou and comes from Olivia’s current MFA project exploring her multi-cultural heritage as a Western-British raised woman of Asian heritage.
The image features her mother wearing a sari to showcase her Indian identity, and placed within a constructed environment.
“It was powerful to see her [Olivia’s mother] involved in my search for identity and belonging,” said Olivia.
“The making of this image enabled a reclamation of personal space and place.
I hope it will resonate with audiences and they’ll be able to take away a sense of raw and personal representation along with an understanding of all the complexities involved in mixed-race identity.”
Coming from the BA (Hons) Photography course at UCA, Olivia decided to take on the two-year MFA course rather than go straight into the industry so she could develop her professional practice and learn more about the industry.
“It was a good move for me,” explained Olivia.
“I have developed and improved since doing the MFA.
As well as being pushed and challenged, the course feels like working in the industry, talking about your work, testing new ideas, learning about professional practice, all facets of what it will entail working as a photographer.”
As for prospective students looking to embark upon their photography careers, Olivia advises them to “experiment and have fun with the medium as much as possible.
Test out different ways to use photography because you never know which one you might gel with.”
View Olivia’s winning image in Autograph’s Online Gallery .
Or look out for I Am My Mother , on the six-meter high digital canvas at Old Street Roundabout from now until 3 March, EC1V 1JB.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/blogs/through-the-eyes-of-a-fashion-photography-student:
This week we catch up with international student Cecilia Dibenedetto, from Italy, who is studying BA (Hons) Fashion Photography.
26 July 2022
Above, a photograph on campus by Cecilia Dibenedetto.
Hi Cecilia, what made you choose your course, and UCA?
“I chose to study Fashion Photography because I have been attracted to Photography since I was a kid.
Over time, I had the opportunity to learn various photography styles.
I chose to deep my background as a photographer in fashion because, with this course, I can indulge my creativity by combining all the styles of photography from landscape to still life, portraiture, architecture, documentary and so on.
However, another reason I chose this course is the ambition of undertaking a career in fashion communication using my creative contribution.
Cecilia Dibenedetto
“I have to admit, the choice for the university was difficult, because England has a good reputation in terms of the best art academies in the world.
Although, what made me choose UCA goes beyond reputation.
UCA stands out for its friendly and supportive campus environments.
This university allowed everyone to develop skills valuing freedom of expression and experimentation; providing solid academic programs directed by professional tutors, offering the opportunity to use different equipment.”
What is a typical day like on campus?
"Every day on the campus is different.
Everyone has a different routine.
I wake up before everyone else in my halls because I work as babysitter before my classes start at 10 am.
After that, we got 1 hour of lunch break, and then we came back to class for the second session of the lesson.
Once the day is over, Everyone comes back to the hall/home to study, set aside time for hobbies, or go to the gym.
We meet in the kitchen to have dinner and chat at the end of the day.I believe weekends are the most anticipated by students.
Everyone makes arrangements for different activities such as parties or trips out of town.
Although I need money to pay the rent, I make my weekend exciting by working in a London techno club."
“Many people think all Italians are good at cooking.
I’m terrible at it!
When I’m at home, the recipe I like best is chicken curry rice which is nice and easy to handle.
The beauty of living in halls is being with students from different parts of the world.
However, I feel lucky because my Chinese flatmates always offer to share a portion of noodles during their dinner, despite knowing my kitchen difficulties!”
"One of my favourite memories was when I got the news I would become an official student at UCA.
I remember I was in my room, and I started crying on the phone with one of the administrators while he told me the official status of my application.
I was very excited because I finally realised one of my many dreams of studying in England after trying for three years."
What piece of work are you most proud of so far, and why?
"The main idea of our Environmental Project was to document the African culture and their lifestyle by making images that portray a positive perspective.
For this project, the quickest way to find models was to stop people on the street and ask friends if they were interested in being involved.
It was an excellent experience for me from an artistic and social point of view."
What is the biggest lesson you have learned at UCA so far?
"Until today, one of the most important lessons I have learned as a UCA student is that commitment always brings good results.
Don't ever get down on yourself.
Come on and stand up stronger than ever.
The world is full of opportunities."
A picture taken by Cecilia
What are your post-uni career plans and have they changed since you started your studies?
"I always had a rough idea of my career plans post-uni.
As soon as I have a degree, I would like to stay in the UK for at least five years and gain experience working as a Fashion Photographer to advertise a brand or a company.
At the same time, I would like to find freelance job opportunities worldwide.
Once I obtain economic stability, I will buy a house and focus on my personal life and family."
How do you recommend future students choose the right course and university for them?
"I recommend future students choose the right course and university based on their interests and their ambitions, focusing constantly on the way to reach their goals."
If you want to find out more about studying BA (Hons) Fashion Photography, visit our course pages .

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/blogs/jodies-hijab-journey-captivates-vogue-editors:
UCA graduate Jodie Bateman is turning heads with photography documenting her own journey converting to Islam, and the response to her new appearance.
24 September 2021
Jodie, who has just completed her two-year MFA Photography degree, has seen her striking portraits of herself and her sister, Hannah, in their hijabs, showcased in the Photo Vogue Festival 2021 “Reframing History” and also in the latest issue of Photoworks.
The project is called “My Hijab Has A Voice: Revisited” and seeks to explore the experience of Muslim women within the religion, and within society as a whole.
“It started from my last year in the BA photography course at UCA,” she says.
“I had just converted to Islam, and started to wear my hijab.
I always knew there was a negative stigma around the hijab in the media anyway, but I started to come across material that had absolute hate for Islam, saying terrible things about Muslim women and the hijab."
It's a powerful feeling to be a woman in the West who is not being constantly judged for how I look, which is what this society so often does to us."
“I became very angry and hurt, as I was falling in love with my religion, and that’s how everything came together.
I was determined to show a different narrative that people may not have had access to.
Starting my MFA, I knew the project wasn’t finished, so I revisited the theme and continued until it had blossomed to what it is today.
“I mostly hoped it would start new conversations and just give people the opportunity to have an insight into a convert’s personal journey to putting on the hijab, rather than just seeing it as a symbol of oppression in the West.
I hope people can see a different side to Islam and the hijab; a more positive one.”
Discussing her personal journey and decision to wear the hijab, Jodie highlights some of the aspects she finds  empowering, which are often overlooked by outside commenters.
"The thing I love the most about wearing hijab and abaya is that don't feel insecure anymore," says Jodie.
"Now, I feel very comfortable walking in public.
I love myself and my body a lot more, and feel proud that people can visibly see I am a Muslim woman.
I no longer get harassed by men, so I feel safer.
I am much more happy and confident in myself now that I don't have the pressure of trying to fit in, or for my body to look a certain way - for example, I now choose not to wear make-up either.
"But despite this, Western society continuously feeds the stereotype of oppression.
Often Muslim women are only seen to wear black and are portrayed as ‘old fashioned’ or ‘backwards’ due to their choice to cover their bodies."
In response, her photo series challenges society to see Muslim women differently by inviting them into a Muslim woman’s private space, with the intention to ‘humanize’ her experience.
Jodie's pictures take inspiration from historical paintings that are famous for their objectification of women, subverting them through a series of alterations.
She poses herself and her models to mimic the mannerisms and gestures of the paintings, but has the subjects fully clothed and looking directly back at the viewer, confronting the audience and the outdated social stereotypes.
The wire you see towards snaking towards the front of the shot is another intentional choice, showing that she’s in control of the shot.
“Having the wire visible makes it known that I am the photographer – a Muslim, a woman and in control of the way the viewer will be seeing me.
That was important, after researching the female gaze – taking back that control as a woman,” she said.
So how did it feel to see her work featured in Reframing History, as one of 35 photographers picked from more than 2,500 around the world?
“It is such an incredible feeling.
I was lost for words when I got the recognition,” she said.
“It’s such a hard field to get into, with such great artists out there, so it’s really reassuring when you start to get the attention from these high-profile places.
especially after receiving so many rejections.”
Jodie is about to become a UCA artist-in-residence and is focused on building her portfolio further and continuing her progress.
“I really enjoyed working with my teachers: Anna Fox, Karen Knorr and Elizabeth Ransom.
They are great, supportive women.
I loved the whole journey with them.
It really helped me develop myself and my work as an artist; they have great knowledge and I will take that away with me,” she says.
“I don’t think there is a medium more powerful than photography.
I believe it can affect change by giving people voices who aren’t usually heard.
It allows people to share their own stories in their own way, with no filter or rules, just by being able to put something into the world where people can see it and read more into the meaning.”
You can see Jodie’s work – and the work of our 2021 MA and MFA photography graduates, on our Online Graduation Show .
And if photography interests you, visit our course pages .

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/blogs/roots-a-personal-exploration-of-race-by-photographer-sonny-:
09 September 2021
Sonny had an open brief for his final project and decided to create both still and moving imagery inspired by the conversation which arose following the murder of Mr Floyd in May 2020.
“Although this was a fashion photography degree, I knew that I wanted my final project to discuss an important social issue.
When George Floyd was murdered back in May 2020, I was deeply upset by the incident and went to various Black Lives Matter protests.
I felt driven to discuss the issue of race through my photography in a way that was unique and thought-provoking.”
Part of Sonny’s work included a film called Roots, which was based around the trauma of Afro-Caribbean people who were kidnapped and transported to Britain in the 18 th century.
“I took on the character of Olaudah Equiano, a Nigerian who was taken from his motherland and enslaved in Kent,” he said.
“My aim was to allow the audience to discuss an uncomfortable but important subject and to inform and educate people on the massive suffering my ancestors went through.
The message I wanted to convey is that although Afro-Caribbean people are not physically enslaved anymore, mentally people still feel shackled and chained."
Sonny’s original idea was to cast multiple performers, but with Covid-19 restrictions still in place, he had to adapt his approach and instead decided to self-shoot and direct both his film and images as a self-portrait.
His passion for poetry and creative writing also came into play via an original spoken word script, and visuals were shot to produce a historical ambience.
“It really made me understand the importance of researching my topic thoroughly,” he added.
“I also learned how crucial it is to do multiple test shoots."
Sonny Barthley
Previous to joining UCA, Sonny spent a couple of years collaborating on fashion shoots, and subsequently fell in love with the discipline.
“UCA seemed like the ideal place to study fashion photography and I felt comfortable that I’d succeed on this course,” he said.
“Since finishing my final project, I’ve done some personal shoots, and had a short rest but now I’m raring to go, and keen to create some exciting work.
I’m currently building Va Va Voom Magazine, which is my own title and I’m just about to start an MA in Creative Direction for Fashion at UCA too."
“I love how both photography and film allow you to express yourself with no restrictions or boundaries.
Photography will always be my first love and it’s quite an obsession, whereas film has been a recent addition to my practice.
I’m proud of the fact that I executed this project as self-directed work, and I can confidently say I achieved more than I could’ve imagined at the beginning.”

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/facilities-resources/fashion-photography-it-suites:
The fashion photography IT facilities are equipped with industry-standard technology.
This includes high-performance computers with advanced photo editing software and professional-grade monitors, providing an optimal environment for producing, editing, and managing high-quality fashion imagery.
Open to local designers and artists, as well as students and academics from across the university – this is a creative space where you’ll be encouraged to develop your ideas.
Room: 39
This room contains 25 iMacs.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/facilities-resources/photography-sound-studios:
The Photography & Sound Studios at UCA Canterbury provide an ideal environment for capturing and producing top-quality visual and auditory content.
Designed to support a variety of media production needs, from capturing stunning imagery to producing high-quality audio recordings.
The facilities include fully equipped photography studios, soundproof voice booths, and advanced sound studios.
Here, photographers and sound engineers can work side-by-side, experimenting with new techniques and pushing the boundaries of their crafts.
This collaborative space is perfect for developing innovative projects that blend visual and auditory elements.
Room: CO.19
Room: CO.19A
Room: DO.17
This room contains a small sound mixing desk and equipment.
Room: DO.03
This room contains three colour enlargers.
Room: DO.16
This room contains high-end processing computers and a changing space.
Room: DO.18

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/facilities-resources/print-and-fabrication-studio:
At UCA Canterbury, the specialist Print and Fabrication Studio is equipped with state-of-the-art tools and resources, providing artists and designers with the means to bring their visions to life.
From traditional printmaking techniques to advanced digital fabrication, the studio supports a wide range of creative processes.
Whether you’re working with paper, textiles, or three-dimensional materials, creators are encouraged to explore and innovate in an environment that fosters experimentation and collaboration.
Room: DO.05A

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/blogs/see-life-as-a-deaf-person---through-isabellas-lens:
Many of our final-year students use their graduation projects to showcase their skills by documenting highly personal stories.
This year’s Grad Show entries were no exception – take BA (Hons) Photography student Isabella Giddins, who used her camera to speak to her audience about her Deafness.
We caught up with her, to find out more.
02 July 2024
Hi Isabella!
What made you want to become a photographer, and then choose UCA to study?
I started a photography course in my GCSE year, at my previous deaf secondary school, Mary Hare.
I chose to be a photographer since I was interested in taking pictures of the world around me, and I thought it would be easier for me, since I have struggled with English.
Photography has been my passion for a long time, and my escape to be in the world where I belong as a deaf person.
Photography enables me to express my feelings and create memories.
What was the most surprising part of the course?
What did you learn that you maybe weren't expecting?
I have thoroughly enjoyed studying photography at UCA, although I had not expected to hold an exhibition, midway through the course.
However, this experience helped me learn to communicate with the public and, because of it, my anxiety and shyness have decreased.
I now feel much more confident and a valued member of the team with new photography friends, and I have also made new connections, to enhance my work opportunities in the future.
With your final major project, what made you explore such a personal topic?
Did that help the creative process or create issues?
I wanted to explore the world of Deafness, what it is like to be in the middle of two worlds, and how it feels to be merged into one.
Deafness is a complex disability, and it is difficult to explain how people with different types of hearing loss and hearing aids, hear sounds.
Online information cannot capture this.
Even though sound differs for everyone, I wanted to convey the reality.
As a deaf photographer, my ideas flowed easily into artistic expression, and I used videos to illustrate and educate people about the relationship between sound and deafness by using deaf models.
At this point, though, I realised that a key photographic element was missing, and it was not until I researched further, at City Lit, that I was able to develop my thoughts about the social and political history of deafness.
From this point, my print was developed.
The circle in ‘Deaf Power’ represents a deaf community’s power to acquire inclusive and equal rights.
The photograph sends a political message, bringing shadows of discrimination into the light with a colourful message of hope and peace.
Have your family seen the final project?
What did they think?
My parents saw the old video of my work in progress, displayed at City Lit.
Afterwards, I don’t think they saw the final video, but they did see the ‘Deaf Power’ circle print from the video and pictures I sent them.
Since they are coming to the graduation show, it will be their first time that they will see it in person.
I am pretty sure they are very proud of me and the whole process, from start to finish, as I think they really like my work and are happy for me.
What are your career ambitions after graduation?
What's the ideal job?
I would love to be a fashion photographer with disabled models; this would be my dream.
However, if I am unable to achieve this, I would try to find work in a different area of photography, so that I can boost my skills and continue to improve, as I move through my photography career.
At the moment, I am in the process of searching for a job in the photography industry.
How has your experience been at UCA as a deaf student?
What advice would you have for anyone with hearing loss who is considering coming to UCA?
The past three years at university have been a journey of ups and downs, but it has mainly been fun and a great experience.
It felt like I was in a different world, where I could be myself as a deaf person, able to explore my creativity.
It was hard at first but, eventually, over time, I became independent, learned my course subject, and did not give up.
I was determined to keep going.
My advice to a student with hearing loss, who might be considering a course with UCA, would be to try to get as much support as possible, and to take your time.
Even though there will be challenges, the staff and your new friends can help you gain confidence to be yourself.
If you find it hard to ask for help, try not to be shy and hide away.
There will be people at UCA who will try their best to help you achieve good grades, which will give you opportunities for your future.
You can see Isabella's project in our online Grad Show .
Find out more about the support UCA offers to students with disabilities or learning differences , or our BA (Hons) Photography degree.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2024/npg-collab-sees-student-photos-go-on-display:
Portraits by second-year BA (Hons) Photography students from the University for the Creative Arts (UCA) are being exhibited at the National Portrait Gallery as part of a new photography display – Photo Portrait Now – on show between now and 8 September 2024.
20 May 2024
Challenging concepts of place, community, relationships and belonging, the exhibited portraits delve into life in Britain today, taking inspiration from portraits exhibited in this year’s Taylor Wessing Photo Portrait Prize – the g allery’s annual photography competition.
The UCA portraits will all be digitally shown in the exhibition, while a portrait by one of the students, Michael Togher-Prescott, was selected to be highlighted and has been printed for display.
In a Q&A panel event at the launch of the exhibition, Michael said:
“When I shot this [portrait] it was a spur-of-the-moment kind of thing.
I often have a roll of film in the camera until I see something I like or see little moments that resonate.
“This portrait was taken quite late, just before going to bed, it was a quiet moment, and it felt very intimate.
It is not very complicated or heavily researched, but for me, there is no one I’d want to portray more.”
Clare Freestone, Curator of Photography at the National Portrait Gallery , said: “It’s been a pleasure to work so closely with staff and students from UCA as part of Photo Portrait Now, and I’ve been incredibly impressed by the professionalism shown by all of the participating students over the year.
“Inspiring the next generation of world-class photographers, Photo Portrait Now has provided opportunities for talented groups of young people to exhibit at the National Portrait Gallery, network and connect with industry leaders, supporting their pursuit of creative careers.”
The display is the culmination of a year-long higher education partnership programme that has brought together gallery curators, leading contemporary photographers and second-year photography students from five universities across England and Wales (Arts University Bournemouth, London South Bank University, University of the Creative Arts, University of Plymouth and the University of South Wales ) to foster new creative talent in the genre.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/blogs/how-it-was-done-marilyns-stunning-photograph:
MFA Photography student Marilyn Taylor is the inaugural overall winner of the London Camera Exchange (LCE) Photographer of the Year 2024 awards, thanks to her stunning image of a bat approaching a banana flower, which she took on a visit to Costa Rica.
As she approaches graduation, we caught up with her to discover the story behind the photograph.
19 April 2024
Hi Marilyn, many congratulations on your win!
Can you talk us through the planning behind your photo?
“I’d seen a talk about Costa Rica, and thought it was a magic place to go, with hummingbirds and lots of frogs.
I found a lovely American professional who runs such a trip twice a year – we were a group of ten.
We saw the bats on one of the early outings.
What were the challenges involved in capturing the picture – how long did it take, and how many pictures do you think you took to get the final shot?
“We were at this farm about two hours; we got there just before sunset.
It is in the middle of nowhere and was really dark – we had to set up the cameras using manual focus, and all manual settings.
Everyone’s camera was different, and I think we all wasted several shots getting the exposure right.
We took it in turns to shoot.
We couldn’t use any light, other than the flash when we pressed the shutter - the bats were like little ghosts!
I’ve got a few shots where there were two bats, coming and/or going, and in all I took about 75 photos, several of which were to test the lighting and settings.
I think I came away with about 30 that were reasonable.
“I may not get the chance to do it again: it was a bit expensive.
But I’m going to Canada in June with the same professional guide to photograph hummingbirds, so watch this space!”
You can see all the winners at the LCE Photographer of the Year winner’s gallery .
So, how did it feel to be named the overall winner of the competition?
“I had hoped to do well in the wildlife category (there were 14 categories altogether) because I know it was what they call ‘a keeper’; unusual subject and a good clean uncluttered image.
“I had been invited to the LCE presentation at the NEC Photography & Video Show as they said I was shortlisted.
I was quite relaxed and happy after I won the wildlife – but I was absolutely gobsmacked when mine was one of the three finalists shown on the screen for the overall winner.
I’m not sure whether my heart had stopped or was racing, and the screen was blank for quite some time before my photo came up – the tension was crazy!
“I have been lucky to win some important photographic competitions in the past, but this was amazing.
Usually, you get sent an email saying, ‘congratulations’, but to be present when they actually announced it was on another level.”
How would you describe your photography style?
What do you hope audiences take from your work?
“I have been an event photographer in the past – mostly English Civil War re-enactments and other historical periods.
I’ve always liked photographing people and action, but I’ve had this opportunity to go on some local and international wildlife and birding trips in the last few years.”
Given your wildlife win, what is next for you?
Are you taking part in any new competitions or exhibitions?
“I routinely enter lots of competitions at my camera club, for the Surrey Photographic Association (SPA), and for the Royal Photographic Society (RPS) – I’ve been doing that for about 17 years.
I’ve also entered international salons and exhibitions, usually digitally.
There’s an organisation called FIAP, through which you can submit your images to salons all around the world for a small fee.
You build up acceptances and it leads to an international qualification.
It’s a good way to test whether your images are good or not.
There’s a similar American organisation called PSA.
It’s a good way to grow your photography.”
So, what made you choose to study your MFA in Photography here with us?
“A friend who is a trustee of the Royal Photographic Society recommended Professor Anna Fox to me.
I had been looking for a way to lift my photography.
I live in Woking, so it was an obvious choice!”
And what advice would you give to UCA students on their photography courses?
“Take a lot of photos!
With digital, once you have the right equipment for you, it doesn’t matter if you take 10 photos in an afternoon, or 1,000.
And experiment wherever you can.”
Want to follow in Marilyn’s footsteps?
Have a look at our photography course pages !

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2024/portrait-wins-portrait-of-britain-award:
An MFA Photography student at the University for the Creative Arts (UCA) has been named one of the winners of Portrait of Britain, celebrating Britain’s diversity.
15 January 2024
Priyanka Pattni at Home by Naoto Yoshida
Naoto Yoshida ’s photograph , Priyanka Pattni at Home , capture d the subject playing with a stim toy – something they play with when they feel sensory overload.
It is one of 100 winning photographs, which have been published in Portrait of Britain Volume 6, ( Bluecoat Press ) , and are on display on the British Journal of Photography’s 1854 digital platform.
And throughout January, all winning entries are being displayed on digital advertising screens (by JCDecaux) located in high streets, shopping centres and transport hubs across the country.
Naoto’s portrait is part of a larger body of documentary work focused on celebrating the ordinary, lived experience of neurodivergent people, particularly the moment of repose, helping show the interplay between them and their surroundings.
“The impetus for this project was a sense of unease from the realisation that I simplified the lived experiences of neurodivergent individuals when I, as a journalist, reported about the challenges faced by Japanese young people with disabilities in their job search,” said Naoto.
“Research led me to ponder how to visualise ‘invisible’ disabilities.”
Naoto has always loved taking pictures of people he met and places he visited, but his main inspiration for photography was his dad’s aspiration to be a photojournalist, photographing the Indochina refugee crisis or indigenous culture.
Having been introduced to Professor Anna Fox, a forerunner in British photography, by a friend and UCA photography alumni, Naoto enrolled in the two-year MFA course.
The course has enabled him to acquire first-hand practical experience, expand his ways of working and researching, and take him out of his comfort zone.
The subject of his photograph, Priyanka , encouraged Naoto to submit their image to the competition , which is seen as a celebration of identity, capturing the many faces of modern Britain.
Mick Moore, one of the judges and CEO and Creative Director of the British Journal of Photography said: “Portrait of Britain captures the quirky, the mundane, the here and now of the extraordinary every day in which we live.”
Follow Naoto on Instagram.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/news/2023/tate-ofili-tribute-to-uca-alumni-khadija-saye:
UCA alumni Khadija Saye, who died in the Grenfell Tower fire, has been remembered in a stunning new work by British artist Chris Ofili CBE at Tate Britain.
11 October 2023
Chris Ofili, Requiem, 2023 (detail) commissioned for Tate Britain’s north staircase.
© Chris Ofili.
Courtesy the artist.
Photograph: Thierry Bal
Khadija takes centre stage in Ofili’s piece, Requiem , which spans three walls, and is a poetic reflection on loss, spirituality, and transformation.
The entire composition is united by water, representing collective grief as well as connecting Venice – where the pair first met – London, and Ofili’s home in Trinidad.
Her pose is from a series of photographic tintype self-portraits she created in 2017, Dwelling: In This Space We Breathe.
A screen-print from this series, Andichurai , will go on display alongside Requiem .
Khadija graduated from UCA in 2013 with degree in Photography .
By the time of her death she had become an established artist and activist .
She first met Ofili in 2017 , where he r work was on display in the Diaspora Pavilion of the Venice Biennale .
In a recent Guardian article, Ofili said of her: “There was an undeniably genuine, honest presence about her.
It turns out she made quite extraordinary, mystical, alchemic self-portraits and works, fusing her history and the history of photography.”
He hopes the mural will “continue to speak across time to our collective sadness.”
Matt Lindsey, a Senior Lecturer for UCA’s School of Fine Art, Crafts & Photography, remembers her well:
“Khadija brought a kind, attentive disposition to her time at UCA.
She was a generous and humble individual exhibiting levels of perception beyond her own recognition.
“On entering the room, she would bring a reassuring genial warmth.
It was an absolute privilege to be in her presence.
Khadija was a bright talent whose work was just starting to receive the acclaim it deserved.”
Requiem can be found above Tate Britain’s north staircase and will be in place for the next ten years.
To learn more about Khadija Saye, visit Khadija Saye Arts at IntoUniversity , founded in 2019 to encourage and support young people with an interest in the arts.
UCA offers a Grenfell Tower Scholarship to survivors of the tragedy.
For more information, visit our Scholarships and Free Discounts page and click fee discounts for UK students.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/bsc-industrial-design:
Extensive facilities to make sophisticated prototypes of your work
Learn transferable skills to take you into a range of industry spheres
Tinkerers thrive here!
Are you endlessly curious and always wondering how you could make things work better?
Do you love taking objects apart for a closer look?
Are you prepared to get your hands dirty?
If so, our BSc (Hons) Industrial Design degree course at UCA Canterbury could be perfect for you.
This technical design course could lead to a number of careers, from mass fabrication or engineering, to working for tech firms or joining the automotive industry.
Industrial designers deal in the details, and we’ll teach you how to look at the smallest items and work out how to improve them.
You’ll learn to use industry-leading software, develop your problem-solving skills, gain a deep understanding of materials and systems, examine sustainability considerations, and develop your knowledge of how things work.
And you’ll learn all this in great studio spaces with incredible making facilities, alongside lecturers, tutors, and technicians who have extensive knowledge and experience in the field.
UK applicants: admissions@uca.ac.uk International/EU applicants: internationaldmissions@uca.ac.uk
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Industrial Design students may be interested in.
Sulaiman talks about studying Industrial Design at UCA
Studios, UCA Canterbury
3D workshop, UCA Canterbury
Graduates of Industrial Design can expect to leave their studies to work within a variety of different roles.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ba-modelmaking:
Create work for props and VFX to architectural and product
A course for storytellers who believe that detail matters
You'll get skills for a diverse range of careers and industries
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our BA (Hons) Modelmaking degree:
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Modelmaking students may be interested in.
Graduates of this exciting course can expect to leave with a specialist knowledge of modelmaking, enabling them to develop their career within a variety of roles.
View Modelmaking portfolio advice

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ba-studio-practice-product-design:
We offer a range of webinars throughout the year that Studio Practice (Product Design) (top-up) students may be interested in.
For this course, we’ll need to see your portfolio for review.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/courses/ma-product-design:
At UCA Canterbury, we believe that design is universal.
Whether you're creating a product, shaping a space or crafting an experience, great design begins with a deep understanding of people, context and purpose.
Our MA Product Design course is built around this belief.
This Product Design masters degree will help you develop a holistic, research-led design approach that extends far beyond the object itself.
We welcome applicants from across all design disciplines.
This including areas such as architecture, craft, engineering and interaction design.
Whether you’re looking to refine your direction, build new skills or define your design identity, this Masters in Product Design offers you the opportunity to discover your specialism and master your craft.
You’ll explore how products connect with the world around them; emotionally, spatially, and environmentally.
You'll also learn to approach complex problems with critical thinking, curiosity and creativity through strong research, rigorous testing and hands-on prototyping.
Our Product Design MA course combines traditional making with emerging technologies.
It gives you the freedom to experiment, challenge convention and shape your own design method.
You’ll work with an expert team of academic and visiting professionals.
There are also opportunities to collaborate and test ideas across disciplines as you work within a community of students, including those studying MA Interior Design.
You’ll undertake self-directed research projects throughout your postgraduate degree, using an integrated design process that emphasises deep inquiry, iterative process development and real-world relevance.
By studying Product Design at UCA you'll have access to industry-standard equipment and facilities.
These spaces will support your ability to develop innovative, high-quality outcomes that stand out in a competitive field.
Previous graduates have gone on to launch businesses, join leading design studios and take on roles in design strategy and management.
Whatever your path, we will help you build the knowledge, confidence and professional presence needed to thrive as a designer in a fast-moving global landscape.
Select from the following options to find out more about the different study options available for our MA Product Design degree:
Manasi talks about studying Product Design at UCA
Our range of industry contacts include:
And recent guest lecturers include:
Graduate opportunities exist within:
Christina Fountoulaki

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/levels-of-study/undergraduate/animation:
If you are looking to make your mark as an animator, illustrator or computer animation artist, our BA animation degrees will help you get there

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/levels-of-study/undergraduate/architecture:
Top 5 in the UK for teaching quality (The Guardian and The Times / Sunday Times 2024)

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/levels-of-study/undergraduate/business-and-management:
Our unique Business School for the Creative Industries offers business degrees that are specifically tailored to creative sectors

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/levels-of-study/undergraduate/communication-and-media:
Our strong media industry links mean you can benefit from work experience opportunities within television, radio, PR agencies and fashion brands

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/levels-of-study/undergraduate/computer-arts:
Bring your characters, spaces and worlds to life through digital animation, games development, app design and virtual reality

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/levels-of-study/undergraduate/crafts:
Perfect your craft on a campus located in Farnham: the only place in England with World Craft Town status

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/levels-of-study/undergraduate/fashion-and-textiles:
Ranked in the top 15 in the UK for Fashion & Textiles in the UK by The Guardian for 2024

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/levels-of-study/undergraduate/film-and-tv:
Study film at UCA and become part of an alumni community that includes Oscar and BAFTA winners

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/levels-of-study/undergraduate/fine-art:
No matter where your artistic passions lie, experiment with different disciplines and approaches to uncover what really makes you tick as an artist

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/levels-of-study/undergraduate/games:
Study a games degree close to the epicentre of the UK's gaming industry, with many graduates going on to work for nearby gaming studios

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/levels-of-study/undergraduate/graphic-design:
Taught by practising designers with a wealth of industry contacts, you'll work on live industry briefs for brands like Nescafé and Benetton

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/levels-of-study/undergraduate/illustration:
If your dream is to tell stories and convey messages through illustration, our  degree courses can help you master the skills you need

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/levels-of-study/undergraduate/interior-design:
Our interior design courses are ranked 8th in the UK by The Guardian for 2024

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/levels-of-study/undergraduate/marketing:
Our marketing courses are ranked 6th in the UK for student satisfaction by the Complete University Guide 2024

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/levels-of-study/undergraduate/music:
Our music courses are ranked 1st in the UK for student satisfaction by the Complete University Guide 2024

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/levels-of-study/undergraduate/performing-arts:
Learn in our industry-grade workshops, rehearsal and performance spaces, and stage your work in professional venues beyond our campuses
No day as a music student is ever the same, there’s always something different and fun to do.
10.00am: Most days will start off in the base room either doing independent work or having a lecture.
12.30pm: After lectures we’ll go for lunch in the refectory or to one of the many cafés around Farnham (the best ones are in the Lion and Lamb Yard!) until the next part of the day.
1.30pm: After lunch a variety of things can happen — there could be another lecture, a tutorial, workshop or guest lecture.
Some days when there’s a free afternoon a few of us may have a jam session.
Afternoon lectures are usually either more practical or look into music and related industries.
During these lectures we learn how music is implemented into other creative art industries and the effect/impact it has.
6.00pm: In the evening we usually go to one of the many pubs in Farnham (my favourite is the Cobbett) or an event at the Students’ Union.
I also have an ongoing project with a few members of staff at UCA called Sea of Cables, where we gather in different spaces such as the James Hockey Gallery and make ambient/experimental music by responding to what we each play.
For many creatives, adaptability is key — especially when their dream career is in something very niche.
For Jasmine Haskell, that means being not only a theatrical designer and maker, but also an illustrator and tattoo artist.
A few months after graduating, Jasmine got a freelance job making puppets and directing puppetry for Cambridge Theatre Company’s production of Goodnight Mister Tom.
She also went on to design and build the set for Cambridge Theatre Company’s James and the Giant Peach.
With the help of a couple of friends who worked in the industry, I managed to fabricate — from scratch!
— a set of an enormous peach covered in mottled translucent fabric and willow swirls, accompanied by a selection of props including seagull puppets.
Jasmine also works as a tattoo artist, to support herself during the quiet season for theatre work or when she doesn't have any projects on.
During COVID lockdowns she turned to working on her drawing practice, got back into oil paints and used online classes to brush up on her art fundamentals and composition skills, helping her for when she could get back to tattooing.
I embraced the flexibility during my second and third year and truly revelled in making my final major project — a giant Dodo puppet!
The success of this puppet set me up to take on freelance work after graduation, and it has its own career now — it travels the world as part of the Dizzy O’Dare Theatre Company.
After securing a series of auditions for the National Theatre, Jamahyl eventually landed a two-month run in Small Island
The experience of being in Small Island will stay with me forever, especially coming from Caribbean heritage and telling the story of my grandparents’ experience coming to the UK...
I am truly blessed to have been a part of such a production, especially for my first acting gig.
The physical/vocal warm-up skills I learned [at UCA] have always kept me sharp.
I stole all the best warm-ups from my teachers and incorporated them into my own routine.
Whether it be for a self-tape, audition, or about to get on stage, warming the body/voice up is crucial, it can truly make the difference!
Jamahyl says he has a few as-yet unannounced projects in the pipeline, adding: “I am always open to the screen but there is nothing like the pressure of stage.”

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/levels-of-study/undergraduate/photography:
Work with students from other creative courses as you build an exciting and varied portfolio that reflects your unique ambitions as a photographer

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/levels-of-study/undergraduate/product-design:
Our Product Design courses offer opportunities to work on industry briefs, competitions and placements, helping you expand your professional network

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/fees-finance/undergraduate:
BA (Hons) four-year degree course with Integrated Foundation Year for following courses only:
- BA (Hons) Business & Management - BA (Hons) Digital Marketing & Social Media - BA (Hons) Fashion Business & Management - BA (Hons) Music Business & Management
All fees are currently correct, but may change as a result of changes in government policy on tuition fees, entitlement to fee reductions and tax or benefit rules.
You should check for the latest information before you enrol.
Fees are correct for the stated academic year only.
If you opt to study the Professional Practice Year or the International Study Year, you will be required to pay a reduced tuition fee for that year.
The University will provide you with further advice and guidance about this as you approach the Year.
If you choose to study part-time, your fees are calculated for every 10 credits of study you complete.
This means that the amount you pay will depend on the intensity of your study.
See our Full fee schedules and regulations page for more information about part-time fees for each year of entry.
EU students are eligible to the UCA Creative Europe Scholarship, this is a fee reduction to the equivalent of UK student fee for duration of the course.
The scholarship will be automatically awarded if you meet all the eligibility criteria.
You do not need to complete an application form.
Please note, the fees shown are for the first year of study only.
If your course is more than one year in duration, there will be further fees due for the subsequent years.
For more details please see the full fee schedules and regulations page
Students from the Crown Dependencies are eligible for UK (Home) fee status under the following conditions:
We review our tuition fees and fee regulations each academic year, go to our full fee schedules and regulations page to view the tuition fee schedules and regulations for previous years.
Depending on where you live within the UK, will depend on the finance you can apply for.
This loan will cover the full amount of your fees.
The amount you receive doesn’t depend on your household income and you’ll only start repaying this loan once you’ve graduated and are earning over £25,000 a year.
To ensure that funding is in place for the beginning of the academic year you should make an application as soon as possible.
If you haven't received confirmation of a Tuition Fee Loan before the end of September then please email finance.sl@ucreative.ac.uk to let us know that your application is in progress.
More about Tuition Fee loans
You can apply for a loan to help you pay your living costs.
How much you can get will depend on your household income as well as where you choose to live and study.
You’ll have to repay this loan, but not until you’ve graduated and are earning over £25,000 a year.
More about the Maintenance Loan
If you’re a new student from England and starting a full-time course, you should be able to apply for your student finance from early in the year before your course starts.
Applying online is the easiest way and the process is pretty straight-forward.
You can find out how much financial support you’re likely to receive by getting a personalised quote using the student finance calculator .
If you are a resident of Northern Ireland you should apply for a Student Loan from Student Finance ni.
Go to Student Finance ni
Tuition Fee Loan
If you are a Scottish resident you should apply for your Tuition Fee Loan from the Student Awards Agency Scotland (SAAS).
Additional Funding
For Scottish residents, there are bursaries available to you when you apply to study with us.
The Student Awards Agency for Scotland (SAAS) offer two different bursaries that you can apply for, depending on which criteria you meet.
Both bursaries - the Young Students' Bursary and the Independent Students' Bursary - are means-tested and paid in addition to your student loan.
You can apply for these regardless of whether you intend to study in Scotland, or elsewhere in the UK.
Find out more about additional funding
If you are a Welsh resident you should apply for your Tuition Fee Loan from the Student Finance Wales .
For Welsh residents, there are grants available to you when you apply to study with us.
Student Finance Wales offer a non-repayable Fee Grant in addition to the standard Tuition Fee Loan.
Importantly, Welsh residents do not need to study in Wales to be eligible for the Fee Grant – you can apply if you are studying anywhere in the UK.
You can find out more about this on the Welsh Government Website .
To find out more information and make sure you’re getting the most out of what is available to you, visit the Student Finance Wales website where you’ll find a breakdown on everything that’s available and information on how to apply.
Most UK students don’t have to pay their fees upfront.
In most cases, you can get a tuition-fee loan from the Government through the Student Loans Company to cover these costs.
And, if you apply successfully to the Student Loans Company, they’ll pay your fees directly to us, making the whole process really easy.
Depending on where you live within the UK , will depend on the finance you can apply for.
If you do want to pay your fees directly, please go to our how to pay pages for more information.
If you start your degree on or after 1 August 2023 you’ll be on Student Finance England's Plan 5 .
The tuition fee loan and maintenance loan for living costs are put together into a single loan.
As part of Plan 5 you won’t have to make any loan payments until you’re in employment and earning over £25,000 a year.
It also means that:
Interest is charged from the day you receive your first loan payment until you’ve repaid the loan in full or it is written off, whichever is first.
Remember – you won’t have to make any payments until you’re in employment and earning over £27,295 a year, regardless of when you finish or leave your course.
The gov.uk website has further information about repaying student loans .
Once you have firmly accepted your offer to study with us, you will need to pay a deposit as part payment of your tuition fees – the amount you need to pay is stated in your offer letter and in our Fee Regulations published on the website.
We need this before we can issue your Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) number, which you need when you apply for your UK student visa.
You can pay your deposit by bank transfer, WeChat, UnionPay, Alipay or Tenpay using our secure bank transfer portal , which allows you to pay in your local currency with a favourable exchange rate compared to most banks and with no transaction charges.
If you use the bank transfer portal , you will need to enter your UCA student number, your contact details, your chosen currency and the amount you want to pay.
You will receive a quote for the amount in your local currency; this quote is guaranteed for 72 hours, during which time you should tell your bank to transfer funds using the instructions you receive.
You can also pay your deposit by credit or debit card using our online payment system .
You will need your 7 digit student number (found on our offer communication or applicant portal) and your date of birth.
When we receive your deposit we will confirm this by email, and we will let you know which immigration documents we need from you so that we can issue your CAS.
Remember, if you want to pay the discounted tuition fee, you will need to pay your tuition fees in full before the published start date of the course.
View our scholarships
If you're undertaking an undergraduate course with us, there are several ways to gain additional financial support, including bursaries and loans, to help you with your studies and living expenses.
This fund is available to all full and part-time undergraduate students from the UK who are experiencing financial difficulties beyond your control if you can demonstrate a clear financial need.
The details and application form for 2025/26 will be available here for the start of the academic year.
Eligible students may apply to the Emergency Support Bursary for help towards the cost of an unexpected event or incident which has resulted in financial hardship.
Bursaries may be awarded up to a maximum of £400 dependent on evidence of the costs incurred.
The PPY Bursary is available to students who may otherwise find it financially difficult to undertake a professional placement due to the initial costs involved.
Students undertaking a Professional Practice Year (PPY) may need to purchase appropriate clothing and/or may need to fund the cost of a travel pass in advance of starting their placement.
As home students will not be entitled to a student loan whilst undertaking their placement year as this is expected to be a paid placement, the University recognises not all students will have the financial resources to meet these initial costs.
Applications for the Student Laptop Bursary will open on 20 October 2025.
Eligible students are able to apply for a bursary of up to £500 to help with the cost of a laptop or equivalent item such as an iPad or MacBook.
To be eligible, students must fulfil the following criteria:
You may be eligible for the Disabled Students' Allowance if you have a long-term illness, mental health condition or specific learning difficulty, such as dyslexia.
If you’re a full-time student with children, you can apply for a Childcare Grant .
If you have children the Parents' Learning Allowance could help towards your course costs, such as books, materials and travel.
How much you get depends on your household income.
You don’t have to pay the money back.
The Adult Dependants' Grant.
could provide extra help if you’re a full-time student with an adult who depends on you financially.
Our International & EU Student Fund is designed to support you if you have an unexpected financial crisis, such as your usual source of income being delayed or lost, or having to pay unplanned and unavoidable costs.
Your local British Council office can give you details of scholarships and other sources of funding that you can apply for as an international student.
There are a number of travel saver-schemes available for students studying a undergraduate course, depending on where you choose to study.
Please clink on the relevant link below for more information:
For more information please contact the Specialist Adviser for your campus:

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/levels-of-study/postgraduate/animation:
Join a UCA animation alumni community that includes BAFTA and Golden Globe winners and the creators of iconic shows such as Peppa Pig and Hey Duggee

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/levels-of-study/postgraduate/architecture:
Our architecture courses are ranked 5th in the UK for teaching quality in The Guardian and The Times / Sunday Times for 2024

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/blogs/leading-nollywood-filmmaker-picks-uca-for-phd:
Emem Misodi, A leading filmmaker in Nollywood - the thriving Nigerian film industry – is furthering her craft at UCA.
A film poster for Emem Misodi's movie, Special Jollof, which aired on Netflix
Emem Misodi, whose film career in writing, producing and directing spans almost three decades and more than 50 films, is studying for a PhD at UCA Farnham, investigating the portrayal of cultural hybridity in Nollywood and what it means for the Nigerian film industry.
“My research stems from over 25 years of my practice in Nollywood.
I will be speaking to its elements of narrative construction along the lines of hybridity,” she said.
“Through my research, I hope to establish my position as a Nigerian filmmaker in the context of storytelling by reflecting on my own practice and my inevitably changing position within the context of a relationship between theory and practice.
When I finish, I intend to combine my experience in filmmaking with my newly found scholarship to produce all-around works that tell a bigger picture for Nollywood.”
Emem Misodi
As well as her studies, Emem is still busy making movies – she’s produced two projects while at UCA.
“I work with a great team in Nigeria and most times I am able to do my preproduction remotely and fly over to Nigeria when it's time for principal photography,” she said.
“I am also able to oversee the postproduction aspect remotely, so my work is not exactly on hold while I am studying here at UCA.
“I am finding my stay at UCA quite interesting.
The lecturers are warm and supportive, and I particularly love the blend of creative energy at UCA.
The fact that UCA is a community of creatives, and its diverse nature is what attracted me to it.”
She explains that Nollywood could be seen as a decolonisation agent for African cinema.
“It’s the mainstream post-colonial Nigerian film industry and the third-largest film industry in the world.
It is not so different from other cinema forms, but it became popular through its shift in filmmaking from capital intensive Western hegemonic production standards to low-budget productions using the home video format.
It’s grown immensely from its beginning to making much better films now.”
Her advice to UCA's current crop of filmmakers is to stay true to your art, be consistent, have loads of patience, read, write and just begin.
She added: “Finally, my advice to our black filmmaking students would be to be authentic, stay true to their culture and identity, and make their voices heard.
No one can tell your story better than you.”
Find out more about our film courses and PhD programs .

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/research/research-degrees/how-to-apply:
To apply for a research degree at UCA you will need to apply directly to us.
Applications for Autumn 2025 have now closed.
To register your interest for 2026 entry please complete this form and we will contact you when applications open:
To apply for a PhD at UCA, you must have a recognised Master’s degree (or equivalent) relevant to your proposed programme of study, or a first-class honours degree (or equivalent) with appropriate research or professional experience.
International candidates must have an IELTS 7.0 in English Language for a standard thesis route (or equivalent qualification).
The portal for 2025 applications has now closed, and applications will be reviewed in May 2025.
Applying will activate Stage 1 of the applications process, where our research degree team will assess your potential for PhD study at UCA.
If successful, you will be invited for an interview.
Interviews will take place online, and will review your research experience, qualifications, references, motivation for study and the details of your research proposal and the feasibility of your potential PhD project.
If you are selected for interview, you will be invited to attend an online interview in May/June 2025.
If you are successful, you will enrol with the UCA Doctoral College in September 2025.
All students starting in 2025/6 will be invited to induction sessions at UCA mid-late September 2025.
Please note that successful applicants will need to commit to attending six day-long training sessions, held across October, December and February.
These will be delivered in hybrid mode on our campuses.
When applying you will need to identify three potential supervisors at UCA for your proposed project, and to have discussed your proposal with at least one of them.
PLEASE NOTE THAT THIS DOES NOT CONFIRM ANY SUPERVISORY ARRANGEMENTS, NOR IS IT AN OFFER OF A PLACE.
You will still need to submit an application, be shortlisted for interview, and then be offered a place, before we can review your nominated supervisory team.
In the first instance, please contact the Research Lead of the subject area in which you hope to study so that they can direct you to potential suitable advisors.
They are:
If you are successful in gaining a place on the PhD programme, UCA will appoint a supervisory team for your project.
If there is a member of staff who you would particularly like to work with you can let us know in your application.
If you wish, you may also contact a potential supervisor directly for their advice about your application.
After logging into the application portal, please ensure you have completed the below sections before submitting or we will be unable to process your application.
Before beginning your application, be sure to review this year’s Vice-Chancellor’s PhD Studentship competition , which offers candidates fully funded PhDs in a range of different categories.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/research/research-degrees/funding:
Please note: the fees shown are for the first year of study.
Please check for the latest information before you enrol.
Students from the Crown Dependencies are eligible for Home fee status under the following conditions:
There are several routes open to candidates seeking PhD funding, including:
If you’re from the UK or the EU, you may be eligible to take out a PhD loan from the UK government .
We run an additional student support fund for research degree students, providing up to £300 per student per year to support research costs such as specialist external training, attendance at conferences, or the cost of staging an exhibition of practice work for your final examination.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/accepted-qualifications:
You must make up your tariff offer from the following RQF level 3 qualifications:
Other UK/EU/International qualifications equivalent to tariff points at level 3 and deemed suitable by the Admissions Team.
If you have a qualification above a level 3 on the RQF, you'll meet the entry criteria for the course.
If you have tariff points from qualifications that don't appear on the list above, they'll be considered on an individual basis.
If you have fewer tariffs points from qualifications on the list above, any other tariff points that you hold will be taken into account and your application would be treated as a 'near miss' that will need academic assessment.
* T Levels, which are an alternative to A levels, are usually seen to offer a direct route to employment but that doesn't mean they can't be used to progress to university.
We welcome applications from students studying T Levels, who we will continue to support, develop and prepare for future employment.
Our standard T Level entry requirement is Merit in a related subject but we may make lower offers to applicants with a strong portfolio or who may have experienced mitigating circumstances or difficulties.
If you have any queries about the admissions process or an application that you have made, please contact the relevant Admissions team.
Home/UK Admissions: Phone: + 44 (0) 1252 416110 Email: admissions@uca.ac.uk
International Admissions (including EU): Phone:   + 44 (0) 1252 918266 Email: internationaladmissions@uca.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study/levels-of-study/pre-sessional-english:
We run Pre-Sessional English (PSE) courses in the UK and online to help you to raise your English language level to meet the entry requirements of your main course.
Courses run for six weeks, 10 weeks and 15 weeks, depending on how much support you need.
Taking a Pre-Sessional English course will not only help you improve your language skills, but it will also help you with your studies and research, and give you more confidence as you settle into UK life.
The Pre-Sessional English (PSE) courses are designed to equip students with the essential English language and communication skills necessary for success in their Creative Arts studies.
This is done through using and interacting with materials specifically related to art and design and creative industries while completing activities and tasks to practice and improve academic English language skills.
Our courses are project-based, with each module focusing on a specific topic area.
This enables students to improve their academic English skills in real-world contexts exploring real issues using authentic materials.
All students follow the same basic study programme, though some materials and focus may vary depending on whether the student is on the Art & Design or Business pathway.
The courses cover and assess a range of academic, research, and study skills:
The PSE course is delivered in an ongoing project format which aims to encourage students to focus on the processes and stages of learning, development, and reflection while working towards their final presentations.
Each teaching week*, students receive up to 15 taught hours in the form of lessons and tutorials with their class tutor from Monday to Thursday, with Fridays set aside for additional sessions.
In addition, students are expected to do at least 3 hours of independent or guided study each day.
This includes watching pre-class videos and completing associated activities before most lessons.
This flipped learning approach means that the more time-consuming ‘input’ stage of lessons happens outside of class, allowing students to watch and understand the videos at their own pace, while lessons can be used for more communicative practice.
Post-class extension or consolidation tasks will also be assigned for completion after most lessons.
During a typical teaching week, students can expect to complete at least 30 hours of study, comprising taught content and independent study.
* Timetables during assessments will vary day-to-day.
You will be provided with more information on this during the course.
Autumn 2025 we will be offering the following online courses.
Our online course offers the flexibility of studying from home without the need for a visa or travel expenses.
You will have live classes, interactive tasks, and full tutor support, but you must ensure you have a strong internet connection, a quiet study space, and the self-discipline to manage your learning effectively.
To apply please email internationaladmissions@uca.ac.uk .
You must apply for your chosen main course at UCA before you applying for a Pre-sessional English course.
If you already have an offer for one of our courses, you can apply for a Pre-sessional English course by contacting the International Admissions team on internationaladmissions@uca.ac.uk with the following details:
Deadlines for applications will vary depending on which course you are intending to take.
We have a limit to the number of students that we can take onto our Pre-Sessional English courses.
When they are full we won't be able to accept any more applications.
We recommend that you apply as soon as possible to avoid disappointment.
Due to visa requirements, application deadlines for on campus courses are significantly earlier than those for online courses.
If you are planning to come to the UK to study face-to-face, please bear this in mind when preparing your application.
When you receive your offer you'll also be be sent a copy of the Student Handbook.
This contains a lot of detailed information about the course.
We strongly recommend that you read this thoroughly before the course starts.
Shortly before your course starts you'll be sent information about how to complete enrolment.
You'll only receive this task if you have accepted your offer and paid the relevant fees and deposit.
You won't be able to start the course until you have completed enrolment, so it's essential that you do this as soon as possible.
There are a number of tests that are accepted for entry onto our Pre-sessional English courses.
If you are planning to study in the UK, you may need to take a Secure English Language Test (SELT) that has been approved by the UK Government.
A SELT is not required if:
Taking a SELT is recommended as you may not know what component scores you will achieve before taking an English test.
This means that you can still receive a single CAS for the PSE course, in the event you are unable to meet the conditions for a combined CAS.
For online courses, we accept any of the SELT tests listed above as well as the following:
The Pre-Sessional English course is project-based and delivered in modules:
Each module develops essential academic skills, including critical reading, research skills, essay writing, discussion techniques and more.
* Your scores from assessments in this module will provide your final scores for the course and appear on your certificate.
The UCA Pre-sessional English (PSE) course is an interactive and project-based programme designed to develop the academic English and study skills you need for UCA degree programmes.
You will be taught by experienced tutors who specialise in English for Art, Design, and Business, helping you build confidence in speaking, listening, reading, and writing in an academic setting.
Lessons focus on real-world communication, ensuring that you can apply what you learn to your degree studies.
Teaching is highly interactive, with a strong emphasis on engagement and participation.
You will take part in structured lessons, research tasks, and project work, developing key skills such as critical thinking, note-taking, referencing, and academic writing.
Alongside group learning, you will also receive individual support through one-to-one tutorials, where tutors provide personalised feedback on your progress.
The course blends live teaching, independent study, and tutor-led guidance, meaning you are fully prepared for the demands of university-level study.
You will need a fast, reliable broadband connection, a good quality laptop with a webcam, and a quiet study space that you do not share with anybody else.
These are essential for the PSE course and you will not be able to study without them.
It is also recommended that you have access to a printer, though this is not a requirement of the course.
Although you will be studying in a face-to-face environment, you will still need a good quality laptop to access materials, complete some assessments, do online research etc.
You will not be able to successfully complete the course if you do not have one, and a mobile phone is not a suitable substitute.
Please note that UCA is not able to provide computers for the use of on campus PSE students.
All online and on-campus courses use:
All of these are free for students and you will be given a guide to how you will use them in your first week.
Your tutor will also introduce you to other applications during the course.
Whether you are studying online or face-to-face, you will need something to make notes with.
You can use traditional pen and paper or a tablet for this – either is fine.
Although timings of the online and campus courses vary slightly, the study day is broadly the same for both.
All times given are UK BST.
Live, interactive lessons with your class tutor consisting of two 1.5 hour sessions with a 30 minute break between them.
Guided self-study or independent study, tutorials, extra skills classes, and project work.
Lectures, project briefings, workshops, additional support sessions, independent study, project work, assessments and extracurricular activities (trips, project work, and additional support sessions).
Regardless of studying face-to-face in the UK or online, all students are expected to complete a minimum of 3 hours independent study every day, including at the weekends.
Our Pre-Sessional English courses are full-time, intensive study.
It's strongly recommended that you make your best effort to attend 100% of your classes.
You'll be marked absent for a lesson if you're more than 15 minutes late.
If your attendance drops below 90%, you'll be invited to a meeting with your tutor.
You may be withdrawn from the course if your attendance falls below 70%.
We understand that sometimes unexpected issues may cause you to be late or require you to miss a class.
If you need to miss a class or have already been absent, you must complete the Pre-Sessional Absence Form on the same day.
Some absences – such as illness (with evidence), serious personal issues or official visa appointments – may be authorised.
However, work commitments, social events or minor transport delays will not be accepted as valid reasons for missing class.
The course requires you to attend live classes and actively participate in real-time learning.
Lessons are not pre-recorded, so you must be present for scheduled sessions with your camera on at all times.
However, you will have access to course materials – including pre-class videos (PCAs) – resources and assignments that you can review in your own time.
In addition to live classes, you are expected to complete at least three hours of independent study per day.
This includes research, coursework, and guided self-study tasks, ensuring that you reinforce what you’ve learned in lessons.
If you need extra support, you will also have a weekly one-to-one tutorial with your tutor to discuss your progress and receive feedback.
You'll take a set of final assessments that determine the scores you receive on your certificate.
Scores for each part of the assessment are converted to a 0-9 scale (similar to IELTS).
You will be assessed through a combination of project-based work, timed assessments, and pre-class activities (PCAs) to ensure you develop the academic skills needed for university study.
You'll be introduced to all parts of the assessment at the start of the course, and look at them in more detail as you progress through the course.
You will be given the opportunity to practise parts of the assessment in class and during your independent study time, and your tutor will guide you in developing the skills you need to successfully complete the course.
All students, both online and on campus, follow exactly the same assessment materials and structure.
However, online assessments require a greater use of technology.
Timed assessments are dual-proctored, requiring students to join Teams meetings on both a laptop and a phone or tablet.
If you do not achieve the required score in part of your final summative assessment, you may be eligible to take additional support classes before retaking that section.
Please note that all retake classes and assessments are taken online via Microsoft Teams and may be delivered by a different tutor from the class tutor you studied with.
Retake classes and assessments are offered at no extra cost.
If you have a single CAS that only covers the Pre-Sessional English we will make your main course offer unconditional and issue a new CAS on successful completion of the Pre-Sessional English course.
You will be able to apply for a new student visa while in the UK using the new CAS.
If you are studying a face-to-face Pre-Sessional English course you do not need to apply for a combined/Joint CAS to cover the period of the this course and your main degree.
You will receive a combined CAS automatically providing the following is true:
You will have three weeks between the end of the Pre-Sessional English and the start of your main course.
This is usually plenty of time to get the documents that you need.
If it takes a bit longer there's no need to worry, as you have an additional four weeks after the start date of your course to complete physical enrolment in the UK.
Your Pre-Sessional English scores and certificate are shared with International Admissions on the last day of your course and processed early the following week.
If you have any questions please contact internationaladmission@uca.ac.uk .
No, our Pre-Sessional English courses are not IELTS preparation courses.
It is intended to develop your academic English skills for UCA courses, and uses project-based learning in the context of art, design, and the creative industries.
It has been designed to not only improve your English, but also prepare you more fully for your chosen programme of study and university life.
The Pre-Sessional English syllabus is based around a clearly structured set of learning objectives.
These are goals that tell you what skills or knowledge you will develop during the course.
Think of them as a roadmap showing what you are working towards:
No, the Pre-Sessional English course is full-time and intensive, meaning you will need to dedicate significant time to studying.
You will have live classes, independent study, coursework, and assessments, requiring a commitment of at least 30 hours per week.
Balancing a job alongside the course would be very difficult, and we strongly advise against working while studying, even a part-time job.
Your focus should be on improving your academic English and preparing for your degree.
If you are studying on campus with a student visa, you must also check UK visa regulations regarding work restrictions.
No.
If you successfully complete the Pre-Sessional English course with the required target scores, you will meet the English language entry condition for your main course.
No further English test (such as IELTS) is required.
All UCA Pre-Sessional English certificates are valid for 1 academic year.
At the present time, our Pre-Sessional English certificates are only valid for entry to UCA programmes of study.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/applying-to-uca/undergraduate:
We offer a wide range of creative postgraduate degrees – whether it's an MFA in Photography, a Master of Architecture, or an MBA.
If you're keen to deepen your creative understanding, all the information you need to apply is here.
If you live in the UK, you should apply through the University and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS).
You can apply online through the UCAS website .
When applying for our courses, use our institution code - C93 .
You can submit your UCAS application, from mid-September, the year before your course begins.
Once you apply UCAS will acknowledge your application and forward it to us.
You can track the progress of your application through UCAS Track .
When we get your application we’ll send you an email with your login details for the applicant portal .
This is where you’ll access all the information you’ll need through your applicant journey.
UCAS makes background information available to us when they send us your application – this is called contextual data.
We will not use this information when making a decision about whether or not to offer you a place at UCA.
If you’re based in the UK, we will then invite you to an in-person portfolio review at an Applicant Day, where you’ll have the chance to get to know your peers, view student work, and gain all the information you need and want about life at UCA.
We’ll send you details on these events through the applicant portal.
If you would prefer not to attend an Applicant Day you will be able to submit your portfolio digitally.
Your portfolio review is an opportunity for you to show us your talents and potential.
More information about creating your portfolio is available in our portfolio advice section .
We’ll send you more details through the applicant portal after we've received your application.
Wherever you're coming from, UCA is ready to welcome you and we have a dedicated admissions team to help you with your application journey.
Before you apply, please visit our visas and immigration page for more information about applying to study in the UK and check our equivalent qualifications page to discover if we accept your non-UK qualifications.
Once you've applied we’ll send you an email with your login details for the applicant portal .
This is where you'll access all the information you'll need through your applicant journey.
You may be asked to submit your a portfolio via our applicant portal.
Most international applicants apply directly to UCA.
The benefits of applying directly to us are:
If you are applying to more than one university in the UK, then you should apply to us through UCAS .
The deadline to make your application will depend on if you apply directly to UCA or via UCAS:
The UCAS equal consideration deadline for applications for courses starting in September is normally the last Wednesday in January.
We give equal consideration to all applications we receive by this deadline.
But, if we still have places available after this date, we'll consider late applications, too.
The equal consideration deadline does not apply to part-time applicants that apply directly to UCA.
The final deadline for September 2025 entry is 19 September 2025.
If you're intending to study a UCA degree with an integrated foundation year you can apply in exactly the same way outlined above.
Simply select the integrated foundation year option on the form below to begin your application.
If you are intending to study a part-time undergraduate degree you will need to apply directly to UCA, and not via UCAS.
Simply select the 'apply directly' option on the form below.
If you have any questions about the admissions process or your application, please contact the relevant admissions team:

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/applying-to-uca/postgraduate:
To begin your application, find your chosen course using the form on this webpage and click the 'Apply Now' to launch our online application form.
We may invite you to an interview, but we don’t interview all applicants - we may decide to offer you a place based on the strength of your application.
If you are invited to an interview, this could be an in-person, online or telephone interview.
We may also ask you to upload a portfolio of work using the 'portfolio upload task' on the applicant portal.
If you are invited to an interview, this could be an online or telephone interview.
The deadline to make your application will depend on if you are a UK or an international student:
We accept applications throughout the year.
There’s no set deadline but we encourage you to apply by 31 March so you have enough time to prepare for your studies and arrange funding, should you need it.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/switch-to-uca:
There are lots of reasons why the course you’re studying at your current university might not be working out.
It might be that the course isn’t meeting expectations, you’ve realised the subject just isn’t for you or you’ve re-evaluated your career path and want to go in a different, more creative, direction.
If that’s the case, then you might be interested to know you can switch to a course at UCA.
Depending on the course you’re on, and the one you want to switch to, you can transfer in Year 1 or Year 2 – and sometimes in Year 3.
If you’ve decided that you want to study a totally different subject – for example, switching from maths to fine art – then you would most likely need to reapply for Year 1, as any modules or units that you would have already done are unlikely to be relevant in your new subject area.
The good news is, whatever the circumstances, we’re here to support you with advice and guidance – so if you have questions, please don’t hesitate to get in touch and we’ll do all we can to help you come to a decision, and make the transition between your current course and your new start at UCA as smooth as possible.
Read on to find out what to do, depending on your year of study…
If you decide to transfer to UCA sometime during your first year at another university, the best thing to do is to call our Admissions Team on 01252 416110 to see if you’ll be able to transfer to a course here mid-year.
This can sometimes depend on the units of the course you’re transferring to.
If you’ve applied to UCA before but didn’t choose us as your firm offer, we may still have your application in the system and might be able to reinstate it, so that you don’t have to apply through UCAS all over again.
If you did apply to us in the past, call our Admissions Team on 01252 416110 and they’ll be able to look for your application.
If you’ve never applied to UCA before, you can apply to us through UCAS and select the year of entry that you’d like to start in, in this case, Year 2.
It’s not always possible to transfer into Year 3 – many courses start preparations for the final year projects and dissertations in Year 2, while Year 3 often has more independent study time using what has been taught in the previous years.
It’s best, in this case, to get in touch with our Admissions Team on 01252 416110 to discuss the options available to you.
Below are the entry criteria for transferring to a UCA course:
We can make conditional offers, so if you haven’t completed your year of study, you can apply prior to receiving your results by sending details of the modules you’re studying.
If you would like to talk to us to find out more information about our courses and to discuss a possible switch to UCA, please contact our Admissions team:

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/portfolio-advice/ba-acting:
Auditions for our BA (Hons) Acting degree are conducted in a safe and supportive environment.
We want our applicants to be able to enjoy and learn from their experience with us and to be able to share their best work.
These auditions are not just a preliminary assessment of your acting skills, but also an opportunity to see how you connect and collaborate with others.
Our Applicant Days will also give you an opportunity to experience first-hand what training as an actor at UCA might feel like.
Auditions are an integral part of the selection process, and it allows the staff team to develop a cohesive year group.
For the audition, please prepare two monologues:
Your performances should be off book, and you should have read the whole play.
Please do not select pieces only written as monologues, they should be from a full text.
Most importantly, pick pieces that you connect with and are excited to perform.
Please wear loose-fitting, comfortable clothing or sports gear and appropriate footwear such as trainers.
We recommend bringing with you plenty of water, a notebook and pen.
Your performances should be off book, and you should have read the whole play/screenplay.
You may choose to dress neutrally or wear appropriate clothing for the different characters.
If you are unable to attend an Applicant Day for this course, we ask that you submit three self-tapes:
The requirements for an online audition are the same as what we’d expect to see if you were to audition at an Applicant Day.
You can film your self-tape on a video camera or smartphone.
Make sure you film in landscape, not portrait.
You should film your audition material in a quiet space and check that the device is picking up your voice clearly.
Use natural light where possible, and soft, diffused practical lighting if required.
Your lighting source(s) should not be in shot or behind you and avoid the casting of shadows.
Try to find a plain background to film against and place your camera at eye-level, framing the shot in a mid-close (including your chest to the top of your head).
You can choose to perform looking into the lens or to a character on either side of the camera making sure your whole face is still visible.
Only use props that are essential to the performance.
Try to avoid too many takes – trust your work and enjoy the experience.
If your course includes an integrated foundation year  then you'll be developing your audition during this year of study.
We're not expecting to see a polished audition from you at this stage.
We would, however, like to get a sense of you.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/portfolio-advice/ba-animation:
For the BA (Hons) Animation degree we’re looking for 12 to 20 examples of your current work that showcases your level and range of achievements.
Your portfolio of work should demonstrate your experience, interests, aspirations, and passion for animation, and contain all or most of the following:
You’ll also need to show evidence of research and critical writing, and a written commentary about your portfolio that talks about the ideas within it.
You'll be invited to share your work with the course team at an Applicant Day.
Our Admissions Team will invite you to book your place at one of our Applicant Days after you have applied.
Your portfolio must contain your own work.
We understand that some of your portfolio may include work created in part or whole by AI.
You must acknowledge this by adding ‘AI generated’ to the relevant section(s), stating how you used AI to create images, and adding a link to the original image with the date it was created (where possible).
If you are unable to attend an Applicant Day for this course, we’re looking for up to 12 examples of your current work, in the form of images, links and documents, that showcases your level and range of achievements.
The requirements for an online portfolio are the same as what we’d expect to see if you were to share the portfolio at an Applicant Day.
The Admissions Team will email you instructions on how to upload an online portfolio.
If your course includes an integrated foundation year then you'll be developing your portfolio during your first year of study.
Therefore, we're not expecting to see a fully finalised portfolio from you at this stage.
We would, however, like to see your sketchbooks or projects you've worked on in school or college, to get a sense of your creative interests.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/portfolio-advice/ma-animation:
For MA Animation you’ll be able to upload your portfolio via the UCA Applicant Portal.
Please follow the instructions on screen to upload examples of your drawing skills, recent project work and animated films.
On each page you can upload both images and links.
Below is a suggestion of some of the things you might want to include in your portfolio for the MA Animation degree:

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/portfolio-advice/ba-architecture:
For the BA (Hons) Architecture degree we’re looking for up to 12 examples of your current work, that showcases your creative, curious, and ambitious mind.
You don’t need to create new pieces – just show us your skills and passion from your existing work.
An example would be a design or art project, presented alongside a sketchbook to describe your thoughts and processes as you created your final outcome.
If you’re not currently studying art or design, don’t worry.
You can include other content, like written work, photography or sketching to demonstrate your creative potential.
If it's not possible to bring your work in physical form, then the best thing to do is to save it (or photos of it) to a USB stick, as well as on the laptop/tablet you'll be bringing to your applicant day.
Please make sure the work on your USB stick is not password protected, as we may ask you to leave it with us so we can review your portfolio without you present.
If you are unable to attend an Applicant Day for this course , you will be asked to supply an online portfolio.
To support your work and to help us understand you as a creator, we would also like for you to write a commentary about your portfolio, which talks about your ideas, thoughts, and motivations.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/portfolio-advice/bsc-automotive-transport-design:
For the BSc (Hons) Automotive & Transport Design degree we’re looking for up to 12 examples of your current work.
You could include:
If you are unable to attend an Applicant Day for this course, you will be asked to supply an online portfolio.
This allows us to better review your portfolio without you present.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/portfolio-advice/ba-body-art:
We’re looking for enthusiastic and motivated students with a desire to learn.
For this course, we’d like to see 12 to 20 examples of your current work that showcase your level and range of achievements, organised in a way that clearly represents your artistic development to date.
Your portfolio should contain work that demonstrates the ability to experiment, analyse, reflect, and develop ideas and skills, along with evidence of resolved works.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/portfolio-advice/ba-ceramics-glass:
For BA Ceramics & Glass , we’re looking for 12 to 20 examples of your current work, that showcase your level and range of achievements.
Your portfolio can include work in any area of interest, but we would particularly like to see:

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/portfolio-advice/bsc-computer-science-practice:
For BSc Computer Science & Practice (Top-up) , you will need to demonstrate in your portfolio proficiency in Python and Java, and significant experience in the use of databases through projects, demos, code snippets and full source code for the projects.
We recommend to bring 12-20 examples of a range of your current work which best reflects your level and range of achievements.
Your portfolio should include written or visual work (still or moving image) so that we can see your interest and commitment to this subject area.
Please include a written commentary about your folio which discusses the ideas you’ve developed within your portfolio.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/portfolio-advice/ba-design-theatre-screen:
For BA (Hons) Design for Theatre & Screen w e recommend you bring 12-20 examples of a range of your current work which best reflects your level and range of achievements.
Your portfolio should show visual evidence of a range of relevant skills, and your ability to develop a project or idea.
It should include:

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/portfolio-advice/ba-digital-art:
The Admission Team will email you instructions on how to upload an online portfolio.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/portfolio-advice/ma-digital-fashion:
For the MA Digital Fashion course you’ll be able to upload your portfolio via the UCA Applicant Portal.
You can upload up to 12 files of a range of your current work which best reflects your level and range of achievements.
You can upload written work and/or visual images, links and documents.
Your work may include preparatory work or finished works.
Please include a written commentary about your folio.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/portfolio-advice/ba-fashion-atelier:
For BA Fashion Atelier , we’re looking for up to 12 to 20 examples of your current work , that showcases your level and range of achievements.
Your portfolio should include:
For this course, we’re looking for up to 12 examples of your current work , in the form of images, links and documents in one PDF file, that showcases your level and range of achievements.
If you have a website or a video to showcase, please include screenshots and URL links.
We want to see your skills and your ability to develop an idea or project, and importantly an exploration of your drawing skills using a range of media and techniques as well as colour.
The term drawing is widely interpreted and may involve the use of non-conventional materials.
We’d like to see a range of drawings that show:

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/portfolio-advice/ba-fashion-design:
For BA Fashion Design , we’re looking for up to 12 to 20 examples of your current work , that showcases your level and range of achievements.
For this course, we’re looking for up to 12 examples of your current work, in the form of images, links and documents in one PDF file, that showcases your level and range of achievements.
Your portfolio should show relevant skills and your ability to develop a project or idea.
You should include:

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/portfolio-advice/ba-fashion-image-styling:
For BA Fashion Image & Styling , we’re looking for up to 12 to 20 examples of your current work , that showcases your level and range of achievements.
Your portfolio should show relevant skills and your ability to develop a project or idea through your best coursework, final outcomes of visual research and evidence of digital media.
We’d like to see a well presented and edited selection of relevant work that shows:

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/portfolio-advice/ba-fashion-photography:
For BA Fashion Photography , we’re looking for up to 12 to 20 examples of your current work , that showcases your level and range of achievements.
Your portfolio should show relevant skills, and your ability to develop a project or idea.
We’d like to see one or two selected sketchbooks and/or supporting material plus two samples of written work.
The written work would ideally comprise an essay and another piece of any format of written document.
We don’t expect polished portfolios, but we’re looking to see what your ideas are and that you’ve put some thought and effort into the making of your images and the presentation of your portfolio.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/portfolio-advice/ba-film-production:
For our BA (Hons) Film Production and BA (Hons) Studio Practice (Filmmaking) degrees we’re looking for 12 to 20 examples of your current work that showcase your level and range of achievements.
Your work should show evidence of a range of relevant skills including your ability to develop a project or idea.
Your work should include:
This film university portfolio guide focuses on what to include, how to present your work and what admissions tutors are really looking for.
Read our full guide
You should add a 100-word description for each piece of work you upload, to confirm what audience the work was made for and how you would improve this piece of work if you made it again.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/portfolio-advice/ma-filmmaking:
If you have applied to study with us, you’ll be able to upload your portfolio via the UCA Applicant Portal.
For the MA Filmmaking course we ask for the following items:
A PDF should be provided along with the moving image links showing work that supports the filmmaking process you have engaged in.
This should include aspects, where relevant, of pre-production / production and postproduction.
This document could also include other areas of interest and experience, such as:
The supporting statement should focus on the following criteria:

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/portfolio-advice/ba-fine-art-canterbury:
For our BA (Hons) Fine Art degree in Canterbury, we’d like to see 12 to 20 examples of your current work that showcase your level and range of achievements, organised in a way that clearly represents your artistic development to date.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/portfolio-advice/ba-fine-art-farnham:
For our BA (Hons) Fine Art degree in Farnham, we’d like to see 12 to 20 examples of your current work that showcase your level and range of achievements, organised in a way that clearly represents your artistic development to date.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/portfolio-advice/undergraduate-games:
These portfolio requirements are for the following courses:
These degree courses focus on fundamental, traditional art skills and contemporary digital techniques.
Your portfolio should show us that you have the underlying skills to fulfil the demands of the course as well as demonstrating your creativity and passion for this subject area.
Your portfolio should provide an insight into your work ethic, enthusiasm and skills as an artist.
The following guidance outlines what we’d like to see in your portfolio:
The quality of work in a portfolio is more important than the quantity.
Portfolio advice from the course team
We review portfolios separately to our Applicant Days, so you don't need to bring your portfolio with you when you attend an Applicant Day.
This is to make sure you have time on the day to discover whether our course is the right one for you, and so that we have the time to review your portfolio carefully.
Instead, you should send us a digital portfolio.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/portfolio-advice/pg-games:
For the MSc Game Engineering , MA Games Design and MA Games Art degrees you can upload up to 12 files of a range of your current work which best reflects your level and range of achievements.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/portfolio-advice/ba-graphic-design:
For our BA (Hons) Graphic Design degree, we’re looking for 12 to 20 examples of your current work that showcase your level and range of achievements.
You need to make sure your portfolio shows your ability to develop a project or idea.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/portfolio-advice/msc-human-computer-interaction:
For the MSc Human Computer Interaction course we would like you upload 3-5 pages in your portfolio showcasing your utilization of computer skills within a creative field.
Highlight experiences that may have developed your creative or visual skills, problem-solving abilities, design thinking, or visual communication, even if they aren't directly connected to Human Computer Interaction.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/portfolio-advice/ba-interior-design:
For our BA (Hons) Interior Design degree, we’re looking for up to 12 examples of your current work , that showcases your creative, curious, and ambitious mind.
If you’re not currently studying art or design, don’t worry!

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/portfolio-advice/ba-jewellery-silversmithing:
For the BA (Hons) Jewellery and Silversmithing degree we’re looking for 12 to 20 examples of your current work, that showcase your level and range of achievements.
We would particularly like to see:

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/portfolio-advice/ba-make-up-hair-design:
For the BA (Hons) Make-Up & Hair Design degree, we’re looking for up to 12 to 20 examples of your current work , that showcases your level and range of achievements.
Your portfolio should represent your interests and skills and should contain selected course work and the final outcomes of visual research.
We like to see a well presented and edited selection of relevant course work that shows:

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/portfolio-advice/master-of-architecture:
For the Master of Architecture course we’re looking for up to 12 examples of your current work.
You don’t need to produce new work especially for your portfolio – just share whatever you have that showcases your skills and passion for architecture and design.
You should, however, include your best undergraduate work, together with work and/or experience showing your formal background in architecture.
Additionally, if you have them, examples of other creative activities that you feel will support your application, would be welcome.
For this course, we’re looking for up to 10 examples of your current work which best reflects your individual range of creations and ideas in one PDF file.
This can include PowerPoint slides, jpeg images, links, short 30 second audio or movie clips and text.
The content requirements for an online portfolio are the same as what we’d expect to see if you were to share the portfolio at an Applicant Day.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/portfolio-advice/ba-modelmaking:
For the BA (Hons) Modelmaking degree, we’re looking for up to 12 examples of your current work .

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/portfolio-advice/ba-music-sound-production:
Your portfolio for our BA (Hons) Music & Sound Production degree should comprise up to five minutes of original composed music or sound work.
Please include work you feel demonstrates your musical and sonic interests.
It could include a video of a performance, the music to a short film, a piece of sound design, a score, graphic score, or lead sheet of original work.
In other words, it should represent you, your interests, and your process.
We recommend you load your portfolio to one of the following platforms: Vimeo, Soundcloud, YouTube or Dropbox/Box/ GDrive links - either public or private.
If private, please remember the password.
You can bring material of any length; however, we can only guarantee that we will listen to five minutes in total.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/portfolio-advice/ba-photography:
For our BA (Hons) Photography degree, we’re looking for 12 to 20 examples of your current work that showcase your level and range of achievements.
Your portfolio should be representative of recent study and personal work.
Typically, this would include:

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/portfolio-advice/postgraduate-courses:
You can upload images, links and documents.
Each file can contain a range of images (for example a PDF file could contain 20 images).
You can upload less than 12 files if you so wish.
Your work may include:

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/portfolio-advice/ba-product-design:
For the BA (Hons) Product Design degree we’re looking for up to 12 examples of your current work that showcase your level and range of achievements.
Your portfolio can include any area of interest, but we would particularly like to see:

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/portfolio-advice/ba-studio-practice-fashion:
For our BA (Hons) Studio Practice (Fashion Design) , BA (Hons) Studio Practice (Fashion Image & Styling) and BA (Hons) Studio Practice (Make-up & Hair Design) (top-up) courses we’re looking for up to 12 to 20 examples of your current work that showcases your level and range of achievements.
Your portfolio should show relevant skills and your ability to develop a project or idea and should include:

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/portfolio-advice/ba-studio-practice-fine-art:
For our BA (Hons) Studio Practice (Fine Art) (top-up) course, we’d like to see 12 to 20 examples of your current work that showcase your level and range of achievements, organised in a way that presents a clear visual representation of your artistic development to date.
Please include a range of artworks, such as project and self-directed work and sketchbooks, photographic documentation of large-scale work and an example of essay writing.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/portfolio-advice/ba-studio-practice-graphic-design-illustration:
For our BA (Hons) Studio Practice (Graphic Design) (top-up) and BA (Hons) Studio Practice (Illustration) (top-up) course s we’re looking for 12 to 20 examples of your current work, that showcase your level and range of achievements.
Your work may include free-hand sketches or finished works; notes, sketchbooks and other preparatory work would be welcome.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/portfolio-advice/ba-studio-practice-interior-design:
For our BA (Hons) Studio Practice (Interior Design) (top-up) course, we’re looking for up to 12 examples of your current work , that showcases your level and range of achievements.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/portfolio-advice/ba-studio-practice-product-design:
For our BA (Hons) Studio Practice (Product Design) degree we’re looking for 12 to 20 examples of your current work that showcase your level and range of achievements.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/portfolio-advice/ba-studio-practice-visual-communication:
For this BA (Hons) Studio Practice (Visual Communication) (top-up) degree, we’re looking for 12 to 20 examples of your current work that showcase your creative potential, from sketchbooks through to completed project work.
Your portfolio should be carefully edited to show a range of work that illustrates the breadth of your creative skills.
You could include typography, text and image, photographic and illustrative work.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/portfolio-advice/ba-television-production:
For our BA (Hons) Television Production course, we’re looking for 12 to 20 examples of your current work, that showcases your level and range of achievements.
Your portfolio should show your skills, and your ability to develop a project or idea.
We would like you to include examples of your creative work you have completed individually and/or in groups.
This could include any of the following:
You can bring work in physical form, as well as on a laptop/tablet.
There will be the facility to show web links on one of our computers, but please make sure websites are publicly accessible because there may not be time to troubleshoot login issues.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/portfolio-advice/ba-textiles:
For our BA (Hons) Textiles degree we’re looking for up to 12 to 20 examples of your current work that showcases your level and range of achievements.
What we look for overall in a portfolio is considered work that shows your individual art and design potential and expresses your creative self.
As well as showing us your final outcomes, which could be broad and diverse (from fashion, textiles, fine art, materials, product, photography, graphics or other) please include:

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/portfolio-advice/ba-visual-communication:
For our BA (Hons) Visual Communication degree we’re looking for 12 to 20 examples of your current work that showcase your creative potential, from sketchbooks through to completed project work.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/portfolio-advice/ba-visual-effects:
For our BA (Hons) Visual Effects degree we’re looking for 12 to 20 examples of your current work that showcases your level and range of achievements.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/study-at-uca/scholarships:
Here you'll find everything you need to know for your level of study - read on to find out whether you could be eligible.
For information on the financial support available to our students please visit our fees and financial support section .
Explore the tables below to find details of our scholarships and fee discounts, if you could be eligible and how to apply.
Please note: the scholarships on this page are applicable for the 2025/26 academic year.
If you are awarded more than one UCA scholarship or bursary, you will receive the fee discount or award highest in value, as only one fee discount can be applied.
These scholarships are available for the 2025/26 academic year.
Completed application forms should be returned to: CampusLifeCanterbury@uca.ac.uk .
£500 bursary to all students from a partner school or college who enrol onto any undergraduate course and pay the full fee per academic year.
For more details about this scholarship please contact out admissions team: admissions@uca.ac.uk
Full fee waiver for the duration of the course offered to any Category A Grenfell survivors.
To apply and for more details about this scholarship please contact our admissions team: admissions@uca.ac.uk
A fee discount off the first-year tuition fee is available to eligible UCA students who match the following criteria:
The discount available depends on the grade you achieved in your undergraduate course at UCA:
You do not need to apply.
The discount will automatically be deducted from your fees before you enrol.
The fee discount will be split over two years for part-time courses.
For PhD research courses, the progression discount depends on the grade you achieved in your undergraduate course at UCA:
This discount is off the fees of all years of the course you are progressing to and is available for graduates of all UCA undergraduate degrees who graduated within the previous five years of starting your PhD course.
We have a range of fee discounts, also known as scholarships, available to our current UCA students from international countries who would like to continue studying with us and International alumni who graduated from UCA within the last five years.
You do not need to apply .
If you are progressing from an International Foundation in Creative Practices to an undergraduate course, you can get a progression discount of £1,500 off the fees for the first year of the course you are progressing to.
For postgraduate taught courses, the progression discount depends on the grade you achieved in your undergraduate course at UCA:
This discount is off the fees of the first year of the course you are progressing to and is available for graduates of all UCA undergraduate degrees who graduated within the previous five years of starting your postgraduate course.
If you are progressing from the Integrated International Pre-Masters to an postgraduate course, you can get a progression discount of £1,500 off the fees for the first year of the course you are progressing to.
For PhD research courses, the progression discount depends on the grade you achieved in your postgraduate course at UCA:
This discount is off the fees of every year of the course you are progressing to and is available for graduates of all UCA postgraduate degrees who graduated within the previous five years of starting your PhD course.
We have a number of fee discounts, also known as scholarships , available to new students from international countries who would like study with us.
You do not need to apply for the scholarships listed in this section.
They will be applied automatically for anyone who is eligible once you have applied.
Saïd Foundation scholarships
The Saïd Foundation awards fully-funded scholarships to outstanding individuals from Syria, Jordan, Lebanon and Palestine who are looking to study for a master’s degree in the UK.
The Saïd Foundation has offered educational scholarships since 1984.
This scholarships programme aims to empower people through educational opportunities and is targeted towards individuals who demonstrate the potential to become leaders and drivers of change within our target countries of Syria, Jordan, Lebanon and Palestine.
Scholarships are offered for one-year master’s degree courses at our UK partner universities.
Applications in all subject areas are considered but candidates should demonstrate how their chosen course will help them to contribute towards the development of the region.
Who can apply?
To be considered for a Saïd Foundation scholarship, candidates should:
• Hold Syrian, Jordanian, Lebanese or Palestinian nationality and be permanently resident in one of these countries.
The Foundation will consider Syrians residing elsewhere due to current circumstances in the country.
• Hold an undergraduate degree equivalent to a UK 2:1 or higher (or be in the final year of an undergraduate degree)
• Have work and/or voluntary experience relevant to their field of study and a clear career plan
• Demonstrate leadership potential in their chosen field
Candidates must also:
• Apply for a course at one of the Foundation’s UK partner universities
• Meet the Foundation’s English language requirement
• Submit all required documentation
Please go to the Saïd Foundation website www.saidfoundation.org/apply for more information and to apply online.
Candidates will be asked to submit a number of supporting documents with their application, including educational transcripts/certificates, a CV and three recent references, so please read the guidance carefully before starting your application.
JuventudEsGto Scholarship Residents of State of Guanajuato, Mexico, with an offer to study at postgraduate taught (Masters) and research levels (PHD) at the UCA are eligible for this scholarship.
Amount £4,000 scholarship per student for our postgraduate taught programs (Masters) and £4,000 scholarship yearly on our postgraduate research programs (PHD) against UCA’s standard International tuition fees for the duration of the JuventudEsGto-UCA Scholarship.
Who is qualified to apply?
Residents of State of Guanajuato, Mexico, wishing to study at postgraduate taught and research levels.
For more information Please visit JuventudEsGto for more information
UCA is proud to offer the GEMS for Life Scholarship, awarding £4,500 to GEMS students applying to study an undergraduate course at UCA.
Scholarship value: £4,500 for the first academic year.
Eligibility: The scholarship is available to applicants who have completed their studies at a GEMS high school , received an offer to study an undergraduate course at UCA and completed the scholarship application before the deposit deadline .
How to Apply: To apply for the scholarship, please complete the online application form as soon as possible.
For further details, please contact us at internationalscholarship@uca.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/international/visas-and-immigration/graduate-visa:
The Graduate route enables international students to stay in the UK to work or look for work after the successful completion of their studies for 2 years, or 3 years for PhD students.
Graduates can undertake any work in the UK, including paid and unpaid employment, self-employment and engaging in business or any professional activity.
Successful Graduate route applicants cannot take employment as a professional sportsperson or coach.
There are no minimum salary requirements for the Graduate route.
Study is permitted, except when a student sponsor and course would meet conditions of the student route.
For example, if the applicant wanted to study undergraduate, graduate or post graduate courses, this would not be allowed.
The Graduate route does not require sponsorship from any organisation, and you cannot extend your Graduate visa.
You will need to meet all the following requirements to make a valid application for the Graduate route visa:
Gov.uk Graduate Visa Guide
Please note: the Graduate visa is not a route to settlement.
For the purpose of applying for the Graduate visa you are considered to have successfully completed your degree once you have received your final results and official notification from UCA.
You need to have completed the degree for which your Tier 4/Student visa was granted, unless it is a change permitted under UKVI policy.
You will need to have successfully completed the entirety of your course in the UK as a student, apart from permitted study abroad programs or remote study due to COVID-19, for which specific concessions have been agreed.
Attending your graduation ceremony is not a requirement for the Graduate route application.
If you do not complete all required assessments (such as a final submission, resit or exam) by the original end date of your visa - or have any unpaid or outstanding fees - you may not have your award confirmed by the board of examiners.
In this situation you should contact Campus Registry at Canterbury, Epsom or Farnham as you may not be eligible to apply under the Graduate route in these circumstances.
Foundation courses, g raduate diplomas and o ther non-degree awarding qualifications are not eligible.
When applying for the Graduate route you will need to consider how much time you spent in the UK to complete your studies and if it meets the minimum study in the UK requirement.
If your course was more than 12 months you should have studied in the UK for at least 12 months.
If the course was 12 months or less you must have studied in the UK for the duration of the course.
In some cases, students may not have been able to complete their studies in one period of student permission.
This may be because of compelling or compassionate circumstances, for example sickness or maternity leave.
Because of this, students may need to interrupt their chosen course of study and complete at a later date, with the appropriate UCA permission.
E ach of these study periods would count toward their minimum time in the UK.
If they collectively met the minimum 12 months in the UK study period the student could make a Graduate route application.
If a PhD student started the course in the UK, but subsequently went abroad to conduct research as part of their qualification, the student may have their sponsorship withdrawn or may not be granted sponsorship for the overseas portion of their course.
If the student subsequently returned to the UK to successfully complete their qualification (for example to conduct additional research or write up a thesis) and the total length of time studying in the UK meets the minimum requirement, the student would qualify to apply for the Graduate route.
When you have completed your course you will need to wait until you have received email confirmation from the UCA Immigration Compliance & Advice Team.
The email will confirm that UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) have been notified of your successful course completion.
Once this stage has been completed and you have been notified you will be able to apply for the Graduate route visa online .
Dependents (the applicant's partner or children) can apply to stay as dependants on a Graduate visa if they were considered as dependants during the applicant's Student/Tier 4 visa.
Children born in the UK during a Student/Tier 4 visa can also apply.
Other types of dependants are not permitted on this route.
Gov.uk dependants guide
The current application fee for a Graduate visa is £880.
There is an additional healthcare surcharge (usually £1,035 per year you are in the UK).
Currently a two-year Graduate route visa would have a healthcare surcharge of £2,070.
Follow this link for more information about paying for UK healthcare as part of your immigration application .
You may be eligible for a refund if you get a job in public sector healthcare after you have paid the healthcare surcharge.
When you make your application, you will need to provide:
The CAS reference number is issued when you are initially offered a place on your course and before you applied for your Student visa.
You might be asked to provide:
To make an application you will need to create a UK Visas and Immigration account on the .
gov.uk website .
You will then be able to start your online application for a Graduate visa.
You can save and continue with your application at a later time.
UKVI will need to verify your nationality and identity.
You can submit a scan of your BRP or passport using the UK Immigration: ID Check’ app .
If you are unable to use the ID app to scan your passport or BRP you will need to visit a UK Visa and Citizenship Application Services (UKVCAS) service point for fingerprinting and photographing.
Once you submit your application you must not travel outside the UK and common travel area (Ireland, the Channel Islands, or the Isle of Man).
If you decide to travel, your application will be withdrawn automatically.
Once you’ve applied online, proved your identity and provided your documents, you’ll usually get a decision on your visa within eight weeks.
If your application is approved you will be notified by UKVI and you will be able to prove your right to live and work in the UK.
You can request UKVI to cancel your application, but your fee will only be refunded if UKVI has not started processing your application.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/blogs/say-hallyu-to-ucas-k-pop-dancers:
Meet the talented members of one of our most popular student societies – the UCASU K-Pop dance club.
15 May 2023
Whether you’re a Stay, a Blink, an ARMY or an NCTzen, you’ll know that the power of K-Pop transcends language, age, geography, and gender.
And, for the members of UCASU’s K-Pop Dance Club, it’s fitness, too!
Above, K-Pop dance club presidents Eugenie Biron, Yuting Zhuang and Caitlin Visser at the front teaching the club a new dance.
This fledgling club was formed in 2019, went on hiatus during COVID and, thanks to two students – Mariah Thyes and Daria-Alexandria Croitoru – who restarted the club, it’s now getting back to the business of learning choreography and filming routines, all for fun and the love of the genre.
The Farnham branch has around 40 members, and is run by three students who share presidential duties – Eugenie Biron, Yuting Zhuang and Caitlin Visser.
It’s so popular, it won Best Club at the annual UCASU awards last year – and it won again this year!
It was also nominated for Best Club or Society Event of the Year for its Hallyu party.
We went along to one of the club’s meetings at UCA Farnham to meet Eugenie and the other members, to find out more.
As they were starting the process of learning a new routine – to Rover by Kai – Eugenie told us: “The students who created the club did it because of the love and passion they had for K-Pop.
They probably wanted to bring people together, around the same passion: music, dance and Korean culture.
“K-Pop is good at bringing people together.
The number of communities that have been created and the amount of people I've met thanks to K-Pop is insane.
It’s like an outlet; because not only is it true art - with a great variety of music, a powerful use of dance, music videos that explore filmmaking and editing, an intelligent use of languages and more - but it is also something that saves you from loneliness.
You meet new people - that is, artists from another part of the world as well as friends that you can see every day.
Being in this community is like discovering another part of yourself.”
Adarsha Rai has been a member from the start and has carried on attending despite graduating from Acting in 2020.
“I love K-Pop – it’s catchy, and the people here made me stay.
I like to prove that I can actually do it, and there’s video proof!”
Ellie Preece, a second-year Graphic Design student, added: “For me it was about meeting people who like the same things as I do, and getting some exercise as well.
It’s given me confidence.”
Audrey Davison, a final year Acting and Performance student, said: “I love music in general, and I love the genre.
We just clicked – and we always have fun.”
You can become a member just by showing up to a session – they meet weekly in W40 at UCA Farnham – or you can sign up on the UCASU website .
And you can find out more about the club’s activities at @ucakpopdanceclub - and if you want your club or society featured on our blog, just email us at communications@uca.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/international/countries/algeria:
We are delighted you are considering joining UCA to study!
Here, you will be able to set your creativity free, learn a wealth of transferable skills, get unique industry insight and be prepared for a successful career in the creative industries.
This page should give you all the information you need to know about applying to UCA from your country, and more about life at UCA too.
And, if you have any questions, see the Get In Touch section to call or email your country’s specialist contact.
If you do not have UK qualifications, we will consider equivalent qualifications from Algeria for entry onto our Foundation, Bachelor’s and Master’s courses.
If you are not sure if you have the necessary qualifications please contact internationaladmissions@uca.ac.uk .
UCA offers a number of fee discounts, also known as scholarships , specific to students from overseas.
These discounts are available to new international students and international alumni, who have graduated within the last three years.
To find out more about what is available, whether you are eligible, and how to apply, visit our scholarships page .
UCA works with a number of overseas representatives who can help you make an application to UCA.
If you are considering using the services of one of these companies, we encourage you to refer to the British Council's guide to choosing an education agent and UCA’s Agent Complaint Procedure .
Take a look around our campuses and facilities
Please let the country manager know if you have any questions or need help with your application!
Senior Regional Recruitment Manager – Africa, Middle East (MEA) & LATAM Email: seyi.agboola@uca.ac.uk Phone/WhatsApp: +44(0)7929 864566

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/international/countries/australia:
If you do not have UK qualifications, we will consider equivalent qualifications from Australia for entry onto our Foundation, Bachelor’s and Master’s courses.
Our dedicated team of experts are ready to answer your questions:
Admissions enquiries: Phone: +44 (0) 1252 892 838 Email: internationaladmissions@uca.ac.uk
General enquiries: Phone: +44 (0) 1252 892 883 Email: international@uca.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/international/countries/austria:
If you do not have UK qualifications, we will consider equivalent qualifications from Austria for entry onto our Foundation, Bachelor’s and Master’s courses.
Senior Recruitment Manager Email: Trudy.Li@uca.ac.uk Phone/WhatsApp: +44 (0)792 677 186 WeChat ID: 51892726

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/international/countries/bahrain:
If you do not have UK qualifications, we will consider equivalent qualifications from Bahrain for entry onto our Foundation, Bachelor’s and Master’s courses.
Senior International Officer - Middle East and North Africa Email: viktoriya.khadjieva@uca.ac.uk Phone/WhatsApp: +44(0)7891 125958

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/international/countries/bangladesh:
If you do not have UK qualifications, we will consider equivalent qualifications from Bangladesh for entry onto our Foundation, Bachelor’s and Master’s courses.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/international/countries/belgium:
If you do not have UK qualifications, we will consider equivalent qualifications from Belgium for entry onto our Foundation, Bachelor’s and Master’s courses.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/international/countries/bhutan:
If you do not have UK qualifications, we will consider equivalent qualifications from Bhutan for entry onto our Foundation, Bachelor’s and Master’s courses.
Our dedicated team is here to help!
If you have any questions please contact one of the team members listed below:

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/international/countries/brunei:
If you do not have UK qualifications, we will consider equivalent qualifications from Brunei for entry onto our Foundation, Bachelor’s and Master’s courses.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/international/countries/bulgaria:
If you do not have UK qualifications, we will consider equivalent qualifications from Bulgaria for entry onto our Foundation, Bachelor’s and Master’s courses.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/international/countries/cambodia:
If you do not have UK qualifications, we will consider equivalent qualifications from Cambodia for entry onto our Foundation, Bachelor’s and Master’s courses.

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/international/countries/canada:
If you do not have UK qualifications, we will consider equivalent qualifications from Canada for entry onto our Foundation, Bachelor’s and Master’s courses.
Federal and Provincial government loans may be offered to students studying at the University for the Creative Arts.
For more details, we recommend you visit the Canadian Student Loan website or email our loans team: americanloans@uca.ac.uk .
The institutional code for UCA is PUKM .
Senior International Officer (UKI,EU&NA) Email: elle.zhang@uca.ac.uk Mobile/WhatsApp: +44 (0)7972735455

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/international/countries/china:
入读 UCA
英国创意艺术大学（简称 UCA）欢迎中国学生入读预科、本科和研究生课程。平均每年有500名中国学生就读 UCA。
作为国际学生在此求学
作为欧洲地区最大型的创意艺术专业类大学之一，我校在全球享负盛名。详细了解国际学生为何能凭借 UCA 学历在创意行业取得领先优势。
为何在英国学习?
如果您的理想是在创意行业大展拳脚，那么来英国接受创意艺术专业教育就是奠定基础的最佳途径。这是因为:
Four Chinese students talk about studying at UCA
If you do not have UK qualifications, we will consider equivalent qualifications from China for entry onto our Foundation, Bachelor’s and Master’s courses.
UCA is pleased to work with a number of education institutions in China:

New sentences found on https://uca.ac.uk/international/countries/croatia:
If you do not have UK qualifications, we will consider equivalent qualifications from Croatia for entry onto our Foundation, Bachelor’s and Master’s courses.