# Site: https://www.uclan.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 500
# --------

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk:
Start university this September
Clearing 2025 is open.
Apply now to secure your place on a course starting this September.
Call us or apply online .
Monday to Friday 9am - 5pm (excluding bank holidays)
Call us on 01772 830777
Apply online
You currently have no saved courses.
You can start by exploring our courses.
Secure your place now for September.
Call us on 01772 830777 or apply online .
Phone lines are open Monday to Friday from 9am - 5pm.
The University of Central Lancashire has risen 9 places in the 2025 Daily Mail University Guide.
It has placed the University 78th out of 128 institutions.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/clearing:
UCAS Clearing is now open.
You can call our friendly team or apply online.
We're open Monday to Friday from 9am - 5pm.
Interested in studying with us this September?
Use the blue icon in the bottom right corner to chat live with lecturers from a variety of subject areas.
Our academics will be available on Thursday 28 August, Wednesday 3 and Thursday 4 September.
Want to start university this September?
We're here to support you every step of the way on your Clearing journey.
You can call our friendly team on 01772 830777 at any time during our opening hours (excluding weekends and bank holidays):
Clearing is your chance to secure a place for September if:
Got your results?
Contact us now and we could make you an offer today.
We'll just need details of your Level 3 qualifications - usually A Levels, BTECs or equivalent.
Find out why we're the best choice for Clearing 2025 .
Clearing is now open.
If you have your results, you could get an offer today.
Apply online or by telephone.
Online
By phone
Want a step-by-step guide to applying through Clearing?
Visit our how Clearing works webpage .
Student success stories through UCAS Clearing
Your Clearing questions answered
Didn't get the grades you expected or rethinking your uni choice?
Call us on 01772 830777 or apply online.
Our Achieve+ programme helps you succeed at university.
You can access a comprehensive support package and a wide range of resources to help you reach your potential.
If you are deaf, hard of hearing or a sign language user, you can email our BSL interpreters and we can arrange a video call to support you through the Clearing process.
Clearing is for applicants who've received their exam results but don't yet have a confirmed place at university.
The Clearing process helps match applicants to university places that haven't been filled after the main application deadlines have passed.
Find out more about how Clearing works .
Already applied through Clearing and wondering what happens next?
Visit our Clearing next steps webpage.
UCAS Extra is an option that allows you to add more choices to your UCAS application.
The free service is for anyone who has currently used all five choices on their application, and holds offers for none of them.
UCAS Extra can help you secure a place at a university before the Clearing period.
To find out more, you can visit our UCAS Extra page .
If your grades were better than you expected, you can choose to decline your place and release yourself into Clearing.
You can do this by using the 'decline your place' button in your UCAS application.
You're able to do this from 5 July if you are holding a firm unconditional place.
Entry requirements for courses during Clearing can vary.
We offer a variety of routes into university study including courses with a foundation year.
We encourage you to call us to explore your options.
If you already have your qualifications, you can view our UCAS Points Calculator to work out how many UCAS points you have.
If you don't quite meet the UCAS points for your course, don't worry as there are many different options available to you.
Clearing will officially close on UCAS on Monday 20 October 2025.
Most university Clearing deadlines are before the UCAS deadline, usually around the end of September.
Your UCAS ID is a 10 digit number assigned to you when you apply through UCAS.
You'll need it to identify your application when you speak to universities, and it's unique to you.
You can find it in emails you receive from UCAS, especially the first one your receive after creating an account.
You can also check your UCAS Hub dashboard.
Clearing is not open for international students.
Our international application deadline is Sunday 10 August 2025.
To apply for 2025 entry and for more information, please visit our international students webpage .
Visit our Clearing frequently asked questions page .
You can also contact us directly by calling +44 (0)1772 830777 or emailing the Course Enquiries Team .
View virtual tours, discover our facilities and watch on-demand events.
Get helpful guidance on the topics that matter most to you.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/undergraduate:
The University of Central Lancashire is a great place to study an undergraduate degree in the North West.
Choosing a university is a big decision.
We'll help find the course that’s right for you.
Thinking about university?
Come and see us at an Open Day or book a campus tour to explore our facilities.
Discover what uni life is really like.
We have a broad range of subjects and undergraduate degree programmes to choose from.
From law and sciences, to arts and healthcare - there will be something to suit you.
Browse our wide range of subject areas and take the first step towards your future career.
If you're still stuck, read our guide on what degree should I do?
Let us help you with the information below.
Once you've decided on a course you can also check your eligibility with our UCAS points calculator .
Considering university and concerned about finances?
We're the most affordable uni in the country according to The Times (2023).
Discover how to manage your finances and explore the support available.
Undergraduate degrees are typically for students starting out in university life for the first time.
They will normally be your first degree and follow on from completing your A Levels, BTECs, Level 3 NVQs or T Levels.
Once you’ve graduated, you might also decide to explore a subject in more depth by taking on a postgraduate degree.
We work closely with leading employers across the North West to secure work experience opportunities for our students.
It’s the reason why 95 percent of our graduates are in work or further education within six months * .
* HESA Employment Performance Indicator 2018 (full-time, home-domiciled, first degree leavers)
An undergraduate degree usually takes about three years to complete if you're studying full-time, or five to six years if you're studying part-time.
Some students opt to take a foundation year before they start their full undergraduate degree.
Our courses with an integrated foundation year are designed for students who have the ability to study for a degree, but don’t have the necessary formal qualifications to directly enter their chosen honours degree programme.
It involves an extra year of study which will help you get the skills you need.
Choosing what to study at university can be overwhelming.
It's a big decision that can have a huge impact on your life and career.
We have a handy guide to help you decide what degree to study .
We have a broad range of subjects and courses at various levels.
Across our four campuses we have something to suit everyone.
Learn more about what subjects we have to offer .
There are plenty of excellent reasons to go to university to study an undergraduate degree.
Not only will you become an expert at your chosen subject, you will have unforgettable experiences along the way.
You'll make lots of new friends and meet people from all over the world.
It's also a great way to better your career prospects and increase your earning potential .
University is more than lectures, classes and assignment.
It's a unique opportunity to get to know a diverse range of people and cultures.
You'll develop independence and confidence and try new activities.
As an undergraduate student, you’ll enjoy the perfect mix of academic study and a range of opportunities that will set you up for a lifetime of success.
Discover why you should study an undergraduate degree at UCLan .
Studying an undergraduate degree opens up a world of employment opportunities for you.
You could study a vocational course such as nursing, or keep your options open with a humanities degree.
At UCLan you will gain skills and experience that employers value considerably.
Plus, your earning potential increases once you graduate.
This means you could earn on average 30% more in your lifetime than a non-graduate (Institute of Fiscal Studies) .
Have you already decided on your career path?
Are you still considering your options and what subject areas interest you?
Whatever stage you’re at, we’ve got advice and guidance to help.
Our courses have a strong focus on employability and our Careers Team are here to support you every step of the way.
If you're a student wishing to study an undergraduate degree full-time with us, you should make your application through the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS) anytime from early September for the following year.
Application deadlines through UCAS vary for different courses:
We accept applications for a lot of courses throughout the year, but some of our more popular courses may stop accepting applications after the equal consideration deadline in January.
Find out more information on how to apply for an undergraduate course , including entry requirements and contextual admissions.
Preparing for an undergraduate degree in the UK involves a few key steps to ensure a smooth transition.
Start by researching the courses that interest you, paying close attention to entry requirements and deadlines.
You'll need to complete your UCAS application, so gather all necessary documents, including academic transcripts and references.
Finally, make sure your finances are in order, including tuition fees, living expenses, and any available scholarships or financial aid.
With careful planning and preparation, you'll be ready to embark on your undergraduate journey.
We know you've got some difficult decisions to make about the university that's right for you.
Looking for an unforgettable student experience?
UCLan is the perfect destination.
Gain friends for life, learn about yourself and make memories that will last forever.
Have you done your research and chosen the perfect degree course?
Then it’s time to start your application and personal statement.
Depending on whether you’re planning to study full or part-time, the application process might be different.
We’ll be with you every step of the way.
Have you been out of study for a while?
Do you lack the formal qualifications to apply for a degree course?
Whatever your age or background university is still an option for you.
Find out how we can help you to find the best route to start your university journey.
Want to know what uni life is really like but can't get to campus?
View facilities, accommodation and more on our virtual experience platform.
Looking to start a degree but don’t have the right qualifications?
We have a wide range of courses with a foundation year.
There’s something special about living in university accommodation, especially if it’s your first time away from home.
With a wide range of accommodation options, we'll help you find the right place for you.
We pride ourselves on our excellent student support services, we offer expert advice and support with health and wellbeing, inclusive support, financial advice and much more.
Invest in your future with us.
Find out about tuition fees and various financial support options like scholarships and bursaries.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/degree-apprenticeships:
Our range of Higher and Degree Apprenticeships allow you to gain an academic qualification or degree whilst you work.
Higher and Degree Apprenticeships allow you to study for a qualification whilst you work.
You will need to have a job that is relevant to your course.
Your employer will also need to agree to support your apprenticeship.
Our Apprenticeship Matching Service can help you to find a job.
A Degree Apprenticeship allows you to graduate with a degree.
A Higher Apprenticeship will grant you a qualification equal to a foundation degree.
You'll mix study with real-world experience, gaining the skills to support your career.
You will not have to pay a student loan, as your employer pays for you.
You will also earn a wage as you learn.
We develop our courses with leading businesses across the North West, meeting government standards.
First, you need to secure a relevant role for at least 30 contracted hours a week.
This could be the current role that you're in.
The role must be relevant to the apprenticeship, because you will be spending four days a week in the workplace.
If you are not currently in a relevant role, you will need to start applying.
If you're struggling to find a position, you can register for our Apprenticeship Matching Service .
This can match you with employers who want to recruit an apprentice.
Explore our current vacancies .
Once you've secured a relevant role, the next step is to ask your line manager about the Degree Apprenticeship you are interested in.
All Degree Apprenticeships are funded by employers, so it's essential to get their support.
Your employer may receive funds from the government.
If you have got a role through our Apprenticeship Matching Service, the employer will be recruiting specifically for an apprentice.
That means they will definitely support your Degree Apprenticeship.
Once you've got your employer’s support, they will need to contact our Business Development Team.
Our team will answer any questions they have and begin the onboarding process.
If you've got a job through our Apprenticeship Matching Service, we will already be working closely with your employer.
That means the onboarding process can begin.
There are a few things we'll need from you and your employer before you can start your Degree Apprenticeship.
Our team will be in touch to let you know what you need to do.
You can read our onboarding guide to find out more.
Once you've completed the onboarding, you can start your Degree Apprenticeship.
You'll normally spend 4 days a week in work and 1 day a week studying.
If you don't already have a relevant job, you can sign up to our Apprenticeship Matching Service.
We'll help you find relevant employment with a business that will support you through your Degree Apprenticeship.
We have a range of Degree Apprenticeships to help you boost your career and gain professional experience.
Lucy tells us what it's like to study a Degree Apprenticeship
For information regarding apprenticeship subcontracting, please visit our apprenticeships page .
Degree Apprenticeships are different to standard undergraduate degrees.
You must be employed for at least 30 hours a week in a relevant role.
You will usually spend 4 days in the workplace and 1 day in university.
Your employer will fund your Degree Apprenticeship.
Applying for a Degree Apprenticeship is slightly different to applying for a standard undergraduate degree.
To enrol in a Degree Apprenticeship, you must be employed in a relevant role for at least 30 hours a week before you start.
If you are already employed in a relevant role, you will need to speak to your employer and find out whether they would support you through the apprenticeship.
If you're not employed in a relevant role, you may be interested in our Apprenticeship Matching Service .
The Apprenticeship Matching Service aims to connect businesses who are looking for an apprentice, and learners who are searching for a vacancy.
You can see our current apprenticeship vacancies here.
To find out more, you can read our how to apply for a degree apprenticeship guide .
Entry requirements for a Degree Apprenticeship can range from 96-128 UCAS points, depending on the course.
Applicants with non-standard qualifications will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
This can include relevant work experience or qualifications in other subject areas.
Please note that you must have a grade C/4 or equivalent in Maths and English to apply for any Degree Apprenticeship.
Your salary will be set by your employer.
That means it can vary from employer to employer.
You must be paid at least the National Minimum Wage for your age bracket.
Upon successful completion of the Degree Apprenticeship, you will be awarded an honours degree.
That means you have the same degree as someone who completed it over full-time study.
However, you will also have industry experience and real-world skills.
This is highly attractive to employers.
With a Degree Apprenticeship, you get the best of both worlds.
You will have completed a degree and you will have gained valuable industry experience.
This is attractive to future employers.
A Degree Apprenticeship is demanding but rewarding.
It allows you to earn a full-time wage whilst you study.
Your fees will also be paid by your employer.
During your Degree Apprenticeship, you can apply what you study to the real world of work.
Gain in-demand skills and progress in your professional career.
A Degree Apprenticeship can be tailored to you.
They are flexible and can focus on what you want to gain from your degree and work experience.
You will enjoy the best of both worlds.
You'll be entitled to paid time off and all the benefits of being a student.
That includes access to our state-of-the-art facilities and student discounts.
Yes, you can fail a Degree Apprenticeship just like any degree.
However, we have a great range of student support services to try and prevent this.
You will have access to all of our support services just like a full-time student.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/postgraduate:
Looking to enhance your career, develop your knowledge or pursue your passion?
Take your next step with one of our postgraduate degrees.
Find out more about the different types of postgraduate study, or what your options are as an international student.
You can also explore our accommodation, chat to a tutor or a student, and discover our wide range of student support.
Our postgraduate taught courses are designed with flexibility in mind - ensuring that you have every opportunity to achieve success.
Many of our postgraduate taught courses can offer:
For further information, find your course page and review what options are available for you.
If you’re a recent graduate looking to enhance your job prospects or an experienced professional looking to further your development we can help you take your career to new heights.
Postgraduate degrees are a perfect opportunity to enhance your existing career skills, increase your earning potential or even move into a new field.
You can also choose to study a postgraduate research degree to enter the world of academia for your career.
Our students are entitled to full careers support .
We'll always be here to help you with your next big step in the world of work.
A graduate is someone who has successfully completed an undergraduate degree, such as a Bachelor of Arts (BA) or a Bachelor of Science (BSc).
A postgraduate qualification is undertaken after a bachelors degree.
It offers a more advanced, in-depth level of study.
This includes a master's degree or doctorate.
A postgraduate student is someone who is currently studying a postgraduate qualification.
A postgraduate degree is an advanced qualification it can help you to gain new skills, advance your career or pursue a specific area of interest.
You'll usually need to be a graduate before you can apply for a postgraduate course.
So you'll have already completed an undergraduate degree such as a Bachelor of Arts (BA) or Bachelor of Science (BSc).
A master’s degree is the most common type of postgraduate degree, typically taking one year to complete full-time or two to three years part-time.
On successful completion, you will be awarded a master’s-level qualification, such as the Master of Arts (MA) or the Master of Science (MSc).
There are two main types of postgraduate degrees at master’s level – postgraduate taught (PGT) courses and postgraduate research (PGR) courses.
The first is similar in format to what you’ll of experienced at undergraduate level.
With your studies consisting of a programme of taught sessions as well as a mixture of assignments, independent study and exams.
The second involves working on a single in-depth research project and for those considering a career in academia/research.
A master’s degree is the most common type of postgraduate qualification.
When you graduate you'll be awarded a master’s-level award such as a Master of Arts (MA) or a Master of Science (MSc).
A master’s degree gives you the chance to explore a subject at an advanced level, with a view to gaining new skills and advancing your career.
It’s shorter than an undergraduate degree but offers more specialist, in-depth content.
Most students who undertake a master’s degree will have graduated with a bachelor’s degree.
Other types include Postgraduate Certificates (PGCert) and Postgraduate Diplomas (PGDip), which are shorter qualifications.
They are equivalent to one-third and two-thirds of a master’s degree respectively.
There are also other postgraduate qualifications that are more advanced than master’s degrees.
These are known as doctorate-level qualifications, the most popular of which is the Doctor of Philosophy (PhD).
Part-time study can vary between courses.
We understand that a lot of our students need flexibility to achieve a proper work/life balance.
As such, many of our postgraduate courses offer a part time option alongside a full time option.
If you'd like to know if you can study your chosen course part time, you can find your course page and see if a part time option is available.
To apply for one of our postgraduate taught programmes, you will need to complete our postgraduate online application form.
Before you get started, you will need a few details to hand to complete your application.
This includes your personal details, any transcript information from your undergraduate study and referee information.
You may also be required to write a personal statement to show evidence of a prior interest in the subject or profession.
If you are experiencing any issues with completing the online application form, please contact our Admissions team:
pgapplications@uclan.ac.uk +44(0)1772 892444
A master’s degree can be a great way of continuing your professional development.
You can gain new skills and knowledge which will enable you to advance your career.
With many of our courses, you can opt to study full-time, part-time or online.
Which means you can fit your studies around your work and family commitments.
It’s a significant investment in your future.
But research has shown that individuals with a postgraduate degree tend to earn more than individuals with only an undergraduate degree over their working lifetime.
Many of our courses are accredited and approved by leading professional bodies.
This enables you to gain industry recognition as well as a degree.
Your qualification could count towards registration with a professional organisation.
And even let you gain extra qualifications alongside your degree.
Helping to boost your career prospects and earning potential.
You may be able to apply for a Postgraduate Master’s Loan from the Government to help with the costs of study.
You’ll only need to start repaying the loan when your income is over a certain amount.
If you’re a UK student who gained your undergraduate degree with us, you may be eligible for our Alumni Loyalty Discount which entitles you to 20% off your tuition fees.
Read these helpful articles for further information:
For UK students we offer an Alumni Loyalty Discount of 20% to UCLan award holders.
This discount applies to both postgraduate taught and postgraduate research degrees.
International students are not eligible for the loyalty discount.
You can view the entry requirements for your desired course on its webpage.
Find your course to view its respective entry requirements.
You will need an undergraduate degree for most postgraduate programmes.
You should check the entry requirements for your desired postgraduate programme in any case.
Some postgraduate programmes in advanced subjects, such as education or medicine, will have further requirements.
This could involve industry experience, certain A Levels or further qualifications from training.
These will always be detailed in a course's entry requirements.
Flexible admissions policy
Our flexible admissions policy means that if you have any previous experience in your chosen field of study, we'll account for it as part of your application.
Perfect for if you're already working in your chosen career and looking to develop your skills further.
You might also be able to use your previous or existing experience as an Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) .
If you’re a UK student you may be able to apply for a Postgraduate Master’s Loan from the Government to help you with course fees and living costs.
You can get extra support if you have a disability.
For more information visit the GOV.UK website.
You may also be entitled to extra support if you’re experiencing financial hardship or difficult personal circumstances.
Or if you have financially dependent children or caring responsibilities.
Take a look at our scholarships and bursaries.
Visit our fees and finance pages for our latest tuition fees and payment options.
Visit our fees and finance page for full details.
The cost of a postgraduate taught (PGT) master’s degree varies by course and study mode, so it is always worth checking the fees on the course you want to study.
There may be extra costs involved (if you undertake a placement, for instance, or for the purchase of course-related equipment).
You'll be told about any additional costs before you start the course.
If you’re a part-time UK student you can opt to pay for the individual modules you study, it's worth checking on the course page how much each module costs.
If you’re a UK student who gained your undergraduate degree with us, you may be eligible for our Alumni Loyalty Discount , which entitles you to 20% off your tuition fees.
If you’re planning to study a postgraduate research course take a look at our ‘How much will your postgraduate research cost?’ page.
Our postgraduate students are entitled to all our student support offerings, this includes:
Much more support is available and further details can be found in our student support hub.
For postgraduate taught (PGT) courses we accept applications from UK students all year round.
Visit our how to apply for a postgraduate course page for more information.
If you’re an international student you may need to apply by a specific deadline.
The deadline for January 2023 entry is 1 December 2022.
The deadline for September 2023 entry is 1 July 2023.
Visit our how to apply to university in the UK page for more information.
If you’re applying for a postgraduate research (PGR) course take a look at our How to apply for postgraduate research page.
Application deadlines vary depending on whether you wish to start in January, March or September.
When are offers for postgraduate courses made?
Your application will be reviewed by University academic colleagues to assess your suitability for the course.
We’ll take into account your skills, knowledge and work experience to date.
As well as your current career aspirations and motivations for undertaking the course.
We'll do this using the personal statement you submit alongside your application.
For some courses, you may be invited to an interview or asked to submit a portfolio of your work to help us reach a decision.
We’ll be in touch soon to inform you of our decision.
In the meantime, you'll receive emails from us containing useful information about the postgraduate student experience, accommodation and how to enrol.
If you have any questions about a postgraduate taught course, you can contact:
Prospective student enquiries Call: +44 (0)1772 892400 Complete the prospective student enquiries form
If you've already applied, or have questions about your application, you can contact:
Postgraduate applications team Call: +44 (0)1772 892444 Email the postgraduate applications team
For further information, please visit the contact us page .

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/postgraduate-research:
Study a research degree with us and you’ll join a vibrant and world-class research environment.
Get in touch with a research tutor to explore your options.
A PhD will allow you to study your chosen research topic in-depth.
You'll build on your existing knowledge and develop valuable transferable skills.
We're here to support you during your studies.
You’ll receive regular supervision and training to help you succeed in your independent study.
In some cases, you can undertake periods of fieldwork in the UK or overseas.
We offer alternative start dates for your research degree, starting in September, January or March.
We offer a range of postgraduate research options to suit researchers at all levels.
Read our guide to postgraduate research degrees and choose the research degree that's right for you.
Undertaking a research degree is a large commitment.
Before starting your studies, you should consider some things:
Research degrees differ from other types of courses.
The end date depends on you submitting a thesis and the outcome of the viva voce examination.
The expected timelines for each award are below:
Scroll or swipe on small screens to see all table columns
Award
Time for examination to be completed and the award to be conferred The timescales vary depending on the result of the examination.
The minimum time is around three months.
Most students average around six months.
Our Graduate Research School supports the postgraduate research environment and culture.
The school delivers training, as well as hosts events and activities.
PhD student Elisa tells us about her experience as a research student
If you're a UK student with a previous award from us you may be eligible to receive 20% tuition fee discount.
Before you apply or submit your own proposal it’s a good idea to explore your ideas with one of our research degree tutors.
Email us and we'll put you in contact with the relevant tutor.
Or email one of the research degree tutors directly, using the details below.
Art/Design/Fashion
Performance/Music
Journalism/Media
Accounting and Finance/Economics/Business/Marketing
Operations Management/Logistics & Supply Chain Management/Human Resource Management/Tourism and Hospitality
Professional Doctorate (DBA) Enquiries
Astrophysics/Physics/Mathematics
Building Services/Fire Engineering
Construction Management/Facilities Management/Procurement/Economics
Electrical Engineering/Digital Signal and Image Processing
Electronics/Mechatronics/Tribotronics
Energy and Environment
Human Computer Interaction/Computing
Mechanical Engineering/Simulation/Oil and Gas (and Senior RDT)
Social Policy/Social Work/Professional Doctorate enquiries
Ruth Parkes
Gender-based Violence/Ethnic minorities/Social Policy
Chinyere Ajayi
RDT and Course Leader for Professional Doctorate (DProf) Professional Practice Community & Social Care: Policy & Practice enquiries
Applied Health/Biomechanics
Sport and Cultural Studies
Jess Macbeth
Sport and Exercise/Food Nutritional Sciences
Sport Business/Sports Coaching
Sport Studies/PE/Outdoors
Institute of Coaching and Performance
Professional Doctorate in Elite Performance (DProf) enquiries
Professional Doctorate (DProf) in Psychotherapy
School Lead for PhDs (including all research degree awards)
Archaeology and Forensic Science
Criminology and Policing
Law
Professional Doctorate in Criminal Justice (DProf) enquiries
Dentistry
Medicine
Jorge Garcia-Lara
Professional Doctorate (DProf) in Clinical Studies enquiries
Applied Chemistry/Material Science
Pharmacy and Biomedical Sciences
Cognitive and Affective/Psychology/Cognitive Neuroscience/Psychobiology/Social Psychology/Health Psychology
Forensic Psychology
Humanities, Language & Global Studies and the Doctorate in Education (EdD)
Health Visiting/Midwifery
Nursing/Philosophy/Mental Health
Professional Doctorate in Health (DProf) enquiries
Veterinary Medicine
Discover our range of University research areas to tailor your degree towards.
Our Research and Knowledge Exchange institutes enhance the quality of our research environment and create more opportunities to achieve world-leading impact through their activities.
Research of national and international excellence is at the heart of academic life at the University of Central Lancashire.
On completion of your research degree you should be in a very strong position for pursuing your chosen career.
If you're ready to start your research degree, you'll find details of the application process on the next few pages.
It is important that you know how you are going to fund your studies for the duration of your research degree, and ensure you have the resources to pay all your fees, costs associated with your research programme and your living expenses.
Most studentship funding is for PhD places.
Schemes vary and may provide either full cover or partial funding for tuition fees, and some may also include a maintenance grant.
Please check individual awards for eligibility.
Current research students are not eligible to apply for our research studentships.
Showcasing a breadth of current research projects from our postgraduate students.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/cpd:
Enhance your knowledge and skills through our Continuing Professional Development (CPD) short courses.
These courses are an excellent way to support your career and professional development.
Our CPD short courses are available across a range of specialist areas.
Some courses are accredited, which means that you can work towards a University qualification.
Other courses are standalone programmes.
These focus on specific learning outcomes or developing your skillset.
Ranging from multi-day to year-long courses.
You can study at our campus locations in Preston, Burnley or online.
Our bespoke courses enable you to upskill your workforce without recruiting new staff.
If you are an employer and can’t find a course to suit your business needs, we can create bespoke programmes for you.
Management Our management courses are tailored to develop senior leaders and managers within your organization.
In addition to business management courses that help with continuity planning, we also provide CPD courses for managing volunteers and in healthcare and social care settings.
Nursing and healthcare Develop your skills in a specific area of healthcare with our range of health and nursing short courses.
These include top-up courses specialising in community nursing, through to critical care, palliative care and general practice.
Health and safety Protect your business with a range of health and safety short courses , from general health and safety qualifications through to fire prevention.
A CPD course is a learning course that professionals undertake to enhance their skills and knowledge within their field of work.
CPD courses are designed to contribute to continuing professional development.
CPD is a requirement for many professions to ensure they maintain and develop their knowledge.
CPD courses include:
The content of CPD courses will be relevant to a specific profession or industry.
Completing these courses helps professionals to meet regulatory requirements.
CPD courses are often supported by your employer who may also fund your CPD activity.
Short courses provide structured learning experiences on specific topics or subjects.
Short courses can vary in duration, ranging from a few days to several weeks.
They may or may not be directly related to professional development.
They can be taken by anyone interested in the subject matter, regardless of their professional background.
CPD is typically undertaken across various professional industries and sectors.
However, anyone who is committed to advancing their skills, knowledge, and expertise within their field can participate in CPD activities.
This includes those working in:
So whether you're a doctor, teacher, engineer, accountant, lawyer, or in any other profession, CPD offers opportunities to continually learn, develop, and enhance your skills.
Many employers also encourage or require employees to engage in CPD as part of their professional development.
Engaging in CPD offers several benefits:
The specific costs of CPD courses can vary depending on factors such as the duration, format, and content of the course.
Some employers may book group CPD training which can be priced according to the package.
Additionally, prices may be subject to change over time.
Taking part in CPD is an investment in your professional development, enabling you to continuously grow, adapt, and excel in your career.
If you have a question about the cost of one of our CPD courses please contact us .
Each of our CPD course pages contain a how to apply section, they may also offer a course leader contact for course specific enquiries.
For general information on courses or if you need help obtaining an application form you can email our CPD Team.
For general enquiries related to studying with us please email our Course Enquiries Team or call +44 (0) 1772 892400 .
For general information on our CPD, short courses or networking events please email our CPD Team.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/courses/a-z:
Welcome to our course A-Z, check out our course listings to discover what we have to offer.
We have a fantastic range of courses from undergraduate and postgraduate degrees to continued professional development (CPD) and degree apprenticeships.
Browse our course A-Z page listings to see what we offer at every course level.
Whether you’re just starting your journey, or about to commence your research degree, we have something to suit everyone.
Check out our wide range of subjects to see what best suits you.
Many of our courses offer valuable experience in industry, the chance to study abroad, field trips and opportunities to contribute to research.
You’ll learn from expert academics and take advantage of our specialist facilities.
We’ll support you throughout your time with us.
Our dedicated teams are here to help with every aspect of student life, always ready to guide, advise and encourage you on your journey to success.
Our main campus is based in Preston in the heart of the North West, the city with a big personality.
We have a diverse campus network with additional sites in Burnley, Westlakes and Cyprus, find out more about our campuses and partners .
If you've been out of education for many years, our free six-week short courses will help you make the transition to university study.
Refresh your skills and gain the knowledge you need to progress onto one of our foundation year programmes or even a full degree.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/subjects:
We have many subjects and courses at foundation, undergraduate and postgraduate level.
Whether you’re starting your journey, or thinking about a research degree, we have something to suit everyone.
Discover what we have to offer at our UK campuses.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/open-days:
Sign up for an event today and discover what university life is really like.
An Open Day gives you the chance to visit a campus in person.
You can get a feel for the place and meet current students and staff.
It's the perfect way to get a taste of university life.
Whether you're worried about your results, reconsidering your university choice, or applying late, we’re here to help.
UCLan Open Days
Explore Preston with our exclusive discounts that can be redeemed in local restaurants, cafés and hotels.
It's never too early to start thinking about your options.
Open Days, virtual events and workshops take place throughout the year so it is always worth checking event listings.
Most Open Days are held between June and November.
You can go to as many university Open Days as you like.
Usually, people will visit around four or five because you can only apply for up to five universities on UCAS .
But if you want to go to as many as possible, or if you only want to visit one or two universities, then that is absolutely fine too.
Most people who attend an Open Day bring someone with them.
This can be parents, friends or other family.
It's nice to have company on your visit and to have some support - deciding which university to go to is a big decision.
Everything at our Open Days is set up for you and your guests.
This means they can attend subject talks, tasters sessions and access all the fun things with you throughout the day.
Don't worry if you are attending alone though - there are many people who attend without company.
We will be on hand to help you throughout the day and you'll feel supported every step of the way.
For our Preston Campus Open Days we are offering an Open Day travel bursary for students from outside of the North West.
If you're a fully registered attendee (prospective student) living outside of the North West, and you check-in at the event, you are eligible to receive the bursary to help offset your travel costs.
After you have attended the open day, we will send you an email with the instructions on how to claim the bursary.
It will be sent to the email address you registered to attend the open day.
The bursary will be paid directly into your bank account.
Open Days are a really good opportunity for you to get a feel for the place you might be studying at.
After all, you'll be spending a lot of time there so you need to make sure you like it.
You might not know what subject you want to study and an Open Day can help you decide this.
It is also a chance to speak to tutors and get a taste of the classes you might have.
And, you can speak to real students and find out what life is really like at university.
Visit our Open Day frequently asked questions page .
You can also contact us directly by emailing Course Enquiries or calling +44 (0) 1772 892400 .
Discover what university life is like in your own time by viewing our virtual guided tours.
If you'd like to visit in person, book a campus tour with one of our friendly students.
When you can't visit in person our postgraduate tutor virtual chat sessions are on hand to to help.
Need some further information?
You can order your undergraduate prospectus, along with a copy of our international guide.
Check out our course listings to discover what courses we have to offer including undergraduate, postgraduate, research, degree apprenticeships and CPD short courses.
If you have any questions about studying with us or visiting one of our Open Days, we'd be happy to help.
You can email our Course Enquiries Team or call +44 (0) 1772 892400 .
Inclusive Support Services are ready to help you access events and tours, offering:
For support on the day or whilst studying with us email our Inclusive Support Team .

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/study/fees-and-finance:
Find out about tuition fees and financial support options.
From August 2025, UK/home undergraduate tuition fees will rise to £9,535 per year.
Maintenance loans will also increase by 3.1%.
Repayments will still be based on earnings, not the amount you borrow.
Discover our fees and learn how to apply for financial aid.
Whether you're a full-time or part-time student, you can explore various funding options.
With loans, grants, and bursaries, there's plenty of help available.
Higher and Degree Apprenticeships are a great way to earn a salary whilst gaining a degree.
Apprenticeships are funded by your employer and the government so you can graduate debt-free.
You will also earn a salary whilst studying as well as gaining a qualification.
Many of our CPD and short courses are individually priced, the amount can be found listed on the CPD course page under the section 'fees and funding’.
We also provide a contact email for inquiries on each CPD course.
Many employers will help fund, or part-fund, opportunities which benefit both you and the company you work for.
Your tuition fees will depend on which course you choose to study and how.
Please check the individual course page that you are interested in for specific details about the fees for that programme.
We review our fees every year and you can find more information on our  fees and finance webpages:
Many universities offer additional financial support packages for students from low-income households.
Or those experiencing financial hardship.
This includes bursaries, which don’t have to be paid back.
For details of other government support available, including childcare grant, parental learning allowances, NHS bursaries, social work bursaries, and help with costs of travel to UK clinical placements, visit gov.uk/student-finance
There are a number of financial support options available to students studying at UCLan.
We have a team of knowledgeable financial support staff who can help you to access the right support for your circumstances.
This includes:
There are non-repayable grants for some students with additional financial costs.
There is short term support available for those who are struggling to cover their basic day to day living costs.
You'll also find bespoke support for anyone who has experienced a one off or unexpected financial emergency.
We have a number of financial learning tools available to help you to manage your money as a student.
We work closely with Blackbullion who provide an online platform with financial support modules, articles and workshops.
These will help you prepare for study, manage your money while studying and then to prepare for your future beyond university.
For more information about the support available, please email the Student Support Team .
Current students can access more information on the Student Hub .
We have a wide range of scholarships and bursaries available for those who demonstrate academic and personal excellence.
Please note, scholarships and bursaries count towards your tuition fees only.
For more information, please visit our scholarships and bursaries page .
You can also find country or region specific information on the relevant country or region page .
If you have more questions about fees and funding, you can visit our frequently asked questions page .
Or you can email the Student Support Team .

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/order-a-prospectus:
Complete the form below to get a copy of our latest prospectus.
You can get all of the information you need to know about our courses online .
However, if you prefer paper to pixels we'll happily send you a printed version.
Please complete the below form to place your order.
If you have any other enquiries, please get in touch .
Here at The University of Central Lancashire we take your data and your privacy very seriously and we'll treat it with the utmost care and respect.
By providing your details above, the University will process your personal data in compliance with current data protection legislation and only process for the purpose collected, unless there is a lawful basis to do so.
If you would like more detailed information relating to this or your rights, or who to contact if you have any concerns about the use of your personal data, please go to the privacy policy published on our website .

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/study/how-to-apply:
Take the next step towards your future career and apply to study one of our courses.
When you're ready to apply for university, use the guidance below to help with your application.
Want to study a full-time undergraduate degree with us?
You can make your application through the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS) from the start of September for the following year.
If you want to study part-time, you can apply directly to us using our online application portal .
You’ve done your research, chatted in-depth to our academic tutors and you’re now ready to take your next step.
Here’s all the information and guidance you need to apply for a postgraduate degree.
New postgraduate research degree students can start in September, January and March and applications should be received a minimum of two months prior to commencing your studies.
We provide a warm welcome students from all over the world to our UK campuses at Preston, Burnley and Westlakes.
Join our diverse, cultural community by using our handy guide on how to apply, sort your visa and get settled in.
Considering applying for a Degree Apprenticeship?
If you're working in a relevant job role, speak to your employer as they may be willing to support you through the Degree Apprenticeship.
Are you interested in applying for one of our professional development, short courses or joining one of our CPD events?
You'll find the details of how to apply or book on the relevant course page.
Alternatively, contact Course Enquiries on +44 (0) 1772 892400 or email the team .
Applying to study medicine (MBBS) or veterinary medicine (BVMS) ?
Discover everything you need to know, from personal statements to preparing for your interview.
From asking where to find information to dealing with personal difficulties, we’ve got you covered.
Our dedicated teams are here to help.
If you're a current student, visit our Student Support Hub.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/study/global-opportunities:
Discover the world and meet exciting new people by studying or working abroad as part of our global opportunities programme.
Graduates who spend time abroad tend to be in high demand from employers, due to the unique sets of skills they gain during their time abroad.
Choosing to work or study abroad shows a great deal of initiative and confidence.
It also shows you have a willingness to get out of your comfort zone and gain independence.
These are qualities that employers value in their future workforce.
During your time overseas you'll meet lots of new people who might become your friends for life.
Having friends around the world is priceless.
You'll compare cultures, places, music and food — sometimes even in another language.
If you're trying to learn a new language, having a fluent friend can be a huge help with your progression.
Having friends in other countries can create fantastic opportunities for your career too.
Extending your networks globally can also help you find opportunities to work abroad.
One of the most rewarding aspects of working or studying overseas is getting to enjoy entirely new cultures and ways of life.
Try new foods, discover new music and get involved with local activities.
Explore what life is like in a new place, and expand your knowledge of the world beyond home.
Having experience of different cultures will complement your studies.
And, it can help boost your employability.
New destinations provide opportunities for trying out a new way of life, a chance which can be difficult to find in your day-to-day life at home.
If you're ready to see the world, and want to make the most of it, then exploring our global opportunities is a great first step.
We'll always be here to help you get to where you need to go - to ensure that you have the best time no matter what you end up doing.
Experience a new way of learning, enhance your career, make friends for life - and have fun whilst doing it all.
Working or studying abroad is an unforgettable experience.
You can email our friendly team for further information.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/study/return-to-study:
Thinking about starting a degree after taking time out of education?
There are many routes into university you can take and we'll help you every step of the way.
If you are considering returning to study after a break in education, you probably have a lot of questions.
Please fill in the form below and our friendly team will be in touch.
Around two thirds of our students are over 21 years old when they start their degree.
You'll be amongst plenty of other mature students at UCLan going through the same experience.
If you need help creating your personal statement our team can help.
Make your application stand out from the crowd.
We provide full support for armed forces personnel and their families.
From course funding and settling in to university, to finding suitable training and careers advice.
We can help you make that step back to civilian life.
Returning to study as a mature student can help you start a new career, improve your job prospects or expand your knowledge.
Find out how we can support you.
Get a feel for our campuses and check out the facilities on our campus tours.
Our campus tours are led by current students and offer a great way to have an informal look around.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/visit/university-exhibitions:
If you're struggling to choose a university, a higher education exhibition will help you decide.
Find out which exhibitions we'll be at this year.
If you've been unable to attend a university exhibition this year you can still take a guided tour of our campus and visit us throughout the year.
You need to register in advance for any of the university exhibitions you wish to attend via the following links:
UCAS
UK Universities
Don’t forget to bring your ticket on the day, as you can scan it to receive extra information from your favourite universities.
Decide which universities you’d really like to talk to and draw up a list of questions in advance.
Your questions shouldn’t just be academic – it’s just as important to find out about things like facilities and nightlife.
Download the prospectuses of the universities you particularly like the look of before you go, or request a copy in the post.
Doing this saves you the burden of carrying a heavy bag home.
Don’t just gather leaflets – talk to people on the stands.
It’s what they’re there for and it will make your decision-making process much easier.
Wear comfortable shoes and bring a strong bag.
The exhibitions are huge and you can bet that the universities you want to see will be at different ends of the venue.
You’ll be bombarded with free gifts and leaflets, so a sturdy bag is a must.
University exhibitions, also known as UCAS fairs, are events where you can explore many university stands under one roof.
Higher education providers and employers attend ready to meet students.
They take place at various locations across the country.
University staff and representatives will be there to answer all your questions.
Some universities bring their students to these fairs.
This means you can get academic advice and a good picture of student life at your chosen institution.
University exhibitions take place from February to September.
This gives you plenty of time to make your mind up before sending off your application.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/campuses:
The University of Central Lancashire has a large and diverse network of over 42,000 students and staff.
We have UK campus locations in Preston, Burnley and Westlakes and also a satellite campus in Larnaca, Cyprus.
We also offer apprenticeships alongside our partner Training 2000, and have numerous strategic partners both in the UK and overseas, which provide opportunities to students throughout the world to engage in Higher Education.
The University of Central Lancashire provides high quality programmes providing opportunities to students throughout the world to engage in UK Higher Education.
Can't make it onto campus but want to explore the university?
Discover our course facilities, social spaces, accommodation and city hot spots on our virtual tour.
Our main Preston Campus is right at the heart of the city, just minutes away from its vibrant shopping centre, attractions and nightlife.
It’s home to a thriving international community of over 27,000 students and staff.
At our Burnley Campus, students get to experience the best of both worlds – a fantastic learning experience together with incredible opportunities to socialise, unwind and embark on the odd adventure in-between your studies.
Our Westlakes Campus in Cumbria offers global opportunities in stunning surroundings.
If you’re looking for access to the great outdoors, you’ll love studying at our Westlakes Campus.
Our overseas campus in Cyprus offers you the perfect combination of study and sunshine.
Enjoy a sun-kissed Mediterranean lifestyle and a truly international student experience.
Our London base leads the way in modern learning.
Learn through our contemporary educational model designed exclusively for adult learners.
Here you can expand your knowledge and skills while maintaining a flexible lifestyle.
In 2017 we joined forces with the Blackburn-based educational charity Training 2000.
Training 2000 is one of the largest Group Training Associations in the UK.
With this strategic alliance we are set to become the leading provider of apprenticeships at all levels in the North West.
We have links with 19 further education colleges and specialist training organisations.
These partners deliver a wide range of courses, allowing you to study locally for their higher education award.
For over 20 years, we have been operating overseas delivering high quality collaborative programmes through our international partnership network.
We are proud of our diverse network of international partners overseas and values its reputation as a successful partnership institution.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/study/partners:
At the University of Central Lancashire, we have been welcoming partner students for more than 30 years.
On this page, you'll find a variety of information for both current and potential partner students.
At our partner institutions , you can study a range of our courses.
From HNC/Ds, foundation degrees, teacher training programmes, full honours degrees and top-up courses.
As well as having access to the facilities at your chosen partner you'll also be able to enjoy a variety of facilities and services.
Studying with a partner means you can study for a higher education award at a location local to you.
Some partnership courses allow you to begin your studies within a partner institution and complete them here with us.
While others are delivered entirely by our partners.
As a partner student, you might have the opportunity to progress with us to top up your programme to undergraduate level or to study for a higher qualification.
For example, you can top up a HNC/D or a foundation degree to an honours degree at the University.
Here you can find information about studying at the University of Central Lancashire through one of our partners.
This includes registration, enrolment and our welcome activities.
Also included are details of the facilities and services you can access as a student with us, all the way through to graduation.
Find out about the opportunities available to complete your studies at the University of Central Lancashire.
Discover the UK institutions we work with that form our partnership network.
You can find all the useful information for our UK partner students on our webpages .
On this webpage you’ll find an induction video.
You'll also find details about enrolment , Welcome Week and the Students' Union .
As well as this, we have some student profiles and testimonials.
You can read about the experiences of some of the students who’ve studied a UCLan course through our various UK partners.
To enquire about becoming a UK partner with the University of Central Lancashire, please complete our partnership form .
Once you’ve submitted the form, your request will be sent through to the UK Partnerships Team.
They will then review the request and contact you about the next stages.
You can find a list of all the current UK partners that offer University of Central Lancashire awards on our partner institution webpages .
You’ll be able to view a profile page for each of our UK partners and get an insight into the provision we offer through them.
Sign up for a University of Central Lancashire Open Day event today to chat to our students and discover your future.
As a member of our Alumni Network, you are always part of the University of Central Lancashire.
Whether it be careers advice, library and gym facilities or business support, we’re here to remain a service to you throughout your graduate life.
We have a large and diverse campus network, with campus locations in Preston, Burnley, Westlakes (Cumbria) and Cyprus.
We also have numerous other partners both in the UK and abroad.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/legal/student-policies:
As a university, our commitment to you is important and we therefore need regulations, policies and codes of conduct, which are designed to protect and maintain both academic quality and your rights and responsibilities as students of our University.
You need to be aware of their existence and their relevance to you and your studies.
Alongside this, you may also have other separate arrangements with external organisations, such as the Student Loans Company, which you will need to ensure that you fully understand.
Our academic regulations ensure that all students are treated in a fair way – from the moment you are accepted on to a course at the university, through to assessments and the qualification that you are awarded.
Our general policies, handbooks and regulations aim to provide students with a safe and supportive environment in which to study.
It is important that as a student, you know that these policies exist and their relevance to you as a student
As a research student it is important that you are aware of our policies, procedures, regulations and codes of practice that are applicable regardless of whether you’re a new or returning student.
These aim to provide you with a safe and supportive environment in which to study and conduct your research.
In line with the requirements of the Office for Students, the University’s Student Protection Plan outlines the measures in place within the University to protect the interests of students and prospective students.
In line with the requirements of the Office for Students, the University’s Student Transfer Policy outlines the necessary institutional arrangements that enable a student (taught or research) to transfer in a manner that facilitates the continuation and quality of study for all students whenever a transfer occurs.
Our Degree Outcomes Statement provides assurance that we meet the Expectations of the Quality Code for Higher Education that relate to protecting the value of qualifications and as a regulated provider, that we meet the Office for Students ongoing conditions of registration on academic standards (B4 and B5).
At the University of Central Lancashire the governing body ensures that there are adequate and effective arrangements in place to provide transparency about value for money for students and for taxpayers.
You can find out more about how the University finances work, where our income comes from, what we spend our money on and how a typical undergraduate student fee is used.
Our Student Charter has been developed alongside and in collaboration with your Students’ Union.
It outlines our academic community culture and the principles we uphold for both the University, the Student’s Union and you.
The policies outlined on this site apply to students studying at our UCLan campuses.
Some of our policies are applicable to students studying at one of our UK partner institutions , whereas some are not relevant to partnership students.
Please contact the partner institution directly for further information on the student policies applicable to the relevant partner institution.
We hope that you are happy with your University experience.
However, if you’ve got cause concern, please do get in touch .
In line with the requirements of the Office for Students, the University’s Home Office sponsor licence can be viewed on the Government Register of Licensed Student sponsors
In addition to the above formal policies which form part of your student contract, there are a range of general policies aimed at supporting you during your time at the University of Central Lancashire and these are available via our Student Support site once you enrol with us.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/accommodation:
We guarantee a room in halls, on campus, for all new full-time students at our Preston Campus.
Starting at only £87 per week, our on campus accommodation is almost half the national average.
Our halls start at only £87 per week and we're the most affordable university in the country according to The Times (2023).
From £123 - £157
Ribble Hall (premium)
Living on campus means joining a thriving community, with a range of events in halls from the moment you move in.
You’ll feel at home from day one with our friendly on-site Residences Team on hand to help you settle into your new home.
You’ll also enjoy a wide range of activities and extra support, including:
All of our halls are a short walk from main campus buildings, the library and study spots .
Check out the interactive maps to see how close everything is.
Burnley student accommodation tour with Abygail
My favourite locations in Preston by Alice
Make friends for life, explore your potential and discover new passions.
Find out what to expect from your student experience.
Want to say hello to your future course mates before you join the University of Central Lancashire?
Our closed Facebook groups give you the opportunity to get to know each other before you start.
There's lots of financial support available to help make university affordable.
Find out more about the help and resources available.
Need help on your application for university accommodation?
Our team are here to support you every step of the way.
When you accept a room offer with us, you need to agree to a legally binding contract for a period of time.
The standard dates for these contracts are below.
When you receive your room offer the dates of the contract will be clear.
You will also be able to see the full price before you decide whether to accept the room offer.
Longer term contracts are available for students who are studying specific courses.
These include dentistry or dental hygiene and dental therapy .
We also offer contracts for students who are studying at the University for one semester.
Please email us for more information .
The conditions of residence form part of a contractual agreement between you (the student) and us (UCLan).
It is important you read this so you are aware of what the University expects of you whilst you are living in our halls.
If you fail to follow the conditions of residence you can be fined, transferred to other accommodation or even have your accommodation contract terminated.
Please note, any accommodation offers are separate to your study offers.
Additional fees apply.
The University complies with the requirements of the Universities UK Student Accommodation Code of Practice.
Further details can be found on the SAC website .
We have several rooms on campus which are adapted for students with additional needs.
You will get extra consideration if you have a disability or medical condition that requires you to live on campus.
Our adaptations include:
If you have need help with daily living, personal assistants may be accommodated.
You will need to have had a social services assessment to identify this.
If they are in University accommodation you must sign their contract on their behalf.
The Accommodation Team work closely with our colleagues in the Inclusive Support Team .
We will ensure that your on campus experience is adapted to suit your needs.
If you've got questions about living in halls or private accommodation, get in touch with our teams and we'll be able to help.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/student-life:
Find out what student life is like at the University of Central Lancashire.
Make new friends, explore your interests and discover new passions.
You will be taught by academic staff who are leading experts in their field.
Our courses are designed to equip you with the knowledge and skills you need to take your next steps in life.
Our state-of-the-art facilities and excellent academic support will help you achieve your goals.
Get a feel for our campus and meet current students and staff.
University is a unique time in your life when you get to meet new people and experience new things.
At UCLan, we have lots of exciting social events and clubs to enrich your time here.
And there's lots to do around the city, whether you fancy a shopping trip or a night out.
Students from StudentCrowd reviewed cost of living, eating out, night life, shopping and public transport in their cities.
Preston is the most affordable student city (The Times, 2023).
There are lots of things that we do to help students with the cost of living, including financial support.
Find out more about the support available.
There are times when we could all do with a helping hand.
Our student support team provide mental health and wellbeing support, as well as a whole host of other services.
We have drop-in sessions every weekday, with no appointment needed.
We've got campuses in Preston and Burnley.
Find out what it's like to live in both, with student tips on the best places to study, eat and go out.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/support:
At the University of Central Lancashire, we’ll be here for you no matter what.
We pride ourselves on our excellent, second-to-none student support services.
Our Student Hub has more information about the support you can get based on your personal needs and circumstances.
Our dedicated teams are here to help with every aspect of student life.
This could be anything from cost of living, health and wellbeing, disability or dyslexia support.
Whatever you need help with, we're here for you.
Where to find our student support teams
Our student support teams operate across our Preston, Burnley and Westlakes campuses.
If you're a current student, visit our Student Hub to find out opening hours.
As you'll be studying with us for several years, you may face occasional challenges.
Often this may not even relate to your studies.
We'll be with you all the way to provide key information and support.
Volunteering offers real-world experience, builds skills, and boosts your job prospects.
It’s flexible, accessible, and you don't always need specific skills - just a positive attitude.
We can help you get volunteering experience during your studies.
We believe everyone should be able to access university study.
No matter your background, we’re always here to help you build the skills and confidence you need to succeed.
Our library services provide an inspirational and diverse learning environment.
Our library teams will support you through online and physical environments.
While you’re studying with us, we want you to feel safe and secure at all times.
The Security Team watch over our Preston Campus to make it a safe place for all students.
They are on duty 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/welcome:
Starting university soon?
We look forward to welcoming new and returning students to our campuses.
Take a look at our welcome pages and discover what you need to do before starting university.
There’s a lot to remember when starting university, but we’re here to help.
Use our checklist and the links below to make sure you're ready to join us.
Beyond lectures and seminars you'll have the opportunity to explore the other side of university life.
Discover clubs, societies and make friends for life through the Students' Union.
How much do I REALLY spend as a student?
#CostOfLiving series
We've teamed up with Umii, an app which matches you with other UCLan students based on your interests, course and societies.
It makes it super easy to connect, start conversations and develop friendships together.
For those already here, we hope you are settled into university life and enjoying your time with us.
If you have any questions about timetabling, student finance or anything else, our team is here to help you.
Call us on +44 (0)1772 891828 .
We recommend that you read our arrival guidance before travelling to the UK.
This includes advice on what to bring, what to expect at the airport, and traveling to campus.
Browse our new students' most frequently asked questions.
If you can't find an answer to your question here, then do please contact us and we will do our very best to help.
On this page, you'll find a variety of information that will help you to make the most of your time studying with us.
From information on how to register right through to welcome week.
Please be aware that throughout Welcome Week there will be official event photography/filming taking place for marketing and promotional purposes.
These images/footage may be used in both on and offline publications, public relations and advertising, such as social media, brochures, information leaflets, adverts, posters and other formats for the promotion of the University and of University courses at its partner institutions.
If, for whatever reason, you or a member of your group, does not wish to be photographed, please make yourself known at one of the event help desks on arrival or to the photographer in that area.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/applicants:
Congratulations on your offer.
We're excited to have you with us at the University of Central Lancashire.
If you're an offer holder, then joining our Facebook community is a great way to start meeting fellow students.
You'll be able to make friends with people from your course or accommodation before you've even started.
Become part of a thriving, welcoming halls community with regular events from the minute you arrive.
Plus, there's a dedicated on-site residences team located on-site to support you throughout your time with us.
Get a feel for student life on campus and in the city.
From sports clubs and societies to student pubs and shopping, there's something for everyone.
Our teams are dedicated to getting you any support you might need.
We have a wide range of support available for many different circumstances, and we're always happy to lend a hand.
If you have any questions about your application, our friendly Admissions Team are here for you.
Email our team
Telephone: +44 (0)1772 892444

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/graduation:
Celebrate the success and achievements of our students at our graduation ceremonies.
Our 2025 winter graduation ceremonies will take place between Tuesday 9 and Thursday 11 December 2025.
We've created a graduation playlist so you can watch our ceremonies on catch-up.
To help you plan for graduation, we've explained below about what to expect on the day.
Graduation is likely to be very busy so we recommend you arrive two hours before your ceremony start time.
Please note, the below is relevant to our previous ceremonies and may be subject to change for any upcoming graduation ceremonies.
Always check back closer to the time of your upcoming graduation ceremony.
Once you arrive on the Preston Campus, please make your way to the Engineering Innovation Centre on Corporation Street to check in.
Your guests will be directed down Kendal Steet to the Foster Building, where they can wait for you.
We do this to keep queues at check in to a minimum.
If you intend to arrive by car, please plan your parking arrangements in advance and be aware of their proximity to the campus.
Please remember that we don’t have space in the University car parks – just for blue badge holders.
There are several public car parks in Preston so take a look at the venue and parking section below where would work best for you.
We have a designated drop off point and limited accessible parking spaces for blue badge holders on Hope Street car park.
When you arrive at the Engineering Innovation Centre to check-in, there may be a queue.
This might mean you’ll need to stand outside for a little while, but we’ll get you through the queue as quickly as possible.
Check the weather before the day and dress appropriately as we may experience wet and icy weather.
Please note that only graduates will register and get their cap and gown.
Then, you will then meet your guests in another building.
When you reach the front of the queue, you will be shown to the right check in desk, which are organised alphabetically by surname.
Here, you will receive an envelope which includes your name card and wristbands for the ceremony hall.
For security reasons it is important that anyone entering the ceremony hall has their wristband on before entry.
Don’t forget to collect live-stream tickets for any additional guests.
After checking in, you be directed to gowning (lift access is available).
You may need to wait a bit here, but the team will be working as fast as they can.
There will be two queues, one for those who have pre-ordered their gown and one for those who are paying on the day.
Don’t forget pre-ordered gowns are cheaper than ordering them on the day.
The gowning team will support you in getting your gown and cap on and there will be mirrors at each dressing station.
Once you have your gown you will exit the Engineering Innovation Centre and be directed to official photography and pre-ceremony celebration.
Once you’ve checked in and collected your gown, you’ll be guided to the photography zone.
You can have professional photographs taken with your guests by Tempest .
Please note, you may need to wait during busy periods so do allow enough time before your ceremony starts.
Once you’ve had your photographs, you’ll be directed to our pre-ceremony celebration where complimentary refreshments are available.
If you don’t want official photographs, you can skip this section and head to the pre-ceremony celebration area.
There will be lots of event stewards to help you find your way.
There will be announcement in the pre-ceremony celebration area once the hall is ready.
There is a short walk over to the ceremony hall.
Please make sure you have finished any drinks before walking over as you cannot take open drinks into the hall.
Bottled water is allowed.
Please ensure you and your guests have secured your wristband to access the building as quickly as possible.
For security reasons, you will not be able to enter without your wristband firmly secured on your arm.
You will be directed to the ceremony hall via the stairs or lifts.
Ushers will be on hand to help you and your guests find their seats.
Graduands will be seated separately to guests.
It is important that Graduands sit in the allocated seat, as this is the order in which you will be presented on stage.
Guests who do not have a ticket for the ceremony will be directed to our dedicated live stream venue.
Once inside the building, guests will enter the lecture theatre where the live stream will be hosted.
Don’t worry, we will have plenty of people showing you the way.
The ceremony will start promptly so please make sure you and your guests arrive in good time to find your seats.
We ask that everyone is seated in the hall at least 15 minutes before the start of the ceremony.
To begin the event, the platform party will process through the centre of the ceremony hall to the stage accompanied by a live performance by the Chamber Choir and trumpeters.
The platform party includes a senior academic, who presents your award, a Mace Bearer who carries the University Mace; a Master of Ceremonies; who comperes the ceremony; and academics from your school.
Once seated, the Master of Ceremonies will begin the ceremony with an opening message, which will be followed by a welcome from the senior academic and the presentation and response from honorary fellows, honorary doctorates and alumni award winner (when in attendance).
Graduate presentations will follow, where you will be invited to cross the stage and be congratulated by the senior academic.
Your seats have been allocated in a very specific order so that you cross the stage along with students from your course.
An usher will prompt your row when it is time for your presentation and you’ll line up at the left of the stage.
The queue will lead up a ramp and when you reach the stage, an usher will take your name card and hand it to the announcer who will read out your name.
You will then cross the stage to shake the Senior Academic’s hand or if you don’t wish to shake hands, you can cross your hands in front of you and simply nod.
You will exit the stage at the other side and ushers will direct you back to your seat for the rest of the ceremony.
Once the presentations have finished, the Chamber Choir will perform and you’ll be invited to celebrate by throwing your cap in the air with your fellow graduates.
The Master of Ceremonies will conclude the ceremony and invite all guests to sing the national anthem.
To conclude the ceremony, the platform party will process out of the hall.
The ceremony hall will be dark and there will be bright, flashing lights and loud music.
Live cameras will capture the entire event and be projected onto a large screen so all guests in the hall and those watching the live stream can see the proceedings and most importantly, the graduates crossing the stage.
It is important to remember that this is a moment of celebration for everyone, regardless of beliefs.
So please respect the audience and the occasion by avoiding demonstrating personal or political views.
We thank you for your understanding.
Guests should remain seated for the duration of the ceremony, to ensure everyone has a good view and prevent any disruption to the celebration.
Photos are taken of each graduate when crossing the stage (see the Tempest stand in the post-ceremony celebration area to purchase) and you are welcome to take photos in the post celebration area after the ceremony.
After the ceremony, you will exit the same way you came in.
Ushers will guide you to the dedicated post-ceremony area.
Your guests will follow after a few minutes.
You will be able to enjoy complimentary refreshments, take some more informal photos and catch up with your course mates.
We will also have food vendors and a bar available where you can purchase food and drinks.
If you'd prefer to celebrate in a quieter space with non-alcoholic refreshments, we have reserved an area to enjoy tea, coffee and cake.
You’ll able be able to purchase an official photograph of yourself crossing the stage and university merchandise.
We know it will be a day to remember and we are really looking forward to celebrating with you.
Would you prefer to celebrate in a quieter area with non-alcoholic refreshments?
An area has been reserved in the Student Centre Upper Ground Floor careers area for our graduates to enjoy tea, coffee and cake.
There are also prayer rooms available during graduation, including:
Please note that ceremonies include flashing lights.
Please email the Graduation Team for more information.
Yes, you will need to book your tickets online.
You will receive an email from us with instructions on how to do so.
If you have not yet received your email, please contact the Graduation Team .
Please check back for more detailed information.
Your gown
We recommend graduates wear the University’s academic dress which is a cap and gown.
In the email confirming your ceremony details, you will receive a link to book your cap and gown.
You’ll also need your student reference number.
This is your nine-digit student registration number, e.g.
G00112233 or S00112233 or 100112233.
You will collect your cap and gown on the day of the ceremony.
After the ceremony, please return your gown by 6pm at the gown return.
The gown return will be in the Student Centre.
What to wear
Wear a formal or smart outfit underneath your gown, we know you’ll want to look great for your photographs.
The gowns and mortarboards are black for all graduates excluding PhD graduates.
PhD graduates wear grey gowns and bonnets.
Gown hire pricing:
Refunds
In the event that you are unable to attend your graduation, please email Gowning@htempest.co.uk with your Student ID number to request a refund.
Your ceremony will usually be either 10am, 12.30pm or 3pm.
We advise that you arrive two hours before your ceremony is due to begin.
It will take time to register, gown and have your photographs taken.
Please don’t arrive more than two hours before, as registration only opens two hours before your ceremony.
After your ceremony, there will be a celebration event in University Square for graduands and their guests.
Please note the below schedule is for previous ceremonies and may be subject to change for any upcoming graduation ceremonies.
Always check back closer to the time for the most accurate information.
If you've not completed your course and achieved your target award by 16 June we will not expect you at July’s graduations.
You will be invited to the next ceremony after you have been awarded.
Students can view their results securely online by using myUCLan .
If you have a query regarding your award or your results please email the Graduation Team for assistance.
Students who have requested to defer their attendance will be emailed by mid-May with booking information.
If you don’t receive an email by Tuesday 20 May, please email the Graduation Team .
If you are a graduate who did not ask to defer but now wants to attend please email the Graduation Team .
You'll get a ticket and be able to bring up to two guests.
Tickets include complimentary post-ceremony refreshments (a choice of one complimentary alcoholic or non-alcoholic refreshment and a sweet or savoury treat).
If you want to bring extra guests they can watch a live stream from one of our lecture theatres, the Students' Union bar Lampworks or the Adelphi pub.
You can have a maximum of four extra guests in addition to the two in the ceremony hall.
Your extra guests will be able to join you at the post-ceremony celebration.
Extra guests will unfortunately not be eligible for complimentary post-ceremony refreshments, however there will be the opportunity to purchase additional food and drink.
Those who are attending to watch the live stream in the lecture theatre will be issued a ticket upon check-in on the day but to attend Lampworks or the Adelphi pub, no tickets are required.
It may be possible to offer additional guest tickets closer to your ceremony date.
However, this depends on the number of graduates who have confirmed their attendance per ceremony.
We will inform you of any additional guest tickets closer to your graduation date by email.
Tickets are not posted to you, but are collected when you register on the day.
The ceremonies can also be watched live on the website.
If your student visa has expired and you will be living outside the UK during Graduation and wish to return with family or friends to attend, you may need to apply for a visitor visa to return to the UK.
You will need your invitation email for your application and can find more information about the application process .
Graduation ceremonies are formal, lengthy events and experience has shown that children become bored and restless.
However, we appreciate that it is not always possible to make alternative childcare arrangements and exit points are clearly marked should you need to leave the hall.
If you are graduating, please note children cannot be left unattended in the hall without adult supervision so please make necessary arrangements in advance of your graduation day.
Children under the age of two do not require tickets and may sit on an adult's lap, not on a seat.
Children aged two and over require a guest ticket for entry to the ceremony.
Please ensure children remain seated throughout the ceremony to avoid causing any disruption to the ceremony.
Where graduates are allocated an additional two guest tickets and one is for a child, the second ticket must go to a supervising adult.
Graduates sit separately to guests in the ceremony hall and so cannot supervise children at this time.
If a group of guests includes one adult and multiple children, then the group must go together into the Graduation Live Stream rather than the ceremony hall.
This is because children cannot be left unsupervised at any time during the event.
Please note that prams and pushchairs are not permitted in the ceremony.
You will be seated in the hall and called up to the stage to receive your award.
Don’t worry there will be plenty of staff showing you what you need to do.
Graduands will be given a reserved seat number in front of the stage.
It is important that you sit in the seat reserved for you so that we call the right name at the right time onto the stage.
Don’t worry an usher will direct you to the stage at the right time and your name will be announced.
You should then walk across the stage and shake hands with the Presiding Officer who will be giving you your award, before returning to your seat.
Guest seating surrounds the graduate seats in the hall.
Smile – you’re on camera
Just to let you know graduation ceremonies are regarded as public events and the names of all graduates (including those graduands who don’t attend) are published in the graduation programme.
The graduation ceremony will also be filmed and live streamed over the internet and will ultimately be available to view on the UCLan website so you and friends and family can watch again.
We’ll also be doing general filming and photography at the ceremonies and celebration event which may be used for corporate publicity.
If you object to being filmed and/or photographed for this purpose, please email our Brand Team .
Studio photography
Our studio photography offers you the opportunity to have individual and family group (max 7 people) photographs taken by a professional photographer.
H Tempest Ltd is the appointed photography company.
A wide range of products are available to view on the Tempest website .
On your graduation day you may have your photograph taken before or after your ceremony.
Studios will remain open until 5pm each day.
Photos of your presentation
Presentation photographs will be taken of you on the stage as you shake hands with the Presiding Officer and will be available to purchase after the ceremony from the Tempest website
Memorabilia and gifts
A range of University branded merchandise will be available to purchase from the Students' Union at every Graduation event with 7.5% of all sales going to the Harris Bursary Fund.
This is a charitable fund established through the University Foundation to provide emergency help and support to students.
You can also make purchases online from the Students' Union.
Drones are not permitted at graduation for safety reasons.
Please do not bring or use drones at this event.
Unfortunately, we don’t have facilities to store large bags and suitcases, and we cannot allow them into the ceremony hall or any of the graduation zones due to health and safety.
There are a few options we suggest:
If you turn up to the event with any large bags or luggage we unfortunately cannot allow you entry to the event.
The booking form where you confirm your intention to attend a ceremony asks whether you or your guests have any access requirements that require specific assistance or prior organisation.
Please can you confirm details on the form and provide additional information if necessary.
If you have any questions, then please email us .
The University of Central Lancashire campus is wheelchair accessible with lift access to all floors.
Information for Deaf graduates and guests
British Sign Language interpreters will be present at the ceremony.
If you or any of your guests are deaf and require seats reserved in a suitable position to view the interpreter or to access the hearing loop system, please indicate this on the booking form or contact us.
Information for blind or visually impaired graduates and guests
Graduates, your seat will be reserved in the ceremony hall so that you can sit with your course colleagues, however we may allocate a seat for you at the end of the row to provide easy access.
Our ushers will provide any assistance you may require to escort you to and from the presentation platform.
We will discuss these arrangements with you when you arrive at the ceremony so you will know exactly what to expect.
Please provide additional information on the booking form if you or one of your guests has a guide dog so that we can allow extra space.
Information for wheelchair users or those with mobility issues
Please review our AccessAble guide for more information on how to access building.
Graduates, your place will be reserved in the ceremony hall so that you can sit with your course colleagues if possible.
There will be ramp access with handrails onto the presentation platform and we will discuss the arrangements with you when you arrive in the ceremony hall.
For guests, there are designated areas in the ceremony hall for wheelchair users and easily accessible rows will be reserved for those with mobility issues if required.
Please contact us if your guest(s) require a wheelchair space.
Please note that the University is not able to provide wheelchairs for use at the Graduation Ceremony.
Wellbeing Ambassadors
Our Inclusive Support Team can provide a range of support during your visit.
This includes Wellbeing Ambassadors who can support your visit during the event.
Please indicate your requirements on the booking form or contact us for further information.
Venue information
University of Central Lancashire Engineering Innovation Centre Fylde Road PR1 2HE
Campus map
Please arrive at the Engineering Innovation Centre on the Preston Campus and you will be asked to register and collect your gown.
Don’t worry you will be guided through the ceremony experience, from beginning to end.
The venue for the graduation ceremonies is Sir Tom Finney Sports Centre.
Parking
Please remember that we don’t have space in the University car parks during Graduation – just for blue Badge holders.
Blue badge holders (disabled parking)
There will be a limited number of blue badge parking spaces on Hope Street Car Park.
Local Public Car Parks
Find out about car parks in Preston here.
Closest to campus are Walker Street, Trinity Square and St.
Mary’s.
See more information in the ‘How to find us’ section below.
We have exclusive rates and discounts with local hotels for graduation and other events .
You will also find discounts for local restaurants and bars in Preston city centre.
Please find further information on hotels local to Preston .
Please note that the University cannot be held liable for the cost of any travel arrangements or accommodation made by you or your guests even if in any unfortunate circumstance that the event is cancelled or you are unable to attend.
There are a number of different ways to travel to your Graduation.
By Bus
Preston Bus Station is 5-10 minutes’ walk or a short taxi ride to Fylde Road, PR1 2HE.
Park and Ride
The service operates from Walton-le-Dale and Portway locations and is easily accessible from the M6 and M65.
The bus service stops in the town centre and is approximately a 10-minute walk from UCLan's campus.
Further information can be found on the Lancashire County Council website .
By car
Car Park
Location
Approx.
distance to UCLan
Spaces
Walker Street
PR1 2HF
0.2m
260
St Mary’s
PR1 2XH
0.1m
70
Hill Street
PR1 2BB
0.16m
St George’s
PR1 2TU
0.29m
410
Fishergate
PR1 8BN
0.33m
850
Preston Bus Station
PR1 1YT
0.5m
600
By Taxi
To pre-book
Taxi drop off/collection point Fylde Road, PR1 2HE
By Train
Preston Railway Station is 5-10 minutes’ walk to Fylde Road, PR1 2HE
The University of Central Lancashire Graduation Team is happy to answer any queries.
Email the Graduation Team or call us on +44 (0) 1772 891828.
Not heard from us about your graduation?
The Graduation Team contacts students using the contact information in your online record.
It is your responsibility to keep these details up to date.
If you cannot access your online record to update contact details, please contact the Graduation Team via email .
We make every effort to contact students that have left the university, however, if your contact details have not been updated in the university system, we may be unable to do so.
To change your details please contact the Graduation Team via email .
Cancellation policy
In the event that the Graduation Ceremony cannot take place, is delayed, or times for the Graduation Ceremony are changed as a result of any events, omissions, or non-events that are beyond the reasonable control of the University of Central Lancashire, including (without limitation):
The University of Central Lancashire shall not be liable for any losses, direct or otherwise, incurred by graduates and their guests.
How we use your information
The University’s graduation ceremonies are public events and are significant events for graduates, guests and staff.
To see how we use information about you and your guests when you attend a ceremony, including information about photography, video and live streaming at the event, view our graduation privacy notice .
We have a team of event stewards and student ambassadors stationed throughout the event site.
They can offer assistance and support as needed.
Our security team will also be actively patrolling the event.
Sign up to your Alumni Network via your graduation booking form and take advantage of all of the alumni benefits and support we have on offer.
Whether it be careers advice, library and gym access or business support, we’re here for you throughout your graduate life.
Share your graduation celebrations and favourite memories of studying with us using #UCLanGraduates on social media.
You can also collect complimentary photo prints from the University Square on the day of your ceremony when you share through Twitter.
Could you be our next TikTok or Instagram star?
Look out for our team who will be filming throughout graduation.
If you are unable to attend and would like to defer to a later graduation please email our Graduation Team .
If you do not wish to attend any graduation event you do not need to let us know.
You can have a maximum of four extra guests in addition to the two guests accompanying you to the ceremony hall.
However, this depends on the number of graduands who have confirmed their attendance per ceremony.
We use Tempest Photography services more information on the service they provide can be found on the Tempest website .

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/support/financial-support:
Our Financial Support Team are on hand to help you with any money problems.
We can help you contact Student Finance if your loan is delayed or incorrect.
We can identify appropriate scholarships or bursaries.
We can also provide general advice about managing your money.
You'll also have access to Blackbullion, a financial education app.
This can help you learn key money skills like saving and budgeting.
Please note, our advisers are not trained debt counsellors or benefits advisers.
If you're facing an ongoing financial problem such as debt or access to benefits, we may signpost you to external agencies.
There are lots of ways to get in touch with us:
You'll find more independent tips and advice on the following websites:
Benefits and housing
Debt advice
Gambling support
General money advice
Student finance can be broken into two parts:
A tuition fee loan covers your course fees and is paid directly to the university.
All UK students are entitled to this, regardless of household income.
A maintenance loan is paid to you and covers your living costs.
How much you receive will depend on your household income, as well as whether you're living at home or at university.
Find out more in our Student Finance guide .
Your maintenance loan is unlikely to cover all of your living costs.
Most students supplement this with a part-time job .
You may also receive money from family, savings, or scholarships and bursaries.
Please note that accommodation costs have been taken from our economy accommodation .
The rest of the costs are based on average UK student living costs by Save the Student 2025 .
Your living costs may vary.
It is important to budget in order to manage your money properly.
This will stop you from spending more money than you have.
Check out our guide on how to budget at university.
Mature students may have more financial commitments to consider, such as childcare or a mortgage.
That's why we have support specifically for mature students.
We can offer bursaries and grants, as well as signpost to external agencies for further help.
All of our students have access to Blackbullion, a financial education app.
This can help you learn key money skills like budgeting, saving and investing.
You can access Blackbullion as soon as you apply.
This will help your prepare your finances for university.
We provide a number of scholarships and bursaries to help with the cost of university.
Scholarships are awarded for academic or other achievements.
Bursaries are based on your personal circumstances, like being a carer.
Esiri shows you how to budget for uni
Most students living in the UK choose to apply for a student loan.
Your student loan is made up of two parts:
The amount you receive will depend on your personal circumstances.
This could include your household income and whether you live away from home or with your family.
Find out more in our student finance guide .
You may also need to pay towards a few essential course items.
This could include books, equipment and attendance on field trips.
We’ll give you more details when you apply.
If you go through Student Finance, you have the option to receive a maintenance loan from the government to help with your living costs.
The amount you receive in your maintenance loan depends on your personal circumstances.
This could be your household income and whether you live away from home or with your family.
Maintenance loans get paid directly into your bank account at the start of each term.
Generally, maintenance loans will get paid into your bank account in September, January and April.
This can vary depending on which university you study at and the course you are studying.
Your maintenance loan is unlikely to get paid directly to your accommodation provider.
Be mindful of this when you are working out your monthly budget as you will need to put money aside to pay your accommodation provider.
It is unlikely that your maintenance loan will cover all of your living costs.
If possible, you may need extra financial support from:
Financial support from us
We have extra financial support packages which you may be eligible for if you’re from a low income household or experiencing financial hardship.
Find out more on our fees and funding page.
Additional student finance
You may be eligible for additional student finance if you are a parent.
Other government funding
For details of other government support available, including:
Visit gov.uk/student-finance
You should apply for your student loan as soon as you’ve applied to us.
The application process varies depending on where you live.
To apply please follow the relevant link:
As an international student you are unable to apply for a student loan from the UK Government.
You must show that you can pay your tuition fees and support yourself during your studies as part of your Student Visa application .
We have several bursaries and scholarships available to support international students whilst studying with us.
You may also want to research what funding is available from your home country to support you through your studies.
If you have been assessed as having “settled status”, you will be eligible for the same support from Student Finance as a UK student.
In England, you won’t start repaying your student loan until you’ve finished your course and you’re earning above a certain amount.
Student Finance England deduct repayments from your salary through the Pay As You Earn (PAYE) scheme.
Your repayments will stop automatically if your income falls below the threshold or you stop working.
Your monthly repayment will be a small percentage of the amount of your salary which is above the threshold.
Other parts of the UK have different repayment plans.
For more information about repaying student loans go to the repaying your student loan page on the government website.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/study/information-for-parents:
Our hub provides everything you need to help you guide your child through university.
We offer help and advice for their application, supporting their studies, finance and more.
We'll cover everything from the very first steps of application right through to your child's time studying with us.
The very first step for anyone attending university is deciding what you want to study.
This decision can be much easier for some people than it does others - and that's perfectly fine.
A lot of young people aren't sure what they want to be in an ever-changing world.
There's also quite a bit to know about student finance, budgeting and accommodation.
We've put together some articles to try help with that.
We recommend reading through these articles with your child if you get the chance; they're written for students, but the information inside is perfect for parents, carers and guardians too.
Your child has an offer and is right around the corner from joining a university.
This is amazing and exciting news, but you might be wondering what you need to prepare for next.
You can visit our handy welcome and arrivals area of the website for lots of information, articles, videos and more.
The following articles tackle more specific things that come up just before starting university.
University is a fantastic, life-changing experience for young people.
It can also come with new challenges too.
That’s why we’ll be there for your child every step of the way.
With second-to-none support services, from the moment they arrive until the day they graduate and beyond.
We’ll help them to overcome any problems they might encounter, get back on track, and make the most of their time with us.
We have a wide range of different support options available, suited to help for individual circumstances and needs.
Your child will have access to all our support options as a student with us.
There are lots of steps on the journey for applying to university.
In Year 12, your child should start thinking about which courses they would like to study.
They should also start looking at universities and attending UCAS Fairs, to find out which one is right for them.
In Year 13, your child will need to start applying to universities.
Take a look at our timeline below for key dates.
This includes deadlines for submitting an application, applying for a student loan, accepting an offer and more.
Now is a good time for your child to put their UCAS application together.
They can choose to apply for up to five courses on their application.
This can be at one or more universities, but most students apply to five universities at this stage.
There are some exceptions.
Students can only choose four courses in dentistry, medicine or veterinary science, for example.
Your child doesn’t have to choose which university is their first choice until after they’ve submitted their UCAS application.
If your child is applying to universities with high entry requirements it's good idea for them to include a 'back-up' choice.
A university that will accept lower grades is a good back-up, so that they can still be accepted onto a course if they don't get the grades they were expecting.
As part of their application, your child will need to write a personal statement.
They can use our personal statement checking service to ensure that theirs really stands out.
If your child wishes to start university in September next year they will be able to submit their UCAS application the September this year.
They should visit UCAS and apply online.
The official UCAS deadline date is usually in the last week of January.
Universities will give equal consideration to any applications made on or before this date.
We recommend that your child meets this deadline to ensure they receive an offer to study before summer starts.
If they miss this deadline, they may find that places start to fill up quickly.
But don’t worry too much if they don’t meet this deadline.
Most courses accept applications all year round, so encourage them to apply as soon as they can.
Consider applying for student finance early.
You can visit the government website for details of how your child can apply for a student loan.
If they apply for a maintenance loan towards living costs, you will be asked to submit evidence of your household income, so have your paperwork ready.
If your child applied by the January deadline, universities have until May to decide whether they will make an offer.
Visit UCAS to find the deadline date for this year.
Make sure your child has applied for their student loan.
The deadline is usually in May.
Visit the government website to get it sorted.
Make sure they have responded to any further offers they’ve received before the deadline given.
If your child has received all their decisions by May, then they must reply to any offers by June.
The exception is if they're using UCAS Extra to find an extra place at a sixth option.
If your child doesn't reply to the offers, then they will be declined a place.
Any applications for September entry received after June will be entered into the Clearing process.
This gives students an opportunity to secure any remaining places at universities across the country.
Clearing opens, enabling students to find remaining places on courses.
A Level, BTEC and T Level results are released.
If your child has received a conditional offer then the university will find out their grades before they confirm their place.
You can find out more about to expect on results day in our handy Parents' Guide to Results Day article .
If your child doesn't get the grades they were expecting, then they may still be able to secure a place at university through Clearing .
If you still have some unanswered questions, our Course Enquiries Team will be happy to help.
You can call them on +44 (0)1772 892400 or email the team .

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/advice:
Read our advice articles about a wide range of topics.
From understanding university grades and the cost of living at university to how to become a midwife.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/international-students:
The University of Central Lancashire is home to students from more than 100 countries worldwide.
We offer a friendly, welcoming and supportive environment for those travelling from overseas to study with us.
Interested in studying at the University of Central Lancashire?
Our international student guide is packed with useful information for overseas students.
Please view our admission deadlines for international applicants below.
Please note that some courses may close early once they reach capacity.
We strongly recommend applying as soon as possible to secure your place.
Some courses may have higher English language requirements than listed below.
These are only indicative.
Our Language Academy can help you to improve your English language skills.
This can help you meet the entry requirements for your course.
You will study on the programme for between six and 30 weeks, depending on your language level.
Once you have passed the Pre-Sessional programme at the required grade, you can proceed on to your chosen university course.
This is taught at our Preston campus.
Preston is a vibrant, multicultural city in the heart of the North West of England, making it the perfect place to live, work and play.
Our Preston Campus is home to a thriving international community of over 27,000 students and staff.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/study/fees-and-finance/eu-and-international-students:
Are you an EU or international student interested in studying with us?
You'll find information about tuition fees for each year of study here.
This includes undergraduate, postgraduate taught and research, and non-standard course fees.
Full-time fees are per-year and part-time fees are per 20 credits studied unless otherwise stated.
There are a number of non-standard fee courses so please check individual course pages for accurate information.
If you're continuing on the same course you'll pay the same tuition fees for each year of your study, based on the year you start.
This is subject to any applicable inflationary increase.
Part-time courses are charged per 20 credits studied.
Every course is made up of several individual modules or units, with each module being worth a certain number of credits.
You will need to take complete a specific number of credits from the modules to successfully complete your course .
Modules are usually worth 20, 40 or 60 credits and each module will align to a minimum level on the Regulated Qualification Framework .
If you study part-time you'll be charged per 20 credits studied, with fees calculated per 20 credit module.
Most standard courses are made up of 20 credit modules, however there are exceptions.
The number of modules per course may vary.
The total number of credits per course remains the same.
Find out more about modules, credit and grades.
Tuition fees include:
We will not charge additional fees for course costs which are essential for the successful achievement of your course award.
The only exceptions to this are research programmes which may carry additional costs such as bench fees (also know as research support fees).
If applicable these costs will be outlined in your offer.
Additional costs (essential and optional)
As part of your course, there may be additional costs to consider that are not included in your tuition fees.
Most of these will be optional, but a small number of courses have essential additional costs.
Want to know how much things will cost in your local currency?
Use XE's currency converter.
Please note that you should use this as a guide only.
We offer a range of scholarships and bursaries depending on your eligibility.
Find out everything you need to know and apply today.
Once you’ve started studying with us you might find yourself in need of a little extra help and support.
Our Student Support Team are here to help.
They can tell you about any additional funds you may be eligible for.
Plus they can put you in contact with support from your Students' Union who can help on a wide range of financial issues.
If you have any further financial queries you can contact the Student Support Team by email or telephone 01772 891828 (option 2).
If you would like any further guidance about paying your fees, please contact the Customer Accounts Team
If you are on Preston Campus you can call in to see the Student Support Team on the lower ground floor of the Student Centre.
They will be able to provide you further guidance or contact the Customer Accounts Team for you.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/about-us/international:
The University of Central Lancashire is the international, multi-campus university leading the way in modern learning.
Our educational ethos remains at the heart of our mission, just as it did in 1828.
We combine academic excellence and real-world teaching to inspire people to transform their lives.
We provide opportunities to achieve things they never thought possible.
Our main campus is based in Preston, with others located in Burnley (East Lancashire), Westlakes (West Cumbria) and Cyprus.
We enrol International students from more than 100 countries and have partnerships with over 120 institutions from across the globe.
We’re in the top 7% of worldwide universities according to the Centre for World University Rankings​ 2024 (CWUR).
If you’d like to study at a great university in the North West, the University of Central Lancashire should be your first choice.
We offer excellent support for international students.
We also offer a range of foundation courses for international students who do not meet the minimum academic or language entry requirements for a course.
We are widely regarded as a leading UK university for international partnerships and are now 'partner of first choice' for many reputable universities worldwide.
Our international partnerships encompass colleague and student interchange, transnational education programmes, linked (articulated) programmes, collaborative research, knowledge transfer and joint projects.
The Study Abroad Exchange Programme allows international students to study with us in the UK for a short period.
It also our students to experience life overseas.
We currently have exchange programmes with almost 100 universities across Europe, USA, Canada, Mexico, Australia, Hong Kong and more.
Whether it be careers advice, library and gym facilities, or business support, you can access services throughout your graduate life.
We are a proud partner of the 'Study UK: Discover You' the 'Education is GREAT' campaign from the British Council.
This campaign provides practical information and insight on UK education for international students.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/study/partners/international:
Internationalisation and partnership are at the heart of our corporate strategy.
We have nurtured a diverse network of international partners overseas and value our reputation as a successful partnership institution.
We forged our first overseas transnational education collaboration in 1986.
Thanks to this we are now engaged globally on programmes ranging over a variety of aspects.
This range from staff and student exchanges, progression partners (articulations) to validated programmes.
We also work in collaborative research, knowledge transfer and joint project ventures.
We are proud to be at the forefront of higher education globalisation.
We work in collaboration with governing bodies, ministries of education and international organisations.
We provide staff and students with real-world international opportunities both at home and across the world.
If you have a general enquiry, let us know and we'll pass it to the relevant team.
Universal College Bangladesh (UCB)
Universal College Bangladesh (UCB) is a pioneer in delivering international higher education programmes in Bangladesh.
UCB is where excellence meets accessibility, and where every Bangladeshi student can have a world class educational experience leading to globally recognised qualifications.
UCB’s aim is to give every student in Bangladesh the opportunity to get international qualifications from some of the world’s leading higher education institutions.
UCB are the first transnational education (TNE) provider to be given all the relevant permissions by the Ministry of Education to offer international degree courses and pathway programmes, in the Country.
UCB were recently approved by the Ministry of Education to deliver 3-year programmes in-country and will be delivering the following franchised programme for delivery from November 2024 at the UCB Dhaka city centre campus:
January 2025 and subject to validation* :
UCB’s vision is as a world class education institution providing students the skills required to become work-ready professionals who can contribute to the social and economic development globally.
Visit the UCB website
Contact Phone: +880 1886-412222 / +880 1896-013882 / +880 1844-277342 / +880 1844-277343 Email: admission@ucbbd.org
Address Universal College Bangladesh SA Tower, 1 Gulshan Avenue, Dhaka – 1212
Office Hours: 8:00 AM to 6 PM BST (Saturday to Thursday)
Arab Academy for Science, Technology and Maritime Transport (AASTMT) – El Alamein Campus
The Arab Academy for Science, Technology and Maritime Transport (AASTMT) is located in El Alamein, Egypt and was established in 1972.
For over 49 years, AASTMT has managed to keep up with the fast pace of development in the fields of education, training, consultation and scientific research.
With its strong belief in the importance of Arab integration through enhancing joint Arab cooperation with the ultimate aim of attaining integrated Arab collaboration in all scientific fields, AASTMT has managed to accomplish further achievements in the fields of education, training and research.
It has served the Arab community by providing education for both undergraduate and graduate students in over 35 specialisations.
These include maritime transport, engineering, computers and information technology, international transport and logistics, management, language, media, law, pharmacy, fisheries and aquaculture technology, archaeology and finally dentistry and artificial intelligence.
The institutional partnership with AASTMT enables students to access a wide range of our Engineering programmes through a dual degree partnership.
Students can access the following programme titles once completed full study at El-Alamein Campus, Egypt.
The partnership looks forward to announcing new developments and programme titles in the future ahead.
Visit the AASTMT website .
Contact
Address:
Arab Academy for Science, Technology & Maritime Transport El Alamein.
Alamein Branch - El Alameen City El Alamein Matrouh Governorate
European Universities in Egypt (EUE)
The European Universities in Egypt (EUE) is established according to the presidential decree no.86 of the year 2021 and is based in the New Administrative Capital of Egypt.
EUE is a higher education institution offering transnational education by bringing together reputable international universities to create a unique hub in the MENA region.
Through partnerships with international universities, the EUE offers degree programmes in a diverse range of disciplines while granting its students the degree of the respective university.
EUE will provide its students with state-of-the-art learning and research experiences to meet the needs of the emerging Egyptian economy and the international market.
It aims to be a novel research hub that nurtures transnational education in the MENA region and makes a socio-economic impact across all collaborating markets.
EUE aspires to be a distinguished and pioneering institution in higher education and scientific research.
By hosting distinguished branches from world-ranked universities, EUE aims to graduate world-class students who will contribute to shape the future of their country and humanity.
EUE campus aims to:
Four of UCLan's Engineering undergraduate programmes have been franchised for delivery from October 2021 at the brand new campus in New Cairo:
The partnership is tied in with summer school, masters and PhD delivery at the Preston campus.
Visit the EUE website
Phone: 16323 / +201029696399 / +201029695599
Email: info@EUE.edu.eg
Address: Admissions Office: European Universities in Egypt 3rd Floor, Kira Building 367/3 Road 90 South (main road) (next to Top90 Mall/in front of Moon Valley Compound) New Cairo Egypt
Campus Address: R3, New Administrative Capital, Egypt.
Next to the Olympic City - Plus code: 2PR5+8H Cairo Governorate Desert - See on Google Maps .
College for Humanistic Sciences (ICPS), Greece
The College for Humanistic Sciences (ICPS) is a longstanding partner of the University, responsible for delivering various franchise programmes.
They are the only college in Greece to have been specialising in the science of human behaviour since 1989.
Since the College was re-authorised by the Ministry of Education in 2013, it has made huge leaps in becoming a specialist institution in the field of human behaviour.
The College is certified by the Pearson-Edexcel Training Center, the world’s largest professional certification body, and offers lifelong and distance programmes in Counselling, Learning Difficulties, and Counselling for Couples.
Working alongside the Greek EFT Network, ICPS offer an array of approved programmes that meet the EFT Therapist criteria.
This gives students the unique advantage of gaining double certification within the subject field, giving them a distinct advantage in their careers.
Furthermore, ICPS trainers travel globally to do speeches and workshops.
This includes speaking at the World Conference on Personal Counselling and Psychotherapy in New York.
In July 2017, ICPS became a founding member of the Pan-Hellenic Association of Recognised Colleges.
This means that the College plays a key role in the field of education in Greece and aspires to work with universities abroad.
This initiative led to our current collaboration – we now offer MSc Applied Clinical Psychology and MSc Psychology (Conversion) courses which are based in Greece.
Find out more about the College for Humanistic Sciences on their website .
Phone: +30.210.64.56.565
Email: reception@icps.edu.gr
Address : 56a Filikon str.
& Kanari 121 31 Agios Antonios, Peristeri Athens, Greece.
City University of Hong Kong, School of Continuing & Professional Education (SCOPE)
Our partners at the School of Continuing and Professional Education (SCOPE) at City University in Hong Kong offer courses related to Fire Engineering, Fire Safety Engineering, English for International Corporate Communication and International Business Communication.
Their fire safety programmes have been developed to serve the needs of the Hong Kong Fire Services Authority.
Since its development in 1991, SCOPE has been a pioneer and major provider of quality professional education and training in Hong Kong.
The School offers a range of programmes at different levels.
Their bachelor’s degree programmes focus on professional education in a variety of disciplines.
Their postgraduate programmes are specialist, delivering academically sound and career-relevant content which meets the needs of surrounding communities and reflects ongoing social and technological changes.
Over the past two decades, the School has worked alongside us to provide bachelor’s degrees to a high standard, ensuring that we are developing knowledgeable and highly employable graduates within key sectors.
Franchised courses:
Find out more about SCOPE on their website .
Phone: 00 852 3442 7423
Email: scope@cityu.edu.hk
2410, 2/F, Li Dak Sum Yip Yio Chin Academic Building (LI)
City University of Hong Kong
Tat Chee Avenue, Kowloon
Hong Kong
Hong Kong College of Technology, (Hong Kong Institute of Higher Education)
We have enjoyed a very successful relationship with the Centre of International Education at Hong Kong College of Technology (HKCT) since 2005.
The initial collaboration was in the areas of construction project management, facilities management and marketing.
Our courses have greatly benefited industries throughout Hong Kong.
HKCT and its predecessor, Mong Kok Workers’ Night School, was formed with the aim of addressing large-scale redundancies and educational problems in post-war Hong Kong.
For more than 70 years, its mission and ethos have evolved continuously to adapt to the changing demands of society (from literacy education at Mong Kok Workers’ Night School in the 1940s and 1950s and school skill labour training in the 1960s, to professional education in the 1970s and 1980s, and retraining in the 1990s).
Their programmes now extend to post-secondary education, including the delivery of outstanding academic degrees.
In 2014, HKCT Institute of Higher Education was approved by the Chief Executive in-Council as it became the nineteenth degree-awarding higher education institution in Hong Kong.
HKCT is committed to professional career education and delivers a variety of programmes, including full-time and part-time degrees and diplomas, with an emphasis on applied skills and meeting the labour demands of Hong Kong’s industries – to date they have provided over 600,000 qualified students.
Franchised programmes:
Find out more about Hong Kong College of Technology on their website .
Phone: 00 852 2926 1222
Email: enquiry@hkct.edu.hk
14 Princess Margaret Road
Homantin, Kowloon
School for Higher and Professional Education (SHAPE), Vocational Training Council, Hong Kong
The Vocational Training Council (VTC) is the largest training provider in Hong Kong.
We have been working with the VTC for many years and now offer a wide range of courses in Engineering related subjects.
The School for Higher and Professional Education (SHAPE) is a member institution of the VTC.
Since its establishment in 2003, SHAPE has been providing quality top-up degree programmes in a wide range of professions by working closely with partner institutions.
Through collaborating with us and many other universities across the world, graduates will earn a reputable and recognised top-up degree in Hong Kong.
Both full-time and part-time study options are available to suit the needs of every student.
In the academic year 2020-21, some 44 accredited programmes are pitched at Level 5 under the Hong Kong Qualifications Framework.
SHAPE offers programmes in Engineering and other areas, including Applied Science; Business; Childcare; Elderly and Community Services; Design; Hospitality, Tourism and Leisure; and Information Technology.
Phone: 00 852 25952771
Email: shape@vtc.edu.hk
SHAPE Central Office
Room 008, Academic Block
30 Shing Tai Road, Chai Wan, Hong Kong
SEGi University, Malaysia
SEGi University and Colleges first opened its doors as Systematic College in 1977 in the heart of Kuala Lumpur’s commercial district, offering globally recognised professional qualifications.
Since then, SEGi has experienced significant growth by adapting and catering to an increasing demand for tertiary education and professional qualifications in Malaysia.
We are proud to have SEGi University as our partners in Malaysia.
A leading private higher education institution, they deliver innovative programmes to cater to the needs of industry and the wider community, nationally and internationally.
We have collaborated on a suite of courses designed to equip students with highly employable skills and knowledge.
When students graduate they receive a double degree qualification – which means they receive certification from both ourselves and SEGi to demonstrate their expertise and enhance their employment prospects.
The courses we deliver collaboratively with SEGi include:
Find out more about SEGi University on their website .
Phone: 00 603 6145 1777
Email: infokd@segi.edu.my
SEGi University
Jalan Teknologi
Kota Damansara
47810 Petaling Jaya
Selangor, Malaysia
UOM Enterprise Ltd
UOM Enterprise Ltd was created in 2010 by the University of Mauritius Trust and is registered as a post-secondary educational institution.
We entered a partnership with UOME in 2011 to deliver numerous courses in Mauritius.
UOME was established by the UOM Trust (a charitable trust set up by the University of Mauritius) to respond to the training needs of the African continent.
They boast brand new teaching facilities, providing top-class programmes for ambitious students.
Our LLM in International Business Law has been operating within Mauritius since 2011 and the curriculum has been highly praised by the professional law community as an outstanding source of skills and knowledge for students.
In order to diversify the programme on offer in Mauritius, and after three years of delivering an LLM in International Business Law, we worked alongside UOME to launch various undergraduate and postgraduate courses within the fields of Law and Construction in 2014.
All of them have gone through the rigorous process of accreditation by the TEC and the Quality Assurance Agency for Higher Education to provide students with fully recognised qualifications.
In 2019, we celebrated a record number of students graduating from UOME across a range of courses.
There were more students than ever graduating from our LLB and LLM programmes and, for the first time, there were students graduating from our Graduate Diploma in Law (GDL).
In addition, there were a number of graduates from the MSc in Construction Project Management.
Phone: 00 230 467 8925/00 230 467 8926
Email:
contactus@uomenterprise.ac.mu
1st Floor, Blue Tower, Rue de L'Institut Ebène Mauritius
International College of Engineering and Management, Oman
The International College of Engineering and Management (ICEM) is at the forefront of educational excellence in the Sultanate of Oman.
This renowned higher education college offers students an unrivalled combination of practical courses led by experts and delivering educational excellence.
The International College of Engineering and Management (ICEM) is an educational beacon that brings together outstanding students from many different countries.
Our partnership with ICEM has existed for over ten years, delivering unique degree courses in Fire Safety Engineering, Well Engineering, Facilities Management and Health, Safety and Environmental Management.
Together, we strive to offer an unrivalled educational experience, with opportunities to network with a truly international body of students and staff.
Our courses are practical, producing industry-ready graduates and informed research.
ICEM continue to provide our approved courses in Oman, focusing on providing a truly world-class higher education learning environment based on practical vocational teaching with a strong bias towards producing graduates who are ‘employer ready’, well rounded and internationally experienced.
There have been countless graduates from ICEM with diplomas and degrees accredited by the University of Central Lancashire.
The vast majority have entered the private sector and gone on to enjoy successful careers in Oman and other Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries.
Phone: 00 968 24512000/2020
Email: info@icem.edu.om
International College of Engineering and Management
PO Box 2511, CPPO Seeb PC11
Muscat, Oman
Beijing Institute of Technology (BIT), China
We have enjoyed a longstanding partnership with Beijing Institute of Technology (BIT) in China for over 20 years.
During this time we have collaborated on a number of successful Electronic and Engineering programmes, including the renowned BEng (Hons) Electronic Engineering course.
Established in 1940, Beijing Institute of Technology (BIT) is a major science and engineering university which is now affiliated to China’s Ministry of Industry and Information Technology.
BIT has become a key research institution in the aftermath of the Chinese government’s nationwide Project 211, Project 985 and ‘Top A World-class University’ strategies, which saw major investment in the country’s higher education institutions, with a view to delivering future social development and economic growth.
BIT aspires “to develop students as leaders with ambition, wisdom, innovation and sense of duty.” A pioneer in the fields of science, technology and education, BIT has been called upon to develop strategies which address national and global needs.
Today the Institute is recognised as a leader in technologies relating to intelligent and bionic robotics, space adaptive optics, green energy, modern communications and industrial process control.
BIT comprises 18 professional schools as well as a number of key research institutes, including Xu Teli School; Advanced Research Institute for Multidisciplinary Science; the Institute of Advanced Structure Technology; and the Institute of Convergence Medical and Engineering.
The following subjects at BIT are ranked in the top 1% of the Essential Science Indicators (ESI) international disciplines: Chemistry, Computer Science, Engineering, Material Science, Mathematics, Physics, and Social Sciences.
Visit the Beijing Institute of Technology website .
Phone, Office of International Students: 00 86-10-68918316 00 86-13910172716
Email: wangying318@gmail.com , yingwang@bit.edu.cn
Address: Beijing Institute of Technology 5 Zhongguancun Nandajie, Haidian District 100081 Beijing, PR China
Guangdong University of Foreign Studies, China
Since 1986, we have enjoyed a successful partnership with the Guangdong University of Foreign Studies in China.
Our collaboration focuses on International Business and International Journalism, and has remained strong and successful in providing students with amazing opportunities over the years.
Guangdong University of Foreign Studies (GDUFS) has the mission of “whole-person education and pursuit of excellence” and pursues the internationalisation of its faculty, students, academic research and management, with a view to being recognised as a high-tier internationalised university of excellence.
GDUFS has three beautiful campuses: the main campus, the North Campus at the foot of the Baiyun Mountain; the South Campus in Guangzhou High Education Mega Center; and Dalang Campus.
The University offers more than 70 programmes in art, economics, education, engineering, law, literature, management and science.
They pride themselves in being able to offer a wide variety of language programmes, with 26 foreign languages currently available.
GDUFS is one of just 19 universities worldwide qualified to provide high-end translation professionals to the United Nations and the only foreign studies-oriented university in the CAMPUS Asia programme.
It is a member of the International Standing Conference of University Institutes of Translators and Interpreters (CIUTI), International Federation of Translators (FIT) and the founder of World Interpreter and Translator Training Association (WITTA).
The University is active in a full range of international co-operation and exchanges in education.
To date, it has ties with 374 universities and academic and cultural institutions in 53 countries or regions.
The University has also co-established five Confucius Institutes overseas.
Articulation Programmes:
Find out more about Guangdong University of Foreign Studies on their website .
Phone: 00 86 20362 67878 Email: iie@gdufs.edu.cn
Address: 2 Baiyun Road North Guangzhou 510420 PR China
HBU-UCLan School of Media, Communication and Creative Industries
In 2014, UCLan in collaboration with Hebei University (HBU) created the joint non independent status School: HBU-UCLan School of Media, Communication and Creative Industries.
The Joint School, approved by China’s Ministry of Education, offers 4-year degrees related to the creative industries.
It is located in purpose-built accommodation on the Hebei University east campus in Baoding.
Baoding is a politically important city only 36 minutes by fast train to Beijing, in Hebei Province, NE China.
Over 750 students are currently enrolled on 6 UCLan franchised degree programmes.
There is capacity to grow to 800 students and we're in the process of expanding a postgraduate and research prevision.
Up to 50 students per year have the option of studying part of their programme at the UCLan Preston campus in the UK.
Hebei University (HBU) has established co-operative links with over 100 top universities around the world, making it a hub of innovative education.
HBU is a pilot university designated by China’s Training and Research Center for Overseas Study of Ministry of Education.
It was the first one approved to receive Chinese government scholarships in Hebei Province.
HBU have also founded Chinese language teaching centres in Russia, Malaysia and other countries.
HBU also have two Confucius Institutes in Pontifical Catholic University in Rio de Janeiro and Xavier University in Louisiana.
3 Masters programmes have also now been validated for the Joint School:
These MA programmes are based on the China model of a 3 year programme (compulsory for Masters level study in China).
The UCLan validated MA titles will be offered as Year 2 of the scheme and students will have the opportunity to study this phase on campus in Preston, although with a proportion of teaching from UCLan across all 3 years.
Students successfully completing the above programmes will be awarded a dual degree (HBU as well as UCLan).
Phone: (+86) 0312-5073398 / 0312-5073399
Email: hbuuclan5073393@163.com
Address: No.
2666, Qiyi East Road, Lianchi District, Baoding, Hebei Province, P.R.
China
Hunan Normal University, China
Our partnership with Hunan Normal University (HNU) is relatively new, with the very first students enrolling on our joint BSc (Hons) Sport and Physical Education course in September 2018.
This major new collaboration has been endorsed by China’s Ministry of Education.
Upon graduation, students will be awarded both HNU and University of Central Lancashire degrees.
HNU, founded in 1938, is a higher education institution in Changsha, Hunan Province.
It is a highly ranked institution (4 th in Hunan and 79 th nationally).
HNU is a Project 211 university, designated as one of the country’s 100 key universities and given priority when obtaining national funds.
It is also a Chinese Ministry of Education Double First Class Discipline University, a major government initiative to comprehensively develop a group of elite universities into ‘world-class universities’ by 2050.
It is a multi-disciplinary institution offering a wide range of courses in everything from journalism to medicine.
It is particularly well regarded for teacher education and training, foreign language studies, and Chinese literature and history.
Franchised programme:
BA (Hons) Sport and Physical Education
Find out more about the Hunan Normal University on their website.
Phone: 00 86-731-88872245 Email: oiec@hunnu.edu.cn
Communication Section, Office of International Exchange and Cooperation Hunan Normal university, Room 126, Mulanlou 36 Lushan Rd, Yuelu District Changsha, Hunan 410081 PR China
Shanghai University of International Business and Economics, China
Our partnership with Shanghai University of International Business and Economics (SUIBE) is a long-standing one.
It began in 2000 with the delivery of our English for International Business course.
Back then they were known as the Shanghai Institute of Foreign Trade.
SUIBE was first established as a Department of Foreign Languages for Foreign Trade.
Then, in June 2013, Shanghai Institute of Foreign Trade secured Chinese Ministry of Education approval to become the Shanghai University of International Business and Economics.
They offer a broad range of programmes and courses in English for International Business, English Language and Literature, Journalism, Teaching Chinese as a Foreign Language (CTCFL), French and Japanese.
SUIBE have developed their curriculum to reflect the globalised nature of business.
They equip graduates with a global vision and high calibre skills in language, culture and communication.
The University’s mission is to advance the strengths of Shanghai and China in international trade and economics.
SUIBE is actively engaged in high-level research in fields related to international trade through various research institutes.
Find out more about Shanghai University of International Business and Economics on their website .
Phone: 00 86 2152067528 Email: siftls@163.com
1900 Wenxian Road University Park of Songjiang District Shanghai 201600 PR China
Ras Laffan Emergency and Safety College (RLESC), Qatar
Our partnership with Ras Laffan Emergency and Safety College in Doha, Qatar was established under an agreement between Qatar Petroleum and Texas A&M Engineering Extension Service.
It is the first institution of its kind in the Middle East and includes training facilities for industrial, hazardous material, municipal, rescue and emergency medical services.
Qatar Petroleum (QP) and the Qatar Ministry of Interior (MOI) have established the Ras Laffan Emergency and Safety College (RLESC) to deliver training courses in Qatar and the MENA region.
Texas A&M Engineering Extension Service (TEEX) have over 80 years of experience in training emergency professionals and they are responsible for delivering certified and non-certified training at the RLESC.
TEEX trains more than 81,000 emergency responders in over 45 different countries each year.
RLESC provides training and programmes in Industrial Firefighting, Airport Rescue and Firefighting (ARFF), Civil Firefighting, Hazardous Materials, Defensive Driving, and Rescue and Marine Firefighting.
The Middle East’s leading fire and emergency training facility is a place where emergency responders, safety practitioners and fire service professionals come to take their careers to the next level and beyond.
They are renowned for recreating realistic training scenarios so that they provide a flavour of real-life experiences.
As our partner since 2015, RLESC offers diplomas in higher education and bachelor’s degree programmes in International Fire Safety Management, Emergency and Crisis Management, and International Fire Safety Engineering.
Phone:
University Programmes: 00 974 40136254/40132343/40132954 Vocational Programmes: 00 974 40132339/40138677 Email: info@rlesc.qa
Address: P.O.
Box 3212, Doha, Qatar https://www.qp.com.qa
Universal College Lanka (EDUKO Lanka), Sri Lanka
Universal College Lanka (UCL) delivers innovative and exciting programmes, working alongside institutions who strive for excellence within their students.
It is fully owned by Eduko Lanka, a private education services company serving high performing students and professionals.
UCL prides itself on being a transnational educational institution in Sri Lanka.
Our partnership focuses on delivering excellent bachelor’s degree programmes in International Business and Software Engineering.
With a focus on the student experience, UCL’s mission is to offer the highest standards of higher education in Sri Lanka.
Their courses provide students with vital skills, opportunities for personal development and exposure to a variety of industries.
Their students are inspired to become future leaders who can contribute to social and economic development within Sri Lanka and internationally.
The campus is conveniently located in Sri Lanka’s capital, in a picturesque location bordering the historical Diyawanna Lake, offering stunning panoramic views.
Find out more about Universal College Lanka on their website .
Phone: +94 112 080 080 Email: info@ucl.lk
Address: Universal College Lanka 503,Sri Jayawardenepura Mawatha, Rajagiriya, Sri Lanka
Uzhhorod National University, UzhNU
Established in 1945, Uzhhorod National University is one of the classic universities in Ukraine.
It has a long and rich history providing access to higher education and research.
The university teaches approximately 15,000 students in the city of Uzhhorod, situated on the western border separating Ukraine and Slovakia.
In total, the UzhNU has 20 Faculties with key specialisms in Medicine and Science.
The university has established a strong international reputation, featuring in the World University Rankings 2024.
It was named the 12th best Ukrainian university and 1501st in the world.
Following the rise of the conflict in 2022, the city of Uzhhorod has provided home and shelter to thousands of displaced adults and children from across the country.
UCLan formally pledged its support to help the people of Ukraine by twining with Uzhhorod National University (UzhNU) in June 2022.
The partnership concentrates efforts on specific areas including the provision of English Language to staff and students, access to online learning resources and a collaborative approach towards research and knowledge exchange.
Find out more about Uzhhorod National University on their website.
Address: 88000, Ukraine, Transcarpathian region, Uzhhorod, Narodna Square, 3 Telephone: +38 (03122) 3-33-41 Fax: +38 (03122) 3-42-02 E-mail: official@uzhnu.edu.ua I Webmaster: admin@uzhnu.edu.ua I  Media: media@uzhnu.edu.ua
American University of the Caribbean School of Medicine (AUC)
For more than 40 years, AUC School of Medicine has been fulfilling its mission to train globally minded, community driven physicians who specialize in providing expert, collaborative care.
Our innovative Medical Doctor (MD) Degree offers an integrated medical education programme, designed to develop an in-depth understanding of different healthcare systems and patient populations rooted in a team-based learning culture, a legacy of community engagement, and cross-cultural learning opportunities via clinical rotations and residency at our network of AUC affiliated clinical sites in the USA and United Kingdom.
We believe that the complex healthcare landscape of tomorrow will require a different type of doctor—one who is globally minded and capable of working as part of a cohesive team to deliver empathetic,
extraordinary care to a diverse patient population.
AUC School of Medicine’s internationally recognised medical programme offers a rigorous academic experience modelled after the U.S.
medical school curriculum, designed to prepare students to succeed on all parts of the United States Medical Licensing Examination® (USMLE).
Our students learn from knowledgeable and dedicated faculty members, and are able to train in unique global settings.
With transformative clinical opportunities in the United States, United Kingdom and abroad, our students develop an in-depth understanding of different healthcare systems and diverse patient populations.
This is a four-year programme with the first two years focused on studying the medical sciences and understanding how to integrate foundational knowledge with clinical practice.
The final two years are spent completing core clinical clerkships across AUC School of Medicine’s wide network of affiliated teaching hospitals.
Find out more about the American University of the Caribbean School of Medicine (AUC) on their website , Twitter @AUCmed , Facebook @AUCmed or Instagram @AUCmed_edu .
Phone: + 866-372-2282
Email: AUCInternational@aucmed.edu
Address, AUC UK Track Location:
University of Central Lancashire, Vernon Building Room 64, Sizer Street, Preston, Lancashire, PR1 1JQ.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/international-students/country:
Please choose your country or territory below to see indicative entry and language requirements for your chosen course alongside key contacts to help start your journey for studying with us in the UK.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/international-students/how-to-apply:
Are you an international student thinking about studying at a UK university?
See our information about how to apply, including entry requirements, the visa process, and bursaries and scholarships.
If you’re an international student looking to study in the UK, contact the representative in your country for advice.
They will be available to offer expert advice, guidance and support to help you with your application.
If you’re from outside the UK and want to study with us, you can make your application one of two ways – either via the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS) or via our online applications portal .
Before submitting your application, you should first check the specific entry requirements for the course in relation to your home country or place of study, as well as the English language requirements, to ensure you are eligible.
For those within the EU, you should apply via UCAS rather than directly.
If you are experiencing any issues with completing the online application form, or if you have any questions in relation to your application, please email the International Team inbox .
Thinking of applying for medicine?
We have put together some guidance to help you with your application.
If you do not meet the entry requirements for a course, you could complete a foundation programme with OnCampus or another of our recognised international foundation providers .
This will allow you to progress onto a degree at the university.
If you're looking to start your postgraduate application and you're from outside the UK, you can apply for our postgraduate courses via our online application portal .
You’ll simply need to create an account and work through the application steps as indicated.
In general, our postgraduate programmes require a minimum of a lower second class degree from a recognised university, or a professional qualification deemed to be equivalent.
In some cases you will need to submit a proposal as part of your degree.
Before starting your online application, you should first check the entry requirements and English language requirements in relation to your home country or place of study to ensure you are eligible.
If you are experiencing any issues with completing the online application form, or have any questions about the application process, please contact international@uclan.ac.uk
We have an established research reputation in a wide range of academic disciplines and on completion of your research degree, you should be in a very strong position for pursuing your chosen career.
Find out more about how to apply for postgraduate research in the UK .
We accept a range of English language qualifications including IELTS, TOEFL and Pearson Test of English.
We can also accept some country specific qualifications.
What we can accept as proof of English language level can vary depending on level of study and sometimes the course.
For the general English language requirements we accept, please take a look at our English entry requirements webpage .
If you would like to check whether we can accept local qualifications, please check your country or region’s entry requirements page .
Please view our admission deadlines for international applicants below
The University of Central Lancashire is a diverse environment, which brings people into contact with each other in a wide variety of ways.
The University community includes students who are children (those under the age of 18) and vulnerable adults.
We have a duty to safeguard these groups of individuals, as well as a duty to provide a safe environment in which our staff can work and all of our students can study and where relevant, live.
We therefore ask all applicants who have accepted a place with us if they have relevant unspent criminal convictions obtained in the UK or other jurisdiction.
This is so that we can consider the implications of any convictions, assess any risks to you or others within the University environment and determine whether we can reasonably manage any risks to enable you to take up your place here.
Having a relevant unspent conviction therefore is not an automatic barrier to taking up your place on your chosen programme.
Therefore, if you accept an offer the University will ask you to disclose details about relevant unspent convictions and supporting information.
Find out whether you need a visa, how to apply, and what documents you may need.
Looking for the English language requirements for international students?
Take a look at the English qualification requirements you would need to study at the University of Central Lancashire.
We believe that opportunity creates success, and that’s why we offer a range of attractive bursaries, scholarships, funds and discounts to our prospective students to give them a helping hand along the way.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/study/fees-and-finance/bursaries-and-scholarships:
We want you to excel no matter what your background.
We have a number of scholarships and bursaries available to support you whilst studying with us.
Scholarships are available for a number of areas and are based on academic excellence.
Additionally, for those interested in postgraduate research, please visit our studentships page.
If you find yourself in financial hardship whilst studying with us, we may also be able to offer some financial support through one of our discretionary hardship funds.
For further information about the financial support we offer, please email our Student Support Team .

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/international-students/english-requirements:
Take a look at the qualification requirements needed to study here.
Some courses may have higher English language requirements than the standard ones outlined on the table below.
These are indicative requirements only.
Where available, the IELTS One Skill Retake result is accepted.
The required score for the IELTS One Skill Retake must meet the same standard as our English entry requirement for the standard IELTS test.
Cambridge English: First (FCE) - B2
Cambridge English: Advanced (CAE) - C1
Cambridge English: Proficiency (CPE) - C2
Cambridge IGCSE English as a First Language (Syllabus 0500 and 0522)
Grade C
Minimum scores:
Reading – Grade E
Writing – Grade E
Speaking – Grade D (0522) or 2 (0500)
Listening – Grade D (0522) or 2 (0500)
Cambridge IGCSE English as a Second Language (Syllabus 0510 and 0511)
Reading – Grade D
Writing – Grade D
Speaking – Grade C (0511) or 2 (0510)
Listening – Grade C
6.0 (with no component score lower than 5.5)
SELT from UKVI approved centres.
We vouch for tests taken at other centres where appropriate Validity is two years of course commencement date*
International Baccalaureate
LanguageCert Academic
Edvoy New College Group Pre-Sessional English
OnCampus Test of English (OCTOE)
Pearson Test of English- Academic UKVI or Home
TOEFL Ibt including Home Edition (Note: we do NOT accept TOEFL ITP or TOEFL Essentials)
80 with minimum subscores of :
Reading 10
Listening 10
Speaking 17
Writing 19
Trinity College –Integrated Skills in English
Kings Pre-sessional - Westminster
Kaplan Test of English
UCLan Test of English Language Level (TELL and eTELL)
65% with no component below 50%
Taken either as an independent test, completion of Pre-sessional or completion of Study Overseas programme
PSI Services: ‘Skills for English UKVI’
Successful completion of Skills for English B2- Pass overall
Cambridge English: First
Cambridge English: Advanced
Cambridge English: Proficiency
7.0 in all components
We vouch for tests taken at other centres Validity is two years of course commencement date Same validity required for entry to MBBS
(SL or HL: Language A: Literature (English); Language A: Language and Literature; Language B; English 2)
IGCSE
LanguageCert International ESOL
C1 Pass with minimum 33 in each skill
SELT – in centre only
O level / I GCSE
Pearson Test of English Academic UKVI and Home
TOEFL iBT
Overall score of 97 and component scores of:
Reading 24
Listening 24
Speaking 23
Writing 26
Trinity College – Integrated Skills in English
ISEIII with pass in all component
C1 Test needed
50% with no component below 40% If student has taken B2 test, 80% in all components required
Taken either as independent test; completion of Pre-Sessional or completion of Study Overseas Programme
Postgraduate (IELTS 6.0 with no component below 5.5) English language requirements.
University of Central Lancashire Pre-sessional English for Academic Purposes
Cambridge IGCSE English As A First Language
(Syllabus 0500 And 0522)
Minimum score of D
Cambridge IGCSE English As A Second Language
(Syllabus 0510 And 0511)
Edvoy
New College Group Pre-Sessional English
6.0 with no component score lower than 5.5
We vouch for tests taken at other centres where appropriate
Validity is two years of course commencement date.
One component is available for a re-test (accepted as a component score of 5.5 or above)
Certificate MUST be used in conjunction with a full IELTs test.
B2 Pass with minimum 65 in each skill
SELT (in centre only)
Oxford International English Test Centre – OIETC – delivered by Oxford International Digital Institute
English Language Level Test
Pearson Test of English-Academic UKVI or Home
61 with minimum 59 in each component
TOEFL iBT including Home Edition
We do not accept TOEFL ITP or TOEFL Essentials
86 (with minimum grades of
Reading 15
Listening 15
Speaking 18
Writing 22
ISEII or ISEIII - pass in all four components
SELT – only when taken at a UK centre.
We vouch for tests taken at other centres Validity is two years of course commencement date
Taken either as an independent test, completion of pre-sessional or completion of Study Overseas programme
65%
458 overall with a minimum sub-score of 442
Postgraduate (IELTS 6.5 with no component below 6.0) English language requirements.
Minimum score of C
Or grade 2 in 0510
6.5 with no component score lower than 6.0
65 overall with 59 in each component
75% with no component below 65%

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/campuses/explore:
There’s no need to wait for an Open Day to see UCLan.
Take a look around our Preston, Burnley and Westlakes campuses.
View our 360 photos and take a guided tour of each campus.
Social spaces
Our Preston Campus is full of comfortable spaces were you can relax in between lectures, meet up with friends or even do some group study.
Many of our social spaces have facilities to heat up food, make a brew or even play table tennis.
Accommodation
Living in our halls provides a fantastic way to immerse yourself into university life.
We provide a variety of comfortable and modern living spaces.
Campus eateries
On our Preston Campus there are a range of on-campus cafés, canteens and shops.
Perfect for when you need to grab a bite to eat or a coffee in between study.
Student support
Located at the heart of our Preston Campus, the Student Centre has everything you need all under one roof.
Inside you’ll discover a huge range of support services focused on you.
Library
Preston library is the ideal space for quiet study, providing comfortable, flexible study spaces and a wealth of excellent learning resources.
It's also open 24 hours a day during term time.
Sports facilities
All students can use the Sir Tom Finney Sports Centre in the heart of campus.
At our sports hall and arena there is something for everyone.
Students' Union
Our Students' Union is the hub of student life.
It's your one stop shop for clubs, societies, events, trips, advice, representation and more.
Facilities
Find out more about the facilities on our Preston Campus.
Discover what university life is like by visiting us at our next Open Day.
If you can't make it, book a campus tour with one of our friendly students.
Victoria Mill, an iconic grade II listed building, is a beautiful place to study.
Explore the specialised facilities, flexible learning spaces and areas to relax between lectures.
Home to high-quality teaching spaces, specialised course facilities and social space.
We share this building with Burnley College, so you’ll get to meet even more new friends.
Sandygate Mill is home to the Burnley Campus Students’ Union and Burnley Library.
Our 136-room, fully-equipped student accommodation overlooks the Leeds and Liverpool canal.
If you feel like exploring our campus and Burnley at your own pace, our self-guided walking tour is ideal.
It’s the perfect way to discover your potential new hometown.
Who better to give you the lowdown on university life than one of our students?
They’ll guide you around our friendly campus, show you our facilities and happily chat about what life is really like here.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/business:
Grow your business with the University of Central Lancashire.
You can access a range of services, including training, consultancy, research and innovation.
We can assess the needs of your business and help you develop practical, real-world solutions through a range of services.
Degree Apprenticeships provide a way to equip your workforce with the latest skills and knowledge.
You can upskill an existing employee or hire an apprentice.
They will spend four days a week at your business.
Join our Apprenticeship Matching Service to find future talent.
Looking for fresh ideas in your business?
Our students and graduates bring current knowledge and all the latest skills.
Advertise your vacancies for free and connect with our talent pool.
Explore internship opportunities, placement modules, and recruitment.
Browse our wide range of facilities and equipment which facilitate learning, teaching and the sharing of knowledge across our community.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/business/apprenticeships:
Explore the benefits of bringing an apprentice on board.
Find out how to integrate apprentices into your workforce and the support on offer.
Our Degree Apprenticeships are tailored to meet industry needs.
Courses are taught by experts and informed by the latest knowledge.
We focus on building real-world skills, which apprentices can apply to your business.
Apprentices will spend four days a week at your business and one day a week on-campus.
You can hire an apprentice or upskill an existing employee.
Our Apprenticeship Matching Service will help you with hiring the perfect apprentice for your role.
We'll provide you with support throughout the full recruitment process.
You can also attend our SPARK event to meet and interview potential candidates.
We have a huge bank of talent available.
Higher and Degree Apprenticeships allow you to generate new talent within your business.
Our courses are taught by academic experts and tailored to meet industry needs.
Apprentices can take what they learn in the classroom and apply it to your business.
Our courses are taught by academic experts and industry leaders, equipping apprentices with the latest knowledge.
They can use this to bring new ideas and perspectives to your business.
Turn your weakness into a strength.
You can find an apprentice to fill a specific skill gap, such as marketing, design, engineering and more.
The option to complete a Higher or Degree Apprenticeship can improve employee satisfaction and retention.
It shows that you are willing to invest in your workforce and give them the opportunity to advance.
Apprenticeships can be part of your plan of succession for your business, by ensuring important skills are retained within your workforce.
Your business could receive up to 95% government funding to support apprenticeship training.
Find out more information about funding.
Training 2000 are an educational charity who provide Level 2-5 apprenticeships.
There are a wide range of courses available in business, building, dentistry and more.
Our partnership with Training 2000 makes it easy for apprentices to progress onto Higher Education.
We are one of the largest providers of Higher and Degree Apprenticeships.
We have worked with thousands of employers from a range of industries.
This includes BAE, Network Rail, Royal Mail and the NHS.
We provide extensive support to employers.
Our team will be on hand throughout, from helping you hire an apprentice, to the onboarding process.
We use subcontractors in certain subject areas.
This allows us to provide the best service possible, by partnering with specialist providers.
The University will also subcontract the delivery of English and Maths functional skills where an individual does not already hold or cannot demonstrate that they hold the qualifications in these subjects required by the Department for Education funding rules.
Selection and procurement of subcontractors will be carried out in accordance with the University's Procurement Code.
Where any element of the programme, including English and Maths, is subcontracted to the employer or another provider, they must be either a Main or Supporting Provider on the Department for Education’s register of Apprentice Training Providers or a registered Employer Provider.
The use of delivery subcontractors is agreed with employers prior to the commencement of the apprenticeship programme.
As the main provider of an apprenticeship, the University will provide governance and quality assurance for all delivery under the apprenticeship, including delivery by subcontractors.
The approval and oversight of any apprenticeship subcontractors is managed via the University's existing quality management processes.
All subcontractors have a contractual relationship with the University and are required to undergo rigorous quality assurance processes and remain compliant with the Department for Education Apprenticeship Funding Rules.
The contract between the University and the subcontractor provides transparency as to the costs of the subcontracted delivery and is available for review by the Department for Education as required.
The University does not charge a management fee when subcontracting apprenticeship training provision.
The University declares subcontractor arrangements to the Department for Education as required and where subcontracting activity exceeds £100,000 annually, the University will obtain an independent auditors’ report.
The University’s current subcontracting partners are:
Find out more about the funding available and Apprenticeship Levy .
There are many types of apprenticeship.
Degree apprenticeships, on completion, result in the awarding of an undergraduate or postgraduate degree.
A Higher Apprenticeship is a qualification at Level 4 or 5, while a Degree Apprenticeship is a full bachelor’s degree at Level 6.
Our Degree Apprenticeships take between three and six years to complete (depending on the level of study).
We align each course with nationally recognised Apprenticeship Standards.
These outline the skills and proficiencies learners will gain.
As well as the career path they'll be qualified to follow after completion.
Our portfolio of Higher and Degree Apprenticeships is growing all the time.
Together with Training 2000 we now offer a comprehensive range of apprenticeships.
From Level 2 right through to Level 7, with clear pathways between qualifications.
Whatever level your employees are at, and whatever your business needs are, we’re the place to go for high-quality training.
Our programmes will help your employees and your organisation to grow and develop.
Our standard start dates for Degree Apprenticeship programmes are January, March, May, September and November.
Our standard lead time required from initial discussions with your organisation to your employees starting an apprenticeship with us is usually three months before the course start date.
A Degree Apprenticeship allows your employee to gain a degree, while still working.
They will spend four days a week at work and one day a week studying (on-campus or online).
They will complete the lessons and assessments they need for a degree during this time.
A Degree Apprenticeship combines work with higher-level learning.
The apprentice works for an employer, but spends at least 6 hours per week studying.
Degree Apprentices are aged 18 or over, they can be new or current employees.
We can assist in the delivery of English and Maths functional skills where an individual does not already hold the qualifications in these subjects required by the ESFA funding rules.
You can find our complaints procedure and policy for employers of apprentices on our complaints procedure webpage.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/business/training:
We deliver training and CPD courses tailored to meet industry needs.
Take a look at our comprehensive offering.
Our Continuing Professional Development (CPD) courses are designed by experts to meet industry needs.
Keep your employees up-to-date with the latest knowledge and practice.
We offer courses in areas, such as:
Some courses are industry specific, while others are applicable across industries.
There are various delivery options, including online learning or in-person.
We also offer accredited courses, which meet professional body requirements.
Make sure you check this before you book.
Some of our CPD courses are also credit-bearing, meaning employees can use it towards a formal qualification.
Find out more about how hiring an apprentice or upskilling an employee can enhance your business.
We regularly host workshops and events that can benefit your business.
Workshops focus on a particular skill, such as leadership or cybersecurity.
We often hold conferences, where speakers share their insight and experience.
Our networking events bring businesses together to forge connections and share ideas.
If you can't find a course that meets your needs, we can design bespoke learning for your business.
We can reach out to experts across the university to share the latest knowledge and insight.
We also have strong industry connections, who regularly provide guest lectures at the university.
This means that together we can create a course that meets your needs.
Nursing and healthcare Develop your skills in a specific area of healthcare with our range of health and nursing short courses .
Health and safety Protect your business with a range of health and safety short courses, from general health and safety qualifications through to fire prevention.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/business/research-and-innovation:
We collaborate with businesses to enhance the North West economy through cutting-edge research and initiatives.
The University of Central Lancashire produces world-class research with real-world applications.
Our commitment to knowledge exchange ensures that our findings do not just remain within academia, but reach the organisations who can implement change.
We achieve this through training, business services and consultancy.
Find out the ways our research and innovation can help your business.
Knowledge Transfer Partnerships are a government-funded programme.
They involve a collaboration between the business, an academic and a recent graduate.
The academic will provide knowledge and insight.
The graduate will then apply this knowledge to the business, looking for ways to innovate and improve.
Knowledge Transfer Partnerships can help to drive businesses forward, providing expert guidance and access to resources.
The Innovation Lab work collaboratively with businesses to provide a range of creative solutions.
Our multi-skilled team can help you with media production, web and app development, and virtual reality.
They also offer digital twinning, which can be used for prototyping, simulation and refining.
This programme is open to businesses in Preston and Burnley.
It aims to drive innovation through access to our expertise and services, as well as other universities in Lancashire.
These services include development, product testing and marketing.
There is also an option for businesses to undertake student placements.
We assist with licensing intellectual property and commercialisation.
We have a vibrant research culture, so there are lots of opportunities for businesses to engage, collaborate and license our intellectual property.
We can also help to commercialise your products and make your business investment-ready.
You can hire specialist facilities in our Engineering Innovation Centre.
We can provide tailored training in areas like product design and low carbon technology, as well as demonstrations on how to use the latest equipment.
You can also hire meeting spaces for peer-to-peer learning.
Developed by Research England
The Knowledge Exchange Framework (KEF) has been developed by Research England.
The framework provides information on knowledge exchange delivered and facilitated by Higher Education Providers in England.
A driver of knowledge exchange across England
The KEF allows universities to better understand their own performance in knowledge exchange.
KEF drives improvements across English universities, helping people access our world-class knowledge.
We have strength and depth in knowledge exchange
Our KEF results show strengths in diverse knowledge exchange activities.
We rank in the top 20% for three out of seven of the eight main categories .

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/business/research-and-innovation/ktp:
We help businesses to improve competitiveness, productivity and performance.
Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs) are a three-way collaboration.
They are a government-funded programme through Innovate UK.
We can help you bring innovative ideas to fruition through collaboration and in partnership with our University experts.
Your project will have access to our knowledge, technology and skills supported by a qualified KTP associate.
We are here to help.
We have a dedicated and highly experienced KTP team here at the University of Central Lancashire who can provide your business with support throughout the process.
Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs) aim to help businesses improve their competitiveness and productivity through the better use of knowledge, technology and skills within the UK knowledge base.
University Partnership with Silentnight Group helps consumers make smarter decisions
KTP is a partnership between your business and the University.
If your business enters into partnership with us, we will:
A KTP with us will help you and your business to:
KTPs are available to UK-based businesses of any size including not-for-profit organisations such as social enterprises and charities
On average the total annual cost of a KTP is £75k.
A KTP will give your business access to help with funding of between 50-67% through Innovate UK making KTPs the perfect way to improve your business
Need help to achieve effective management and leadership?
Find out more about Management KTPs (mKTPs) and what they can do for your business.
The IP is for the University and the company to agree prior to making the application.
There is no absolute rule regarding the ownership of IP to Innovate UK, so it is all about the agreement between the University and the company on who owns what.
We have IP experts who can provide guidance and advice around IP-related queries.
It depends on what you require, but the University has expertise in all sorts of areas.
We have a structured and supporting team and a strong existing network of relationships with academics and companies.
Applicants fill out a fact-finding form, we will provide guidance and advice on how to complete the form appropriately.
The form is about outlining your area of interest or ideas and how it will benefit the business, the University and KTP associate.
It is important to highlight how the KTP project will provide benefit to your business.
Developing the proposal with the KTP advisors and academics takes 4-8 weeks.
Once the proposal is submitted it is assessed and scored, which takes 8-10 weeks.
Once approved we’ll discuss the details of the KTP programme with you regarding a timeline and a project plan.
We accept applications throughout the year.
The associate is the bridge between the business and the University, sharing and implanting the knowledge from the University into the business.
We do the actual research, gather data and make sure the work is completed in the way the business wants.
An associate provides flexibility in developing the research and accessing our resources so that the business can then mould the research to suit their business.
There is a standard budget of Continual Professional Development (CPD) of £2000 per annum for the associate.
The University provides general management training for all associates.
During the KTP process, we have a team ready to provide coaching and mentoring for the associates who can, depending on the project, get extra funding as a part-time PhD fee if they want to.
75% of the host businesses typically offer a job to the associate they worked with and about 65% of associates accept the role.
Yes, as long as there is a good working relationship with the business through a mix of in-person and online meetings, it is likely to equate to working half a day a week.
There is an intensive preparation stage before the grant funding is passed, which can be time-consuming and may exceed that number.
Once the project starts, the academic works closely with the company and the associate to make sure everything is on track.
Find out more about Knowledge Transfer Partnerships

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/business/facilities:
We offer a range of specialist facilities and equipment, as well as meeting, training and event spaces designed to cater to your business' needs.
Our Engineering Innovation Centre has lots of services that can be accessed by your business.
This includes business support programmes, meeting and workshop spaces, and peer-to-peer learning opportunities.
You can also access our specialist equipment and technology.
At our Preston Campus, we have a wide selection of meeting, training and event spaces that are adaptable to suit your requirements.
Find out more about our venue hire options.
We have a huge range of state-of-the-art facilities and equipment located across our Preston, Burnley and Westlakes campuses.
This includes everything from sports facilities, laboratories, clinics and even crime scene houses.
Explore them all here.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/business/recruit-our-students:
Are you looking for someone to bring fresh ideas to your business?
Our students and graduates bring up-to-date knowledge, teamwork skills, project delivery, and flexibility.
You can register with us to advertise your vacancies to our students and graduates, it only takes a few minutes and is free of charge.
We encourage you to advertise your vacancies with us online and also to contact us about any of the ways in which you would like to interact with ourselves and our students.
Experience has shown that students undertaking a placement as part of their degree/postgraduate course rapidly become part of your workforce, and are able to make a real difference to business operations bringing fresh ideas, energy and current knowledge.
These programmes allow your business to employ students as a full-time member of staff for a fixed period, lasting for around 48 weeks for placement year students or shorter durations for students undertaking placement modules.
Your business can also tap into specific areas of research or expertise, as placements are supported by an academic from the University.
Recruiting an intern can be an excellent way to bring additional talent into your workplace, providing additional resources to the team to tackle a defined or new project, or perhaps helping to develop an area of work where up-to-date knowledge or research is required.
Internships are a period of paid work experience for students or graduates of between 2 to 16 weeks.
These normally take place over the Easter or summer period and works around business needs, being either part or full-time.
Internships are paid via the business and we can work with you to design the right type of internship for your business needs.
Disability Confident is creating a movement of change, encouraging employers to think differently about disability and act to improve how they recruit, retain and develop disabled people.
We are here to support your business to become a Disability Confident Employer , making it easily accessible, even for smaller businesses.
International students are a feature of all university campus locations and offer an excellent range of skills to potential employers at no cost or low cost options.
International students offer work experience, up to date skills and complement a diverse talent pool.
They also offer cultural and language skills that may not feature in your current talent pool.
If you're a business with international supply or distribution lines, they can be a real asset.
Read more about the benefits of recruiting international students on the BUILA website.
The Student Enterprise Hub offers organisations from a wide range of sectors a direct route to access imaginative and talented students.
The Doctoral Training Centre (DTC) offers a great opportunity for companies to work with academics and PhD students.
If you take part and complete a Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs) project with us, you could recruit your KTP Associate once the project has ended.
Your KTP Associate is a graduate of ours who can share and implant the knowledge from the University into your business.
Email: Careers team
Tel: +44 (0)1772 895858

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/business:
Our business articles focus on the wide range of specialist support and expertise available.
The aim is to help businesses and individuals to grow and develop.
We can help you turn your ideas into realities.
We achieve this through innovation and applied business research.
We give you the competitive edge you’re looking for.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/business/apprenticeships/ams:
We can help you employ the best future talent.
This is a free specialist recruitment package for employers looking to take on a degree apprentice.
We guide and support you from vacancy to appointment, finding the best talent with technical and motivational ability aligned with your company values.
We connect you with apprentices of all ages, widen participation, and recruit local talent to enhance your workforce and grow your business with a competitive advantage.
Our AMS will assist with your recruitment strategy by saving you time, money and resources.
We have a deep understanding of a variety of sectors and can respond quickly to your needs.
We have already successfully assisted businesses in appointing high-calibre apprentices to exclusive roles, so you can be confident that you’ll find a candidate who matches your company’s ambition and ethos.
The Apprenticeship Matching Service will support you with recruitment from the beginning by identifying the best talent to maximise your business’s potential.
We will identify each candidate’s technical and motivational ability whilst ensuring they align with your company values, resulting in long-term success.
Supporting you from vacancy to appointment, we give you access to a diverse pool of potential apprentices of all ages.
We provide a widening participation strategy by recruiting local talent into local jobs.
Join us on 4 July at our free Degree Apprenticeship Showcase.
Discover new programmes and explore how apprenticeships can support your talent strategy.
A business or organisation that has an apprenticeship vacancy can complete an Expression of Interest form .
Once the form’s completed, we’ll be in touch, and if you’re happy to progress you can then provide further details about your apprenticeship vacancy via an Employer Vacancy Form.
The apprenticeship vacancy will then be displayed on our website , plus various other platforms for potential learners to view and apply for.
After learners complete an application form our team will then undertake the task of matching them and forwarding to you for review and to arrange an interview if desired.
We’ll keep the learner informed every step of the way.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/research:
Our academics produce high-quality international and world-leading research that addresses today’s challenges.
At the University of Central Lancashire, we offer a wide range of postgraduate research-based degrees.
Our degrees are perfect for those pursuing an academic career and a future in research.
You'll get the opportunity to contribute to the advancement of human knowledge and make a positive difference to the world.
In the latest Research Excellence Framework (REF), a government assessment of the quality of research across UK Higher Education, two-thirds of our submissions were recognised as world-leading or internationally excellent.
This highlights our commitment to producing cutting-edge research and academic excellence.
Our longstanding mission to transform lives extends to every corner of the globe - from educating deaf students in India to solving crime and improving maternity care worldwide.
Our Research and Knowledge Exchange Institutes, established in 2024, enhance the quality of our research environment and create more opportunities to achieve world- leading impact through their activities.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/research/institutes:
Our Research and Knowledge Exchange Institutes are the home of world-class research that brings together expertise from across the University enabling us to provide real-world solutions and opportunities that have an impact on society.
All general research enquiries should be directed to Alexis Holden, Director of Research and Knowledge Exchange Service.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/research/services:
Our skilled and knowledgeable staff provide a professional, effective and holistic offering for researchers to support them in their research and enterprise journey, from ideas and training to funding, dissemination and knowledge exchange.
The service comprises six units :
The EEU is responsible for engaging with employers, liaising with academic and professional service colleagues working towards collaborative and positive outcomes.
Supporting degree apprenticeships, developing and delivering Knowledge Transfer Partnerships, development and promotion of CPD programmes with employers.
Supporting businesses through consultancy and contract research and providing a front door model for guidance and connection to the wider University.
The EEU provide advice and specialist support in the following areas:
Martin Blunt: Head of Enterprise and Engagement Unit
View our main business webpage for more information, or contact us via:
The Ethics, Integrity and Governance Unit (EIGU) is responsible for developing processes relating to Research Integrity at UCLan and for managing and overseeing the University ethics processes.
The EIGU is also responsible for performing the role of “sponsor” of clinical research (where appropriate).
The EIGU provide advice and specialist support in the following areas:
UCLan is proud to be the first European university to adopt the Global Code of Conduct for Research in Resource-Poor Settings (GCC) which is designed to prevent the export of unethical research practices to low and middle-income countries.
The EIGU has an active role in the promotion of the GCC and development of processes to ensure the code is applied.
Emma Law: Head of Ethics, Integrity and Governance Unit
Email ethicsinfo@uclan.ac.uk for further details.
The Graduate Research School is responsible for supporting the postgraduate research environment and culture, having oversight of the student journey, as well as hosting events and activities for the PGR community.
UCLan’s postgraduate research students (PGRs) each have their own team of supervisors to support them through their research programme.
More details about our postgraduate research degree programmes can be found on our Postgraduate Research page.
Andrea Ferguson: Head of Graduate Research School
Email GraduateSchool@uclan.ac.uk for further details.
Provides support to academics from the point at which they have research ideas and are looking for funding, through identifying funding opportunities, development of proposals (including their costing and pricing), the internal approval process for submission and submission to the funders.
When funding is awarded the team liaises with academics and the funder and works with the Contract team in Legal Services to ensure the contract for the project is negotiated and signed.
The GFU supports the academic throughout the project as a critical friend to ensure that the project is delivered, on time, to budget and to contract.
The GFU supports all proposals where external funding is sought, so as well as supporting applications to research funders e.g.
RCUK, NIHR, British Academy, The Royal Society, The Wellcome Trust; the Unit also provides support for applying for, or receiving funding from industries and charities.
This does not have to be for research work, activities which involve consultancy work, offering a testing and analysing service, or the offer of training e.g.
CPD, are also supported by the GFU.
Gillian Chew: Head of Grants and Funding Unit
Email GFUinfo@uclan.ac.uk for further details.
The Impact and Outputs Unit provides leadership and management for activities such as the Research Excellence Framework (REF), Knowledge Exchange Framework (KEF) and Knowledge Exchange Concordat (KEC)​; and the HR Excellence in Research Award and Researcher Development Concordat.
The IOU provide advice and support in the following areas:
The IOU supports Open Research, with UCLan research outputs and data freely accessible on our two repositories, Central Lancashire Online Knowledge (CLoK) and UCLanData .
We also champion Responsible Research Metrics.
UCLan is a signatory to the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment.
You can read the UCLan Responsible Research Metrics statement online .
The IOU also oversees researcher development activity, including the Research and Enterprise Training Programme, Research and Enterprise Induction, and responsibilities associated with the University’s HR Excellence in Research Award and Researcher Development Concordat.
For more information, visit our Academic development for research and enterprise webpage .
Allison McCaig: Head of Impact & Outputs Unit
Email researchassessment@uclan.ac.uk for further details.
The IPU supports research-active staff and students in protecting intellectual property arising from their research and in commercialising their work in order to maximize impact from the University’s research whether financial, reputational and/or societal.
If you are a business looking to partner with us to create commercial opportunities to license and develop intellectual property (IP), view our dedicated webpage .
The IPU help protect and/or commercialise ideas and research by:
Email innovationteam@uclan.ac.uk for further details.
The Service works with many regional partners on a variety of diverse projects to maximise the region’s potential for local growth and redevelopment through research, innovation and knowledge exchange.
Partners cover businesses and community groups and also include the Lancashire Enterprise Partnership, Lancashire County Council and its local authorities.
If you are interested in finding out more about our work, please contact Matthew Guest .

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/research/academic-development-research-enterprise:
The University's Research and Innovation Strategy addresses our research ambitions and aspirations.
The strategy is inclusive, supportive and ambitious.
It recognises and responds to the challenges and opportunities in the research environment.
Our People Strategy highlights the importance of “bringing together talented people from diverse backgrounds, whereby it creates an inspiring workplace where everybody matters, where they are viewed as individuals and encouraged to develop themselves and their careers” (People Team, 2021).
We put research, innovation and knowledge exchange at the centre of everything we do.
We support development activities for researchers and academics across diverse roles and at all career stages.
We're committed to the career development of all our researchers and academic colleagues, supporting them all to engage in innovation, enterprise, and knowledge exchange.
The University is a signatory to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers , 2019 (commonly known as the Researcher Development Concordat).
An agreement between funders and employers of research staff to improve the employment and support for researchers and researcher careers in UK Higher Education.
The Concordat has three defining principles covering environment and culture, employment, and professional and career development.
For each of these principles, the Concordat outlines the key responsibilities of the four main stakeholder groups: researchers, managers of researchers, institutions, and funders.
Our aim is to boost the quality, scope and capacity of our research activities; invigorating everything we do with evidence-based claims to be world-class.
This will be achieved by developing highly skilled researchers, promoting the value of building a research career upon a sound developmental foundation.
Our development approach is based upon Vitae's Researcher Development Framework (RDF), based on five progressive stages of career development for a researcher; along with the Research Development Statement (RDS) which sets out the knowledge, behaviour and attributes of effective and highly skilled researchers appropriate for a wide range of careers.
Further details are available on Vitae's website .
The University is committed to capturing and acting on the views of researchers and colleagues who support research and enterprise by using the Culture, Employment and Development in Academic Research Survey (CEDARS).
This survey gathers views on the research environment, working conditions, career aspirations and professional development opportunities for those conducting research.
CEDARS is managed and supported by Vitae.
The University of Central Lancashire has held the European HR Excellence in Research award since 2011.
The award acknowledges our alignment to the European Charter for Researchers and Code of Conduct for their recruitment.
The University has retained its HR Excellence in Research award following a ten year review by the UK Excellence in Research Panel.
Ten-year review (2022)
Two-year review (2013)
Four-year review (2015)
Six-year review (2018)
Eight-year review (2020)
Researchers are vital to the future of the University.
We aim to provide excellent career development support for all our research and enterprise staff, at all stages of their career.
We foster an agile, vibrant research and enterprise community through mentoring, peer support, tailored events and workshops.
We also host a number of career stage networks and events.
We have a bespoke mentoring programme for researchers, which complements the organisational mentoring programme run by the People Team.
This forms part of the University’s implementation of the Concordat to support the career development of researchers.
It also plays a key role in a number of strategic initiatives to support the development of staff across the University.
We pride ourselves on supporting the aspirations of the next generation of research leaders.
Our Early Career Research Network (ECRN) is open to all staff at an early stage in their research career, including Research Assistants, post-doctoral researchers, as well as senior staff engaging in research for the first time.
Our Mid-Career Research Network (MCRN) aims to support those in the middle stages of their research career within a structured forum.
MCRs (from all levels) come together regularly to share their research and build collaborations with others from different subject areas within the institution.
The College of Professors and Readers (CPR) is a grassroots group operated by its members.
The CPR is not affiliated with any of the University’s academic or service departments and as a community agrees on its own activities and ways of operation.
Researcher Skills Development Programme
We deliver a bespoke programme of events and workshops that are tailored to meet the needs of our researchers, whatever their career level.
This includes a comprehensive induction programme open to new and existing researchers/academic colleagues who require information around researcher development, grants and funding, ethics and integrity, open access, impact, working with business, intellectual property, and knowledge exchange.
We support our academic community with collaborative research opportunities, breaking down the barriers that block interdisciplinary work.
Our researchers and academics are encouraged to pool their knowledge and skills, ensuring they have every opportunity to make the next breakthrough.
Career Development support
Academic Development for Research and Enterprise are committed to supporting colleagues in their career development.
One of our programmes is tailored to new and existing researchers/academic colleagues who require information around, working with business, intellectual property, degree apprenticeships, knowledge exchange, local and regional engagement.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/research/strategy-and-policy:
Our research culture is ambitious, inclusive and supportive.
Our focus is on the continuous enhancement of the quality, scope and capacity of our research activities, in particular the development and evidence based achievements of our research staff and students.
We will guide the University towards becoming an intensive research institution by delivering excellence in research and knowledge exchange.
The work we engage in will bring about societal, economic, cultural and academic impact in collaboration with national and global communities, and public and private organisations.
Be the top modern university for research activity, beginning the journey of transforming from a research active to a research intensive institution.
Be the top modern university for knowledge exchange activity, establishing our position as a leading partner and collaborator, offering skills, knowledge and expertise.
Achieve research intensity that demonstrates originality, significance and rigour.
Our research will have a demonstrably positive impact on society, the economy, the cultural climate, the environment, and the University’s academic standing.
Achieve knowledge exchange activity that exceeds the aspirations and needs of external partners and beneficiaries.
Exploit the intellectual property derived from the University’s research and knowledge exchange achievements.
Contribute to the improvement of current curriculum and student opportunities through the integration of research, knowledge exchange and teaching developments.
Inspire organisations to grow their business - locally, nationally and internationally - through a skilled, proactive and engaged workforce.
Please note: We are currently in the process of updating our documents to meet government accessibility legislation.
If you require a copy of any of the documents listed on this page, please contact us.
If you require a copy of the full strategy please email Marketing Communications .
We are committed to increasing the visibility, use, impact and benefits of publicly funded research conducted by the university’s community by supporting the fundamental principles of Open Access in providing free and unrestricted access to its research outputs and their underpinning data.
We hope to promote discovery, citation, sharing and collaboration of our research by embracing Open Research with the development of its institutional repositories: CLoK and UCLanData.
If you require guidance on any issues relating to Open Research please contact The Open Research Team (ORT) situated within Research Services at:
Responsible use of research metrics is a policy area that has been rapidly rising up the Higher Education agenda in recent years with increasing pressure from policy-makers and funders for institutions to develop responsible metric statements.
We believe in fair and responsible use of metric indicators in the assessment of research and performance, recognising that application and usage can be complex and problematic, and not uniformly applicable across all disciplines.
Quantitative evaluation should support (and not replace) qualitative, expert assessment.
This Responsible Use of Research Metrics statement sets out ten key principles based on the Leiden Manifesto that we use to inform how metrics are used in measurement of research activity across the University.
The University is a signatory of The Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA) and a signatory of Coalition for Advancing Research Assessment CoARA.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/facilities:
We have a wide range of state-of-the-art facilities and equipment located across our Preston, Burnley and Westlakes campuses.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/jobs:
Discover our latest job vacancies at the University of Central Lancashire and take that next step in your career journey.
Joining the University of Central Lancashire means being part of a thriving community of talent, united in a commitment to transform the lives of our students and the communities we serve.
Whatever you are looking to do, we offer a range of career opportunities.
From academic and research roles, to management and support roles in areas such as HR, finance, marketing, security, cleaning and catering.
Take a look at our vacancies and find your next career step.
We deliver excellent teaching and learning and an unrivalled student experience.
World-leading research takes place across our campuses in Preston, Burnley, Blackburn, Westlakes and Cyprus.
We have over 550 courses in our portfolio .
These include undergraduate, postgraduate taught and research, degree apprenticeships and CPD.
We've transformed our Preston Campus with the opening of our Engineering Innovation Centre, Student Centre and University Square.
These transformations are for the benefit of our colleagues, students and the wider community.
Students in every corner of the world – from China to Malaysia to Sri Lanka – are studying degrees awarded by us.
We are proud to have gained various 5 Star (Excellent) accolades in the internationally recognised QS Stars 2022 ratings system.
Our University has a 4 QS Stars (Very Good) rating overall.
If you'd like more details about any of our jobs  or to find out more about working here, get in touch with our People Team and email peopleteam@uclan.ac.uk
We are proud of our diverse, inclusive, and cohesive campus community.
We are passionate about breaking down barriers and committed to providing an inclusive environment where everyone feels respected, valued, and that they belong.
Discover our EDI initiative
We deliver many learning and development opportunities and encourage colleague progression.
When you work at UCLan you'll also get access to LinkedIn learning.
LinkedIn Learning is an online educational platform that helps you discover key skills.
We promote positive mental health at work and have a range of preventative and responsive resources to support colleagues.
We use our values to promote positive working environments across our campus communities.
Our leaders advocate wellbeing through interactions with colleagues.
Our colleagues will act to support each other and our student community in their mental health and wellbeing.
We will:
We cannot:
We ask and encourage you to:
We are playing our part as a key Lancashire employer to boost the regional workforce by investing in our own colleagues and encouraging opportunities for all.
Find out more on the Lancashire Skills Pledge website .
The University of Central Lancashire is committed to supporting people in crisis and conflict.
We work closely with the Council for at-risk academics (Cara) and are proud to be part of the Cara UK Universities Network.
Cara provides urgent help to academics in immediate danger and those forced into exile.
In partnership universities, Cara offers practical and financial help, and assistance to reach a place of safety.
This support makes it possible for academics at risk to connect, during their period of exile, with colleagues within the wider academic and scientific communities, facilitating collaboration, enhancing skills and ending isolation, so that, when the moment comes, they are equipped to go back and help re-build their societies.
In addition, we support our academic community in undertaking postgraduate study through fully funded places - this year (21/22) we funded 2 places.
The University of Central Lancashire offers sanctuary to those academics who are at risk in their own countries, and as part of the Cara Fellowship programme provides financial support, fee waivers and other support for Cara beneficiaries.
Fellowships help academics in danger to escape to a safe place where they can continue their work.
For more information, please visit the Cara website or contact the Vice Chancellor’s Office .
UCLan is committed to providing a safe environment to study, work and visit, protecting children, young people and adults at risk from harm and abuse.
Our safeguarding policy and safer recruitment procedure outlines our approach, alongside other internal policies, procedures, guidance and Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) checks which can be found on our safeguarding webpages .
There are a range of paid ad-hoc working opportunities with us, for example you could work as a Student Ambassador, Guest Lecturer or Invigilator.
These opportunities are short-term, one-off or infrequent activities and are advertised / arranged by our Academic and Professional Services as and when required.
To see how we will use your information, see our privacy notice for ad hoc workers .
If you're interested in ad-hoc work, please complete the following steps:
Following completion of any ad hoc work with us, you will need to complete the ad hoc worker personal details statement and submit it to Payroll.
Unfortunately we do not accept speculative CVs and cannot keep them on file for GDPR reasons.
All our current vacancies are on the jobs vacancies of our website.
You can also sign up via email to be notified of any jobs you might be interested in.
The application process is the same for everyone and allows us to score all candidates fairly against the criteria for the role.
Incomplete applications will not be scored, and will potentially result in a candidate not being shortlisted.
You are welcome to upload your CV in addition to the application as a supporting document.
You will receive an email when your application has been updated at any point in the process.
Shortlisting can take up to four weeks after the closing date of a vacancy.
Sometimes this can take longer if the panel have other commitments.
When you work at the University of Central Lancashire you can enjoy a number of excellent rewards and benefits.
You'll also have our continued support throughout your career, helping you grow and progress at a pace that’s right for you.
Visit our 'Benefits of working at UCLan' page for more information.
The general premise for hybrid working across the University is 60% on campus and 40% remote.
However, each role within the University has its own requirements and some may require a higher presence on campus.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/alumni:
Whether you studied at the Harris, the Polytechnic or the University, you’ll always be part of our community.
Thousands of lifelong relationships began here, and they still do.
Sign up below to relive the memories, renew the friendships and take advantage of your alumni benefits package.
Whether it be careers advice, library and gym facilities or business support, we’re here to help you throughout your graduate life.
Our Alumni Magazine 2024 is now live and available to read.
With our latest news, expert views on topical subjects and a look back at the university over time, there's plenty to keep you entertained.
We'd love to stay in touch.
Please sign up and give your consent to receive information from us.
This is really important as we can only provide you with the benefits of being a graduate if we have your contact details and preferences.
Did you know that as one of our graduates you can get up to 20% discount on postgraduate study?
You also get dedicated study space in our brand-new Student Centre.
We have an extensive portfolio of postgraduate degrees available, including taught and research programmes, all to help you take that next step in your career.
Meet some of our graduates, hear their stories and follow their progress since studying with us at the University.
On Saturday 22 July 2023, hundreds of our alumni travelled from far and wide to relive their student days at a special celebratory event in Preston.
Graduates from the 1940s right through to the 2020s took a nostalgic walk down memory lane at the institution’s first reunion event for all alumni from all subjects and all years.
Know someone who has achieved great things after graduating from the University of Central Lancashire?
Our Alumni Achievement Awards celebrate the achievements of our global University alumni community.
Take advantage of our dedicated business start-up support for alumni.
We’ve already helped lots of alumni set up their own business or become self-employed so get in touch to see how we can help you.
Our alumni have access to the University’s state of the art Eye Clinic.
Eye tests starts at just £5 for a thorough eye test and glasses and contact lenses are available at very competitive prices.
We have a wide range of University merchandise available to purchase
Alumni are former students who have graduated from our university.
Our alumni have lifetime access to all of the support available at the University of Central Lancashire.
This includes careers advice, library and gym facilities or business support.
As a graduate of the University, you can access the library and borrow up to four books free of charge.
To be issued with a library card please visit the library reception desk with two forms of photographic ID (passport or driving licence) and proof of address (bank statement or utility bill).
You'll then be issued a library card which you can use to swipe in and out of the library.
Please note, this does not allow you to use electronic resources such as online journals, as they are not licensed for alumni use.
You can use your own device on-site and gain access to our public Wi-Fi.
To become a member of the sports centre you'll first need to join the library.
You'll then need to take your card to Sir Tom Finney Sports Centre, where your membership will be processed.
You'll need to take a payment method with you.
The cost is £12.50 per month (minimum three months) or £130 per year (paid upfront).
As an alumnus of the University, you're entitled to full lifelong access to our careers service.
To access our online careers platforms, complete the alumni update form and tick the careers box.
You can buy a duplicate certificate or transcript by visiting our online shop .
We can issue replacement certificates, statements of achievement and attendance, replacement transcripts and DOATAP documents.
Please note, the alumni team can't supply any of this documentation.
If you have a specific query please email the Awards Office .
Details about your graduation will get sent to you once your results are processed and the ceremonies scheduled.
Please make sure we have your up to date contact details, including your personal email address, as your UCLan email will be closed once you've finished your studies.
Also check out our upcoming graduation events .
For information about postgraduate, CPD and research study, see our postgraduate study page .
As a graduate of UCLan, you may be entitled to a 20% Alumni Loyalty Discount .
Please email the Alumni Team to see if we can help you get in touch with your former classmates.
We love helping people to reconnect.
You can search for current academic staff via our website .
We don't currently offer a formal mentoring scheme but you can volunteer to help our students.
You could offer talks, work placements, job opportunities and more.
Email the Alumni Team to see how you can help.
Giving continues to play a fundamental role in the development of both the University and the students we serve.
Give to UCLan today and make a difference.
We host a wide variety of events open to the public.
These include performances & exhibitions, alumni, sport & outdoor events, public lectures, festivals & more.
The Graduate Outcomes survey is a UK-wide survey capturing the activities and viewpoints of some graduates 15 months after finishing their studies.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/giving:
Our students directly benefit from the generous support of our donors and benefactors.
We support our students in achieving their dreams through the donations of generous individuals.
Philanthropic giving plays an important role in the development of both the University and the students we serve.
Donations give students access to funds that help them through hardships, or reward them for outstanding work in their field.
Students use these funds to help complete their studies.
Having access to funds helps cover additional costs such as study equipment, as well as aiding with cost of living during their time with us.
Your contributions make a big difference to the lives our students.
Donate today and help our students achieve their full potential, no matter their circumstances or background.
When writing a will, and after making provision for your loved ones, leaving a charitable gift is an excellent way to support the University of Central Lancashire.
Contact our friendly team and we'll be happy to talk through the other options we have available.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/events:
We host a range of events throughout the year, including professional, cultural and student events.
Our Open Days give you a taste of university life.
You can explore our campus, check out accommodation and chat to current students.
This is the best way to get a feel for the university.
We have Open Days for undergraduate and postgraduate students.
Degree shows are a rite of passage for creative students.
They represent the culmination of years of hard work and celebrate creativity and innovation.
These events showcase student's work to the public and industry, and launch them into their future careers.
Graduation ceremonies are a special time when we recognise and celebrate the success of our students.
It is also an occasion to share with those who have encouraged and supported our students.
Every year we welcome our students with their families and friends to the celebrations at our campus.
We host a range of events for professionals.
Keep up-to-date with the latest industry trends and debates at one of our conferences or lectures.
You can also connect with other professionals at our regular networking events.
We have an exciting schedule of upcoming events at UCLan, including public lectures, professional development events and more.
Take a look and see what's on.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/visit:
Visit us on campus and discover life at the University of Central Lancashire for yourself.
From Open Days to campus tours, there are plenty of ways to explore our Preston, Burnley and Westlakes campuses.
University of Central Lancashire Preston PR1 2HE
Our postgraduate courses can allow you to carry out extra study and explore your area of interest at an advanced level.
We offer professional development for you or your team to help plug a skills gap, offer continuing professional development or support career progression.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/news:
From ground-breaking research and outstanding achievements, to exciting exhibitions and high-profile events.
Read the latest news from the University of Central Lancashire.
The Conversation is a news website with articles from researchers and academics from all over the world.
Read articles from our academics on the Conversation.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/about-us:
The University of Central Lancashire is the international, multi-campus university tracing its roots back to 1828 and leading the way in modern learning today.
Whoever you are, wherever you’re from, you can expect a warm welcome at the University of Central Lancashire.
You’ll be joining a thriving community of over 42,000 students and staff from more than 100 countries.
This makes our university a vibrant place to learn, connect with new people and have fun.
We’re proud of our Lancashire spirit and you’ll notice how approachable and supportive everyone is here.
You’ll soon feel right at home.
We started life in Preston and have since grown the number of our UK campuses.
As well as Preston, we are also based in Burnley (East Lancashire), Westlakes (West Cumbria) and London.
We were honoured to establish the first British university in Cyprus in 2012 having been granted an academic license by the Cyprus Ministry of Education and Culture.
Our ambitious Campus Masterplan vision is to create an attractive and inviting, world-class campus compatible with our status as one of the UK’s largest universities.
A core principle of our plan is to integrate our campus seamlessly with the rest of the city, benefitting current and future generations of students, staff, visitors and the wider community.
Today we’re one of the UK’s largest universities with a staff and student community approaching 42,000.
Our employment-focused course portfolio with over 350 undergraduate programmes, nearly 200+ postgraduate courses and rich array of CPD courses means we offer you the skills and experience that industry needs.
We’ve always believed in helping people to seize every opportunity to flourish in education, at work and for life.
Through the combination of academic excellence and real-world teaching, we inspire people to transform their lives by seizing opportunities and achieving things they never thought possible.
And now we have over 200,000 alumni worldwide.
Our graduates achieve outstanding results and are highly employable.
Over 68% of our students graduate with a First or 2:1 (OfS 2023).
Discover what our talented graduates are doing now .
Our community is made up of students from more than 100 countries around the world.
And we are partnered with 123 institutions across the globe making us a truly international University.
We are ranked in the top 7% of universities worldwide (Center for World University Rankings 2024).
The University is a Gold Tier University in the Green Universities Report 2023 (USwitch), highlighting our commitment to sustainability.
We have retained a 2:1 classification in the People & Planet University Green League 2023/24 , where we also ranked first place in the North West for water reduction.
The University is also one of just 13 universities worldwide to achieve a Bronze Carbon Literate Organisation status.
On the world stage, our research teams work collaboratively with major international organisations, from the United Nations and the World Health Organisation to the European Space Agency and NASA.
Whether it’s helping to produce the world’s first photograph of a Black Hole, advising the Government on the potential fire risks to those living in high rise tower block, or supporting the wellbeing of those living with dementia, our researchers are delivering accessible and impactful research that is relevant to society.
Our University is Lancashire’s largest provider of graduate level qualifications.
We have established links with global businesses, police constabularies, NHS trusts and work with more than 7,000 enterprises across a variety of sectors.
In 1828 the University of Central Lancashire was founded as the Institution for the Diffusion of Knowledge.
Our motto ‘Ex solo ad solem’ means ‘from the earth to the sun’; and remains an important part of who we are today.
We help people from all walks of life to achieve their potential.
Our Preston Campus has recently undergone a radical transformation as a result of our £200m masterplan project.
Our vision is to create a world-class campus for the benefit of students, staff and the surrounding community.
Our brand-new Student Centre which opened in 2021, looks out over our new University Square.
The University Square is an exciting hub of activity, a focal point for community events and an iconic gateway linking together the city and the University.
Our new £35m Engineering Innovation Centre (EIC), which opened in 2019, has become a hive of innovation, bringing together University researchers, industry experts, local businesses and students in a spirit of collaboration and discovery.
The new development of our innovative four-storey Veterinary School is now underway.
Located on our Preston Campus, the 45,000 square feet Veterinary School will be the first of its kind in Lancashire and 11th in the UK.
Our values reflect who we are as a university and what we stand for.
They define the things that are most important to us and nurture our sense of shared purpose.
Supporting our values and initiatives are a number of networks, creating positive change throughout our university, for our students, colleagues and the wider communities.
We’re proud of our mission and we take it seriously.
Since being founded as the Institution for the Diffusion of Knowledge in 1828, our educational ethos has brought life-changing learning to local people, this remains at the heart of our mission.
Our institution motto ‘Ex solo ad solem’ translates to ‘From the Earth to the Sun’.
It means helping talented people from all walks of life to make the most of their potential.
We create positive change in our students, staff, business partners and wider communities, enabling them to develop their full potential by providing excellent higher education, innovation and research.
We are a proud civic anchor too, committed to adding social value and playing our role in the economic prosperity of the places in which we are based; sourcing products and services locally, boosting jobs and economic growth.
We pride ourselves on universally supporting our people, being actively liberating, inherently innovative and proudly spirited to face whatever life throws at us.
These values are woven into the fabric of who we are and will always be.
We work closely with the Council for at-risk Academics (Cara) and are proud to be part of the Cara Scholars at Risk UK Universities Network.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/about-us/sustainability:
We've refreshed our strategic plan to further recognise that sustaining and enhancing the wellbeing of people, places and the planet are amongst the most important challenges we face today.
Sustainability has a significant role within the day-to-day operations across all our campuses and we endeavour to include sustainable development in all of our practices.
Annual data is provided via the Estates Management Record and is available at: HE Provider Data: Estates Management | HESA
Sub-Strategy 6 approved by the Vice-Chancellor’s Group, with the Climate Change & Carbon Reduction Strategic Group responsible for steering implementation.
Annual reports will be provided to the Vice-Chancellor’s Group.
The Carbon Management Plan and Sub-Strategy 6, Future Proofing the University are reported to the Safety, Health & Environment Committee which includes membership of the three recognised Trade Unions, Professional Services, Academic representatives and the Students’ Union.
We recognise the urgent need to reduce carbon from our own operations, our influence within the supply chain and the regional leadership we can provide.
As a result, sustainability is one of the six strategic priorities for the university to 2028 and UCLan declared a Climate Emergency in 2019.
The University has been active in sustainability but we recognise the need to increase our efforts in Scope 1 & 2 (our direct emissions) and also Scope 3, the indirect emissions resulting from our waste management, travel, water use and procurement.
In 1995 we established the Healthy University which is a collaborative campus-wide effort towards making the University of Central Lancashire a better place to live, work and learn through a ‘whole system’ approach to wellbeing of people, place and planet.
We have adopted this ethos in our approach to delivering the changes required to reduce our carbon footprint.
We are undertaking a comprehensive decarbonisation plan and how we can use our space most effectively to ensure we are not wasting energy unnecessarily.
We are committed to achieve the University sector targets Universities and the climate emergency: action following COP26 and are working on our decarbonisation plan to calculate how we can bring our net zero targets forward.
The University has relevant research, courses and projects that help to expand our influence on sustainability.
In particular the projects MaCaW (Making Carbon Work) and Eco-I North West , provide in-depth support to local companies to reduce their carbon emissions.
For more information or questions please contact the Sustainability Team.
To help us manage and mitigate at both the local and global level our environmental impacts (adverse or positive changes to the environment) caused by the things we do our ‘aspects’ such as travel, waste, land development and buildings, use of natural resources, procurement and pollution.
The University has implemented an Environmental Management System (EMS).
The University’s EMS is integrated with our Occupational Safety & Health Management System.
This gives the university one cohesive Integrated Management System (IMS) to manage all safety, health and environmental aspects.
These significant aspects are managed through a range of policies, operational procedures, detailed work instructions and other initiatives such as training, awareness and practical initiatives.
The University has implemented an Environmental Management System (EMS) which is aligned to recognised standards including ISO14001.
In 2007 we produced our first Carbon Management Plan and have continued building on these initiatives.
Our current Carbon Management Plan 2020-2023 describes our ongoing activities to reduce carbon emissions, with a £200k annual budget for initiatives within the plan.
We have numerous renewable energy projects on campus, such as photovoltaic panels and woodchip biomass heat generation.
We are undertaking a comprehensive review with a building condition survey and decarbonisation study which will form the basis of a new Carbon Management Plan for 2024-2028.
We are working within the higher education sector’s target by reducing scope 1 and 2 (direct) emissions by 78% by 2035 and achieving net zero by 2050 at the latest, with scope 3 (indirect) emissions to be reduced as soon as possible.
Annual progress is reported via Carbon Management Update Reports;
Our Travel Plan , updated annually contains measures and targets to reduce solo car usage and encourage more sustainable travel choices in order to contribute to the overall reduction of carbon emissions generated by travel to the University.
Through the implementation of our plan, we are working hard to help make our University campuses a healthier and sustainable place in which to work, study or visit.
The main objectives of the plan are:
The anticipated benefits of the travel plan are numerous and include:
We’re dedicated to reducing our carbon emissions and we’re always looking for new and innovative ways that really make an impact.
If you have an idea, however big or small, please contact us and let us know.
We also would like to hear about any issues or energy matters which could be improved.
You can report any arising issues in University buildings by emailing the Estates Team .
Our Strategic Plan to 2028 includes a number of key objectives which relate to sustainable food, to promote mental, physical, social and ecological wellbeing and to inspire healthy choices.
We will minimise consumption of resources whilst considering sustainable procurement.
Our catering service has undertaken several projects and initiatives and has forthcoming plans for 23/24 to continue to develop and promote sustainable food.
We work closely with the Students’ Union on sustainable food growing and cooking projects.
Please see our Healthy, Sustainable and Safe Food Policy for further information.
UCLan Catering - Foster / Harrington Refectory
We engage with the TUCO buying consortium to share good practices.
TUCO is committed to promoting the learning and development of catering and hospitality staff and provides quality standards, advice, and information to those working in catering.
In addition, UCLan catering has started to implement the Menus of Change Programme and its Healthy, Sustainable Menus Principles.
It guides the food industry about many aspects of sustainability in catering, such as nutrition, environmental science perspectives on optimal food selection, and consumer preference trends.
Edible campus
The plants and trees around campus were carefully chosen to provide habitat for birds, bees, and other wildlife, allowing students to appreciate closeness to nature while learning and benefiting from edible food.
We have an orchard on campus with pear, plum and apple varieties.
We also have beehives.
Healthy eating
In 2023 Student Services ran a Time Out Tent, a drop-in space on campus open to all, where the social prescribing leads from the GP surgery attended and provided resources on healthy eating and cheap recipes.
Our UCLan Staff Health Champion Network have undertaken Royal Society for Public Health (RSPH) training in understanding health improvement, and are able to provide advice and signposting on healthy eating.
The University has supported the Students' Union activities by providing space on campus and facilities.
The Great Donate
The Great Donate was born from the knowledge that every year, when students leave University, hundreds of perfectly good household items are thrown away and end up in landfill.
The Great Donate is a Students' Union initiative, based on the Preston Campus, that makes better use of these items by saving them for new and returning students.
The initiative is run by student staff and has raised hundreds of pounds for our upcoming food volunteering project.
The Students' Union will be collecting pots, pans, plates and more and selling them very cheaply to students during our September and January Welcome Weeks.
Food markets
Our Students’ Union regularly organises craft and food markets on campus.
Sustainability is one of the key priorities in the UCLan strategic plan that runs from 2021 until the institution's 200th anniversary in 2028.
Read our policy to find out more .
Responsible procurement
The University has an annual turnover in the region of £225 million, of which c£85 million is spent on goods and services to support the running of the University with a further £25 million on average on its capital program.
We, therefore, have a significant opportunity to work with our supply chains to deliver additional benefits to the University’s students, local residents, businesses and communities.
The University ensure that decisions taken by the University on the procurement of goods, works or services are undertaken in line with our commitments set out in this code under the following themes:
The following social value outcomes are the priority areas the University has identified as best able to support the University, its students, local residents, businesses and communities.
While the Public Services (Social Value) Act 2012 only requires relevant authorities to consider social value in service contracts (and goods or works contracts where there is a services element), the University will also apply the approach to goods and works contracts with a total contract value over £150,000.
The University is a member of the North West Universities Purchasing Consortium (NWUPC), which operates under the banner of UK Universities Procurement Consortia (UKUPC), a body dedicated to improving both the quality of procurement and the level of collaborative procurement across the HE sector.
Together these consortia have published a shared Sustainability Policy to which all members, including the University, are committed.
UCLan is a member of Electronics Watch via NWUPC Ltd.
The University has been awarded Bronze Carbon Literate Organisation status after a successful carbon literacy pilot took place in 2021/22.
Colleagues undertook training across professional services to enable them to be more confident in having conversations within their teams about climate change and carbon reduction.
Each delegate undertook a pledge for their own individual actions, and a group action with their team.
Colleagues joining the University are provided with details of our sustainability policies in induction events ensuring they have the information they need to be sustainable in their roles.
Information is provided to all colleagues on the intranet.
A dedicated area on the Student Hub provides advice and information to students on ways to be sustainable.
Sustainability is incorporated in the UCLan Student Charter, which is shared with all students during welcome week.
The university commits to investing in a sustainable future and considers impact on the climate in all that we do.
Students are encouraged to play their part in culture change for sustainability.
The University takes part in an annual green week, in conjunction with the Students’ Union.
Further detail about our engagement activities can be found in our Engagement Strategy.
Written by : Agnes Altmets, Head of Sustainability Last updated : June 2025 Review date : June 2026 Contact us
At the University of Central Lancashire, we are committed to becoming an exemplar in UK higher education for our regional championing of environmental awareness, as outlined in our Sustainability Strategy , Priority 6: Future Proofing our University.
One of the core objectives within our Strategy is to ‘take a ‘whole university’ approach to cultural and behavioural change in all areas and at every level of our work.
Through engaging with our colleagues and students on sustainability we will empower individual and collective action to support our sustainability ambitions.
We will develop processes to ensure sustainability is embedded in our curriculum design and will showcase the research we undertake into sustainability.
Our objectives:
Representatives from Trade Unions and the Students Union are on our Health, Safety and Environment Committee.
Activity
Responsibility
Resources
Timeframes
Green Lab Ambassadors
LIS
Monthly meetings
Year-round
Travel events
Sustainability Team
Various active travel events
Internal communications
External Relations
News stories, thought pieces, Vice-Chancellor updates
Volunteering
Students’ Union
Various opportunities via website
Term time only
Great Donate
Household goods donation
Welcome week only
Communications
Student newsletter, Student Hub articles, Digital screens
The University reviews its curriculum in line with a new Institutional Curriculum Framework which came into operation from September 2020.
The framework provides the vehicle for curriculum content discussions at a subject level and drives the manifestation at a course level.
The institutional review is a cyclical process of consideration and review for courses.
Approval against the Curriculum Framework includes consideration of embedding sustainability within each programme.
Progress is reported through Academic Quality and Standards Committee.
The Curriculum Framework is a key component of UCLan’s Strategic Plan – Leading the Way in Modern Learning (Priority 2).
Sustainability is one of the key themes included in the Curriculum Framework, drawing on the UN Sustainable Development Goals.
Course leaders and academics can access resources through the Curriculum Framework interactive site, including the ability to upload resources for others to use.
Please see the University's approach to UN Sustainable Development Goals .
Sanctuary Scholarship
The Council for at-risk Academics (Cara)
The University is a signatory to the Concordat for the Environmental Sustainability of Research and Innovation Practice (ESRIP).
The Concordat represents a shared ambition for the UK to continue delivering cutting-edge research, but in a more environmentally responsible and sustainable way.
A number of funders, research organisations and universities are either signatories or supporters of the Concordat.
As a signatory to the Concordat, we:
Read our signatory letter , which outlines our commitment to the priorities of the Concordat for Environmental Sustainability of Research and Innovation Practice
After the VCG agreed that it was important to be a signatory to the Concordat.
A Concordat Implementation Group has been established to look at our engagement with the Concordat and to collate our baseline data and position.
The CIG has 6 working groups:
Once the baseline status is known the CIG will be disestablished and will be replaced by an ESRIP Monitoring and Reporting Group who will be responsible for the annual reporting of our progress against the concordat ambitions.
If you have any queries or questions regarding the Concordat please contact either Alexis or Agnes
Alexis Holden, Director Research and Knowledge Exchange Service Email Alexis
Agnes Altmets, Head of Sustainability Email Agnes
Overview of the Concordat (November 2024) can be found at the Environmental Sustainability (ES) Concordat Webinar webpage on the EAUC website.
This webinar provides an overview of the concordat’s goals, progress to date, and future directions.
There is a practical insight case study from the University of Liverpool, showcasing strategic steps taken to align with concordat requirements.
This webinar also includes a Q&A for open discussion such as the barriers and challenges to the sector, tools and resources and knowledge sharing.
EAUC Sustainability Exchange - The EAUC is the Alliance for sustainability Leadership in Education, championing good practice for the environment across universities and colleges.
Ruth Connor Deputy Chief Executive Officer
Ruth is the lead for Sustainability on Vice-Chancellor's Group.
Mike Sheppard Executive Director of Estates and Campus Services
Mike oversees the Sustainability Team, the delivery of the Estates Enabling Strategy, Carbon Management Plan, Energy Policy and delivers actions within the Strategic Plan to 2028 relating to Priority 6, Future-proofing the university.
Bill Hancox Deputy Director of Estates and Facilities Contact
Bill oversees estate maintenance and facilities at the University.
Environmental sustainability is embedded within these areas of work, and specific carbon-reducing projects are progressed via a dedicated annual decarbonisation budget.
Agnes Altmets Head of Sustainability Contact
Agnes is responsible for developing and delivering the University Sustainability Strategy, she provides guidance for colleagues and students to embed sustainability across the organisation and beyond.
Pete Hill Lead SHE Adviser Contact
Pete is responsible for day to day implementation of the University’s SHE Integrated Management System.
Claire Lowe Head of Space and Property Management Contact
Claire has a Masters in Environmental Monitoring and works across the three UCLan campuses on new developments and projects, focusing on the efficient utilisation of the estate through space management policies and principles.
Dave Genther Campus Appearance Manager Contact
Dave is responsible for the external campus environment, including biodiversity and oversees the Waste and Recycling team.
Jackie Cunningham Catering Services Manager Contact
Jackie oversees sustainable food aspects of all our in-house catering services, including Marine Stewardship Council fish, Good Egg Award products, Rainforest Alliance coffee, daily vegan and vegetarian options at all catering outlets in addition to measures to reduce single-use plastic.
Jamie McDowell Outdoor Team Supervisor Contact
Jamie’s responsibilities include waste and recycling covering the full range of collection services from litter picking to removing large unwanted objects, working with contracted waste and recycling services to minimise landfill and increase recycling.
Christopher Jones Stores and Waste Technician at LIS Learning & Technical Resources Contact
Christopher supports hazardous waste management.
Leighann Carlton Sourcing Manager at Finance Contact
Leighann supports responsible procurement.
Bob Turner Senior Project Manager at Estates and Campus Services Contact
Bob oversees capital projects, such as the new School of Veterinary Medicine building.
Clare Croft Customer Services Manager at Estates and Campus Services Contact
Clare manages fleet vehicles and carparking.
Jon Moffatt Estates Compliance Manager at Estates and Campus Services Contact
He supports compliance such as Display Energy Certificates.
Professor Karl Williams Karl is the Director of the Centre for Waste Management and alongside academic interests leads two regional projects which engage SMEs to improve carbon efficiency within their organisations and products.
Alexis Holden Director Research and Knowledge Exchange Service Contact
Alexis supports work on the Concordat for the Environmental Sustainability of Research and Innovation Practice.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/academics:
Welcome to our academic and teaching staff search.
Below you will find our staff profiles showcasing academic experience, expertise, areas of teaching and research excellence.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/professional-services:
We have a wide range of professional services that your business can take advantage of.
Our people and students in these areas are highly skilled and can make a difference to your company.
Our purpose-built eye clinic on Adelphi Street is open to cater for all your eye-care needs.
We offer a full-service including examinations and prescriptions to spectacle dispensing.
We are please to offer you a range of legal advice services including our well-established Law Clinic, Business Law Clinic and Centre for Mediation.
At the University of Central Lancashire, we have a wide selection of venues including meeting, training and event spaces that are adaptable to suit the nature of your event.
The University of Central Lancashire is the only university in the North West and one of only a few nationally to boast its own on-campus dental clinic.
UCLan Community Dentists provide clinical facilities which support the educational activity of dentistry students at our Preston Campus.
The Propeller Student Enterprise service supports UCLan students, staff and graduates across all faculties and services to become “business ready”, whether working for themselves or others.
This service offers skills workshops, online resources, 1-1 support from business mentors and interaction with a community of local businesses who work from the Propeller Hub.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/events/venue-hire:
Find out more about our venue hire options below.
Based within walking distance of Preston train station, we offer spaces across a range of buildings on-campus.
Our rooms range from small comfortable classrooms to large lecture theatres, with a maximum capacity of 470 delegates.
Our specialist outdoor event spaces are also available throughout the year for corporate receptions, live music, community events, markets and more.
Situated in the heart of Lancashire, Preston boasts convenient accessibility, being well-connected by major transportation networks, including rail and road links.
The city's rich history and architecture provide a unique backdrop for any event.
Take a look at the spaces we have on offer below.
The Rooftop Terrace on our Student Centre offers a relaxed event space overlooking Preston.
With a maximum capacity of 120 people, the terrace is ideal for summer parties and corporate events.
As part of our commitment to green spaces on campus, we have welcomed a population of bees to our Student Centre roof.
Their hives are situated just outside of the roof terrace, meaning they are perfectly situated to pollinate the gardens.
There are some restrictions on when we can book out this space during term-time, please get in touch to discuss availability.
Located in front of our new Student Centre , the University Square offers a large outdoor space ideal for a range of events.
Mains power available, suitable for event infrastructure.
Premises Licence in place.
The square is approx.
2000m 2 with capacity for up to 4000 people (dependant on event set-up).
Rates for full-day or 4-hour hire available.
Located between Foster Building and the EIC Building, Foster Square offers a medium sized outdoor space suitable for a variety of events.
Some mains power available, suitable for event infrastructure.
1000m 2 with capacity of up to 2000 people (dependant on event set-up).
UCLan Sports Arena
Our Sports Arena is Preston’s premier multi-sports venue.
We cater for a wide range of outdoor sports.
We are also experienced in organising and delivering successful corporate events.
We can tailor events to suit the needs of your organisation and there are a number of activities you can choose from.
For Sports Arena bookings, please contact the team via email or telephone
This central hub offers our students access to a range of support services and space to study while enjoying refreshments from the café.
We can book out spaces across this open plan building for evening events and at weekends during term-time.
We have more flexibility for weekday events outside of term time.
Upper ground social spaces
Both of our Upper Ground Social Spaces are suitable for informal dining and networking.
With a capacity of 300, each space includes large round tables, fixed sofa style seating and some movable tables and chairs.
We encourage viewing of these spaces prior to booking.
Lower ground floor
Our Lower Ground Floor includes a café, foyer and Student Support area.
Booking of these spaces is restricted during term time, however, we have some flexibility during the summer months.
The Lower Ground Floor often works well as a base for an event registration desk, allowing you to easily direct guests to the Upper Ground Floor or Roof Terrace.
Foster Social Space is protected for student use during term-time.
Outside of term time we can book it out for a range of events.
The furniture in the space is usually not movable.
If you wish to do this, please let us know when you contact us.
The social space is also next to Foster Refectory, allowing more space for larger events.
We have a wide range of classroom spaces available.
Our classrooms come with a range of seating capacities.
The majority of rooms are fully equipped with presentation facilities.
Room layouts can be changed to suit your needs, for example, theatre style, cabaret or boardroom.
Capacities range from 1 to 120 people.
We have a wide range of lecture theatres available.
Our lecture theatres have a range of seating capacities and are fully equipped with presentation facilities.
Capacities range from 36 to 470 people.
Sir Tom Finney Sports Centre
Named after a Preston and England footballing legend, the Sir Tom Finney Sports Centre is our multi-million-pound, state-of-the-art indoor facility located at the heart of our Preston Campus.
For Sports Centre bookings, please contact the team via email or telephone
As a University, we have a range of specialist spaces , from laboratories, performance spaces, clinics and training areas such as our crime scene flats and moot courtroom .
Not all of our specialist spaces are currently available for hire, however, if you are interested in a particular venue, please let us know and we can look into options for you.
We offer a personalised service and will provide you with a tailored quote on receipt of your enquiry.
However, we recognise that price is a major factor when booking venues, so, we have provided an overview of our pricing below.
Indoor spaces
Day delegate rate: £30+VAT
Includes room hire for one main room, two refreshment services, lunch and presentation facilities (where available in the chosen venue).
We require a minimum number of 40 delegates for weekday bookings.
Minimum numbers for weekend bookings can be provided on request, however, they are likely to be 100 or more.
Contact us to find out more about the packages available.
We also offer dry hire rates.
We only accept bookings with an overall fee of £500 or more on weekdays, and £1000 or more on weekends.
Room rates per day:
Bookings held in our indoor spaces require a 50% deposit to confirm your booking, and full payment is required before the booking commences.
Outdoor spaces
Please contact us to discuss your requirements and allow us to offer a tailored quote.
For all bookings held on our outdoor squares, a 50% deposit is payable on booking and full payment is required before the booking commences.
Roof Terrace
We welcome you to visit our roof terrace and meet with one of our specialist team.
This will allow us to discuss your requirements and bring together a tailored quote.
For information on sports facility pricing, please contact:
To make an enquiry please complete the form linked below and a member of the team will be in touch.
We are happy to discuss individual accessibility requirements and work to see these are met.
However, as an overview, all our buildings are wheelchair accessible and have accessible toilets.
You can find all building access information on our AccessAble site.
We have a selection of rooms with a fitted induction loop and can support you in booking BSL interpreters.
As teaching is our main priority as a University, we can only advise on building/room availability once we have received your enquiry with date(s), time(s) and attendee numbers.
Please complete email us and we will come back to you on venue availability.
Our venues are flexible allowing you to use a variety of different spaces for your booking (dependant on availability).
To access our buildings on campus your delegates will require visitor swipe cards.
We will provide these on arrival.
You will be asked to return them at the end of your hire.
There is a small fee payable for any cards not returned, to allow us to replace them.
Classrooms and Lecture Theatres - 1 to 470 delegates.
Student Centre:
Foster Social Space – 200.
Outdoor spaces:
Sir Tom Finney Sports Centre:
The Sports Arena offers a wide range of facilities, the capacity of each varies depending on the sports activity taking place:
Parking is not available on campus during the academic term.
Outside of term time, we can often offer some parking, however, this may come at an additional charge.
There are public pay and display parking options available nearby.
Preston Train Station is situated on the west coast mainline and along with Preston Bus Station, is a short 5 to 10-minute walk from the Preston City Campus.
There are also taxis directly outside the train station.
We can provide a variety of catering options to suit any event, from working lunches, dinners, champagne receptions and outdoor vendors.
Our modern rooms include presentation facilities, Wi-Fi, as well as some in-house solutions for hybrid events.
For large events, our experienced team can advise on event infrastructure options and liaise with suppliers if needed.
A range of our venues have a Premises Licence, but not all.
Any licensable activity on campus must first be approved by our in-house licence holders.
Where you would like to host licensable activity in a venue without a licence, a TENs application will have to be made.
We will liaise with you on this.
To query licensing on campus, please get in touch.
The majority of our buildings are open from 8am to 9pm Monday to Friday.
We have some availability at weekends.
Please contact us to find out more.
Events held outside of our usual opening hours require prior approval from our Security Team.
Please get in touch and we can request this.
Events held on our outdoor spaces must adhere to the terms of the licence in place for the event.
Utilities:
Toilets:
Technology:
Please note, access to power, greywater and indoor toilets may come at an additional charge.
We have CCTV and 24/7 security on campus.
For large events or events that involve alcohol, you may be required to provide additional event security.
We will review this with our Health and Safety and Security Teams as required.
We are committed to delivering sustainable events and can work with you to identify sustainable event options.
Find out more about our organisational sustainability goals and processes .
Where requested in advance, our buildings team can rearrange the furniture in most rooms to suit your requirements.
Please inform us of any venue set-up requirements when you enquire.
We can also hire in additional furniture and event infrastructure where needed, please contact us to discuss your requirements.
We are unable to host weddings and family parties on campus.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/about-us/schools-and-colleges:
Our team can help your students make informed decisions about their future.
We offer bespoke, engaging sessions at our university campus or your school or college.
Our schools and colleges team can help your students take their next steps.
You'll have a dedicated contact at the University who can organise talks and visits.
We're here to support and guide students, encouraging them to consider university.
Join us on-campus for a university experience day.
This will give students an idea of what it's like to study at university, from attending lectures to visiting the library.
We can also arrange subject taster sessions.
These sessions are led by academics, so students can see what it's like to study their chosen degree.
If you can't make it to campus, we'll visit you.
We can provide a range of talks, activities and workshops on topics like student finance.
We can also arrange subject-specific taster sessions, which will replicate real university seminars.
Our Nurturing Futures Conference is for teachers and advisors.
It is designed to help you meet the Gatsby Benchmarks.
You'll attend a series of talks and workshops about the university application process.
You'll also hear from course leaders on some of our most competitive courses.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/open-days/preston-open-day-oct:
Get to know us at our October Open Day.
Come and explore our Preston Campus.
Discover everything you need to know about student life, our Preston Campus and courses at our undergraduate Open Day.
At our undergraduate Open Day in October 2025 you can:
It is important to plan your Open Day to get the most out of your experience.
Take a look at our guidance to help you plan.
An Open Day is an event when the university is open to students who are considering applying.
They often include activities such as campus tours, subject talks, accommodation tours and finance talks
At a University of Central Lancashire Open Day you can expect a day filled with exploration, insight, and inspiration.
It's the perfect chance to get your questions answered, from course details and career options, to accommodation, finance, and student life.
We have lots on offer at our Open Days:
If you want to find out more about Preston Open Days, visit our plan your Open Day webpage .

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/visit/campus-tours:
Discover our fantastic campuses on our student-led campus tours.
Explore our buildings, facilities, accommodation and more.
Find out what life is like here at the University of Central Lancashire.
Our Preston Campus is right at the heart of the city, just minutes away from its vibrant shopping centre, attractions and nightlife.
On your student-led tour, you'll explore our amazing University Square and Student Centre.
You'll also discover other world-class buildings and facilities.
Tours will depart from our Student Centre and will last approximately one hour.
There will be one Student Ambassador to one group booking.
You'll be able to:
If you have any queries or if the dates you prefer are not available please email the Preston Campus Team .
We look forward to welcoming you to campus.
If you’re unable to make a campus tour or you simply want to do your own thing, you are welcome to visit our campuses at any time and follow our self-guided walking tour .
This suggested route will help you explore the heart of our campus and the city of Preston at your leisure and own pace.
Join a student-led tour around our compact and friendly campus.
Booking is essential to make sure you don't miss out.
Campus tours will start at Victoria Mill and end at Princess Way and will last approximately one hour.
You'll have the chance to:
If you have any queries, please email the Burnley Campus Team .
We look forward to welcoming you to our Burnley Campus.
We have designed this self-guided walking tour to allow you to discover our campus and Burnley town centre at your own pace.
It is ideal if you want to explore the area you’ll be living in once you start at UCLan Burnley.
You can book a campus tour using the links below:
Can't make any of the dates or times or can't see any listed?
Please send us an email letting us know when you are available to visit campus.
We will organise a date that fits around you.
On most occasions we have car parking available for guests at both our Preston and Burnley campuses.
When you book your campus tour, you can let us know you need a car parking space by telling us on the booking form.
Please make a note in the special requirements section.
We will get back to you by email to confirm this is arranged and which car park to use.
Our monthly campus tour event is open to anyone.
If any of the dates listed do not fit your schedule, please contact our International Team by email .
They will to arrange a date that works for you.
You can also explore our campus facilities on our online guided tours if you can't make it to campus.
We can't always guarantee that subject specific facilities will be available on the day you visit.
You will get to explore our main buildings, accommodation, and general facilities.
Our campus tours are led by current students, though we can’t guarantee they’ll be from your chosen course.
However, they’ll share their own experiences of studying here, giving you a genuine insight into university life.
If you can’t attend one of our pre-planned Open Days or campus tours, don't worry, we'll be happy to arrange something else for you.
Please contact us using the details below.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/news/daily-mail-good-uni-guide-25:
University scores highly for teaching excellence in Daily Mail University Guide
The University of Central Lancashire has risen nine places in the latest Daily Mail University Guide .
Published today, Thursday 14 August, the table has placed the University 78 th out of 128 institutions, meaning a rise in nine places from the 2025 edition.
It rates institutions in a variety of areas, including teaching excellence, student support and experience and the proportion of graduates who attain a first or 2:1 degree.
This year, the University scored particularly high in the areas covering teaching excellence, where it sits 42 nd in the country, student support (28 th ), and its intake of first-generation students (28 th ), reflecting its commitment to widening participation and making higher education accessible to all.
The University’s best performing subjects in the league table are journalism, where it is ranked second in the country, social work, which sits at 7 th , health studies (5 th ) design studies (13 th ) and Childhood and youth studies (5 th ).
This latest ranking follows on from success in the recent National Student Survey (NSS), published in July, which saw the University rank 35 th out of 122 institutions for the number of students who find the educational experience they receive overwhelmingly positive.
University of Central Lancashire Vice-Chancellor Professor Graham Baldwin said: “I am immensely proud of the University of Central Lancashire’s continued progress, as reflected in our rise of nine places in this year’s Daily Mail University Guide.
“This advancement is underpinned by our strong performance in the recent National Student Survey (NSS).
Student satisfaction remains a cornerstone of our mission, and these results affirm the quality of the educational experience we provide.
“We are hopeful that this positive momentum will translate into further improvements across other national league tables, reinforcing our commitment to excellence and our reputation as a student-focused institution.”
Places are still available at the University of Central Lancashire on courses beginning this September.
Find out more by visiting the University’s Clearing pages.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/lancashire:
We are proudly changing our name to the University of Lancashire.
It’s a change that emphasises our enormous pride in our almost 200 years of academic excellence and our deep Lancashire roots.
This isn’t just a name change.
As we always have, we’re continuing to develop who we are so we can help our students seize even more opportunities to flourish in education, at work, and for life.
You can enjoy a fantastic student experience at our multi-campus, global University with second-to-none student support, hands on learning and a home-from-home feel.
We are pioneering cutting edge research, solving real-world challenges and delivering change.
We are shaping graduates to level-up business, and forging industry-leading partnerships creating real impact.
This a very special moment in our history, and the start of an exciting new chapter.
Whoever you are, wherever you’re from, you can expect world-class teaching, global impact and a warm welcome.
That’s how we do it in Lancashire.
Professor Graham Baldwin
Vice-Chancellor and Chief Executive
Locally the acronym UCLan is widely used, but less well known outside of the region.
This change will make it easier for prospective students, partners, and communities across the UK and abroad better understand who we are and what we stand for.
This change is an indicator of our ambition to drive positive impact across Lancashire and beyond as our 200th anniversary draws near.
Our history can be traced back to 1828 and in four years' time we’ll be celebrating our 200-year anniversary.
Within that time, we’ve successfully changed name six times.
We believe in the spirit of opportunity for all, which is the same motto and ethos as when we were created as the Institution for the Diffusion of Knowledge.
Founded as the ‘Institution for the Diffusion of Knowledge’ .
Following a substantial donation from the Trustees of Edmund Robert Harris, we changed our name to the ‘Harris Institute’ .
Following a government re-organisation of technical education, our name changed to the ‘Harris College’ .
The Harris College was designated by Central Government as a polytechnic and became ‘Preston Polytechnic’ .
Preston Polytechnic changed its name to ‘Lancashire Polytechnic’ .
Lancashire Polytechnic became the ‘University of Central Lancashire’ after the Government bestowed degree-awarding powers to polytechnics.
New logo to emphasise the abbreviation ‘UCLan’ .
In September 2020, the University launched its new brand , with a new logo and colour scheme to emphasise its position as a place of learning, where opportunity creates success.
Watch the new brand video .
We drop the central to become known as the ‘ University of Lancashire’ .
No, you don’t need to reapply or make any changes to your offer or application.
Everything will automatically switch across to our new name.
Your offer remains valid, and we’ll keep you informed through our regular updates.
Joining us in September 2025 means you’ll take a special place in our history as one of the first students at the University of Lancashire.
Our name change will not affect any courses.
No, we informed schools and colleges of the new name when the Office for Students (OfS) approved it in December 2024, so you don’t need to tell them.
It depends on when you apply.
If you apply before Friday 1 September 2025, you’ll see our current name.
From 1 September onwards, UCAS will show the new name.
Either way, this won’t affect your application.
Yes, from Friday 1 September 2025, our name change will update across all UCAS systems automatically.
An offer to study with us is valid regardless of the name of the University.
Yes, if you’ve already started your application on UCAS for September 2026, our name will update automatically on your application.
The UCAS code for the University will not change.
No, you don’t need to tell them.
You can apply for student finance as normal through the Student Loans Company or Student Finance England/Northern Ireland/Wales, or the Student Awards Agency Scotland.
Our new name will appear automatically on the portal after Friday 1 September 2025.
You should still apply in spring and not wait until September, even if you’re unsure which university you’ll attend.
No, the name change will not affect your visa or immigration status.
We continue to be a licensed student visa sponsor, and our sponsor licence remains valid under the new name.
Your visa remains valid, and the University’s name change does not affect your sponsorship or immigration status.
If you received your CAS before the name change, the CAS is still valid.
You do not need to update your BRP or visa documents.
UKVI recognises the transition so you should not face any issues when applying for your visa.
Yes, your degree will still be fully recognised and valued by employers and institutions in your home country.
We’re contacting embassies, ministries, and relevant authorities to make sure they’re aware of the name change.
This is so there’s no disruption to degree recognition or attestation processes.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/news/lubaina-himid-british-academy:
Emeritus Professor Lubaina Himid CBE has been recognised by the British Academy
A University of Central Lancashire Emeritus Professor has been recognised for her contribution to the art world with a prestigious honorary award.
The Turner Prize winner Lubaina Himid CBE has been named an Honorary Fellow of the British Academy .
The Emeritus Professor of Contemporary Art said: “Courses in the arts and humanities are essential routes towards maintaining and nurturing the richness of our cultural landscape.
I accepted this honorary fellowship because I am deeply honoured to be part of an institution, the British Academy, which supports and encourages research in these subjects; without them we are lost.”
Lubaina is one of the pioneers of the Black British Art Movement.
She has spent her career pioneering a practice which addresses themes of race, history, feminism, cultural memory and identity.
She has specifically highlighted the trade in enslaved people and the contribution made by the people of the Black Diaspora.
After decades of creative outputs and eye-catching exhibitions, she won the globally renowned Turner Prize in 2017.
The following year, she was recognised with a CBE for her contributions to the arts.
Next year, Lubaina, who has lived and worked in Preston since the early 1990s, is representing the United Kingdom at the international art festival, the Venice Biennale 2026 .
She has been chosen by the British Council to deliver a major solo exhibition of new work which will go on display in the famous Italian city’s British Pavilion from May to November.
Lubaina was one of four people elected as Honorary Fellows this year.
She was joined on the list by Lindsey Hilsum, International Editor of Channel 4 News; Richard Ovenden OBE, Bodley's Librarian and the Helen Hamlyn Director of University Libraries; and Dame Judith Weir DBE Previous Master of the King’s Music and President of the Royal Society of Musicians.
The British Academy is the UK’s national academy for the humanities and social sciences.
Photo credit Adama Jalloh.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/news/lessons-from-cave-bear-extinction-could-save-endangered-bears:
New research reveals that the now-extinct cave bear was much more adaptable than once thought yet was still made extinct when faced with the combined pressures of climate change and human competition
Lessons from extinction could help protect the bears of today.
New research reveals that the now-extinct cave bear was much more adaptable than once thought yet was still made extinct when faced with the combined pressures of climate change and human competition.
This offers a stark warning for modern bear conservation strategies.
Dr Jennifer Jones from the University of Central Lancashire.
with collaborators from Spain, Serbia and researchers from University College London (UCL), analysed bone collagen from 40,000-year-old cave bear remains found in the Šalitrena Pećina cave in Serbia and used them to reconstruct the bears’ diet.
Following a programme of research, they concluded that although the cave bears were mostly herbivorous, they drew on a wide range of vegetation from different environments.
This is evidence of ecological flexibility that challenges the previous theory that they were rigid in their diets.
Despite their ability to adjust their diets and adapt to different habitats, cave bears could not survive the rapid environmental shifts and loss of resources brought by the last Ice Age 20,000 years ago.
The researchers behind the study warn that parallels can be drawn between the threats facing our currently endangered bear species.
Today, six of the world’s eight bear species, including many populations of the European brown bear, remain vulnerable or endangered.
In Europe, only an estimated 17,000-20,000 brown bears are left, scattered across over 20 countries.
Many are now isolated in fragmented habitats and face multiple threats including shrinking wild spaces, human-wildlife conflict, poaching, and the growing impacts of climate change.
The study supports the theory that species extinction often results from the intersection of multiple pressures rather than a single cause.
It therefore highlights the urgent need to reduce these pressures now if we want to ensure that species like the brown bear have the space, resources, and genetic diversity to survive in the future.
Dr Jennifer Jones, Senior Lecturer in Archaeology at the University of Central Lancashire, said: “Our study found that cave bears were flexible and could adapt to local conditions, much more so than previously thought.
But when large-scale climate change was combined with human expansion, even a resilient species couldn’t cope.
This should serve as a warning for us as we explore ways of protecting endangered bears today.
“We need to recognise that adaptability isn’t enough for bear species to survive, if the threats against them continue to mount.
"The more pressure that we pile on today’s wildlife like aggressive habitat loss, climate change and ongoing human conflicts, the smaller their chance of survival is.”
Read Dr Jennifer Jones' full research paper here

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/news/uclan-crowned-university-of-the-year:
The institution claimed the HE prize at the Edufuturists Awards 2023
The University of Central Lancashire (UCLan) has been named ‘University of the Year’ at an international awards ceremony.
The institution took the top prize for higher education providers at the Edufuturists Awards 2023.
Recognising innovation and progressive practices across the educational sector, Edufuturists champion individuals and educational institutions who work to ignite change and transform learning for the benefit of society and future generations.​​​​​​​
UCLan was recognised for a number of outstanding research contributions, including the extensive research undertaken within the areas of health and social care.
Some of the projects which caught the judging panel’s eye included:
The University’s extensive support of businesses, including leading on apprenticeships, creating the Beyond Business campaign and offering a wide variety of business support to small and medium sized enterprises, was praised.
Professor Graham Baldwin, UCLan Vice-Chancellor, said: “I’m absolutely delighted we’ve been recognised as the Edufuturists University of the Year.
It is fantastic recognition for the institution as a whole and follows on from our double success in the recent 2023 Educate North Awards.”
UCLan was nominated alongside Arizona State University, from the United States of America, Manchester’s UA92 and Beit Berl College, from Israel.
The University was previously awarded 'University of the Year' in Edufuturists' DigiLearn sector in July 2020.
Professor Peter Lloyd, Dean of Arts and Media, accepted the award at a ceremony held recently in Leeds.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/news/most-affordable-uni-the-times:
The Times ranks UCLan number one for cost of living
The University of Central Lancashire (UCLan) is the most affordable University in the country, according to a new league table published by The Times.
The newspaper’s student cost of living index ranked UCLan number one out of the top 50 largest universities in the UK based on five key metrics: rent, bus fare, gym membership and the cost of a takeaway and a pint of beer.
The average weekly student rent cost in Preston is £83 whereas, on the other end of the table, students studying at London-based universities can expected to pay more than £150 per week.
It’s also good news for students who want to skip the cooking and opt for a takeaway, with Preston offering some of the cheapest in the country.
When it comes to drinking, the average cost of a pint is £2.50 cheaper than the most expensive universities.
UCLan’s Director of Marketing Heather Ellis said: “With students understandably concerned about the rising cost of living, it’s fantastic to see that Preston is the most affordable place in the country to be a student.
“In these financially difficult times, it's natural to wonder whether coming to university is a good idea.
This Times league table is a reminder that the cost of coming to university can differ considerably depending on where you want to go.
University remains an investment that could greatly benefit you in the long term, with graduates earning 30 per cent more than non-graduates, so being able to afford a degree is more important than ever.”
The Times cost of living index looked at the top 50 largest universities based on enrolment, which covers more than 1.5 million students.
The table is available on The Times website.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/legal/accessibility:
The University of Central Lancashire (UCLan) is committed to making its website accessible, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018.
This accessibility statement applies to www.uclan.ac.uk
This website is partially compliant with the WCAG (Web Content Accessibility Guidelines) 2.1, level AA standard, due to the non-compliance listed below.
There are customisation tools available via your browser or personal device that will improve your online experience if you have a disability.
AbilityNet - How to use My Computer My Way has step-by-step advice on making your computer, laptop, tablet or smart phone easier to use.
Our website is designed for as many people as possible in mind.
We are committed to providing a website that is accessible to all users and one that provides a positive user experience.
We want as many people as possible to be able to use this website.
For example, that means you should be able to:
The content listed below is non-accessible because it is not compliant with WCAG 2.1, level AA.
Video player controls
When navigating with a keyboard it is possible to navigate away from the video with the focus still being on the video.
2.1: Keyboard accessible
Links and buttons
There are several instances of buttons which look like links, and links which look like buttons.
1.3.1 Info and relationships
Buttons
There is some ambiguous button labelling such as 'Read more'.
3.3.2 Labels or instructions
Video
Some videos which do not contain audio, do not have an alternative media.
1.2.3 Audio description or media alternative
PDF documents
Some older PDF documents may lack a heading structure and clear labelling.
1.1.1 Non text content
Cookie consent pop-up
Some issues with colour contrast and aria labelling.
2.5.3 Label in name
1.4.3 Contrast
We carry out our own testing on a regular basis using screen reader software, colour contrast analyser and keyboard only.
We also use the automated tool Acquia Optimize to flag up any issues and review these monthly.
All testing goes into an ongoing accessibility road map and is fixed as soon as possible.
We are not able to fix some issues, such as video player controls and the cookie consent pop-up, as they are supplied by a third party.
Whilst we make every effort to ensure our website is accessible, there is some content that we are not fixing straightaway as a priority.
This content is currently exempt under accessibility legislation.
If you need information on this website in a different format like an accessible PDF, large print, easy read, audio recording or braille, please contact:
We’ll consider your request and get back to you in 2 working days.
This statement was prepared on 21 December 2023 using information from a third party assessment, self assessments and automated testing.
We’re always looking to improve the accessibility of this website.
If you find any problems not listed on this page or think we’re not meeting accessibility requirements, please contact the web team .
The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 (the ‘accessibility regulations’).
If you’re not happy with how we respond to your complaint, please contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS) .

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/legal/cookie-notice:
Here at the University of Central Lancashire (UCLan) we are fully committed to safeguarding and protecting the privacy of our website users.
However, in order to provide you with the best possible experience, it is necessary to place small amounts of information on your personal device to ensure the functionality and usability of our website.
These small information files are known as ‘cookies’
The below outlines how we collect, use and handle information that you provide through your use of the University of Central Lancashire (lancashire.ac.uk) website.
As a large organisation, we have several websites, domains, platforms and mobile applications that are currently being reviewed and will have their own cookie policies and statements.
This includes our student support website located at lancashire.ac.uk/students .
All personal data collected and used by the University is handled in compliance with current data protection legislation.
If you would like more detailed information relating to our Data Protection Policy, your privacy or your rights, or who to contact if you have any concerns about the use of your data, please visit our data protection webpages
A cookie is a small piece of data (text file) that a website, when visited by a user, asks your browser to store on your device in order to remember information about you, such as your language preference or login information.
Those cookies are set by us and called first party cookies.
We also use third party cookies which are cookies from a domain different than the domain of the website (lancashire.ac.uk) you are visiting – such as a social media ‘like’ button.
It is important for you to understand what cookies are, what we use cookies for, and how to disable them if you do not wish for them to be used whilst visiting this site.
When you access our website we use cookies to give you the best possible experience on our website and help improve our services to you.
For example, we may use cookies to:
We have listed all of the third party cookies that we are aware of and our lancashire.ac.uk site is scanned regularly for updates.
However, third parties may choose to change their cookies settings from time to time, and as such this list cannot be guaranteed.
Please also be aware you may also block third party cookies used by our advertisers; however you may still receive advertisements, these will just not be tailored to your likes and interests.
You can find out more via Your Online Choices .

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/legal/modern-slavery:
This statement is made pursuant to section 54 (Part 6) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and constitutes the University's modern slavery and human trafficking statement for the financial year ending 31 July 2024.
The statement sets out the actions the University has taken to combat modern slavery in its supply chains and across its business.
The University of Central Lancashire is a leading modern multi-campus university, in Lancashire and Cumbria.
We are one of the UK’s largest universities with a student and staff community of over 42,000 individuals.
Internationally the University has academic partners in all regions of the globe.
The University’s core business is teaching and research - it has a wide range of subject areas and comprises Academic Schools supported by Professional Services teams.
We employ around 3,700 full and part time staff covering both the Academic and Professional Services areas.
Our subsidiary, UCLan Professional Services Limited is a wholly owned subsidiary of the University and is subject in any procurement dealings to the same vetting processes in place for the University, as set out below.
The University has an annual turnover in the region of £290 million of which c£100 million is spent on goods and services to support the running of the University with a further £25 million a year on average on its capital program.
The University is supported by Procurement & Commercial Services in the delivery of significant procurements and the oversight of contracts management.
The University procures a significant range of goods, works and services across key categories of spend including but not limited to Soft Facilities Management, Construction & Hard Facilities Management, Information, Communications & Technology, Business & Administration Services and Medical Supplies.
The University expects its suppliers and other business partners to have the same high ethical standards in promoting safe and fair working conditions and promoting ethical sourcing within their supply chains.
Whilst the University believes the risk of modern slavery in our supply chains is low, our policies and practices are designed to identify and mitigate any risk.
The University mitigates the risk of modern slavery occurring in its workforce by ensuring that directly employed staff are recruited by following robust HR recruitment policies.
There is a Whistleblowing Policy in place for members of staff to raise any concerns about wrongdoing by the University.
Staff employed on a temporary basis via agencies are only recruited through established sources who can provide assurance, via the procurement procedures referred to below, that they comply fully with the requirements of legislation relating to the rights and welfare of their candidates and employees.
The Procurement team is responsible for managing the University's supply chains.
Procurement spend covers a vast range of goods, services and works and therefore the risk of modern slavery and trafficking is something that is very prominent.
The University’s assessment at this time is that the principal areas of the University’s procurement which carry increased risks of modern slavery and human trafficking are:
It is vital that the University works closely with suppliers in the above categories to understand and assess where items originate from and what conditions the supply chain responsible for these items, are working in.
The University, and in particular Procurement, is committed to working with suppliers to further develop this knowledge and understanding and assist in improving conditions wherever possible.
Early engagement with suppliers and supply chains on any project allows the Procurement team to understand what risks there may be in producing/delivering the requirement and, if necessary, mitigate and eliminate these risks through the competitive tender process.
As part of the University’s initiative to identify, manage and mitigate risk we have in place, along with consortia partners whose purchasing frameworks we use, processes and systems to:
These measures are embedded into the University’s procedures and we are also aware that similar measures have been taken with other public sector frameworks and public sector contracts that we are able to access in order to supply the University.
The University is a member of the North Western Universities Purchasing Consortium (NWUPC), which operates under the banner of UK Universities Procurement Consortia (UKUPC), a body dedicated to improving both the quality of procurement and the level of collaborative procurement across the HE sector.
This policy sets out the steps that must be taken in major contract procurement processes that are conducted for consortium members, to help to ensure that slavery and human trafficking are not occurring in the supply chain.
Currently the University spends over 40% (monetary value) through consortia frameworks.
The University of Central Lancashire is signed up to the NETpositive Futures Supplier Engagement Tool (HE), and we are committed to bettering our understanding of our supply chains.
The NETpositive Supplier Engagement (HE) Tool provides access to a single mechanism to engage our supply chain with issues of modern slavery and human trafficking.
This tool was developed by the North Western Universities Purchasing Consortium (NWUPC), the University Caterers Organisation (TUCO) and the North Eastern University Purchasing Consortia (NEUPC).
The University can provide the Engagement Tool (HE) to our suppliers which enables them to generate their own, bespoke Action Plans.
It provides us with the facility to interrogate data that is generated to understand not only how our suppliers are making progress in relation to Modern Slavery (and sustainability) but also to better understand their needs.
The tool does the following:
The University will review methods to better encourage its suppliers to sign up to the tool and use it effectively.
The intention is for the University to actively encourage its suppliers to use Netpositive in our joint efforts around Modern Slavery, rather than simply asking them how they approach it.
The University has a “Responsible Procurement” Policy that will ensure that decisions taken by the University on the procurement of goods, works or services are undertaken in line with our commitments under the following themes:
The University is committed to ensuring that there is no modern slavery or human trafficking in our supply chains or in any part of our business.
To ensure that this commitment is met in a consistent and appropriate manner the University ensures that modern slavery is addressed within our trading terms.
Our Human Resource Policies ensure that workers are appointed legally, and rigorous checks are carried out on all new appointments both permanent and fixed term including student workers and international researchers.
Policies are fully supported by Guidance for Managers.
The appointment of temporary or interim resources are approved by the Resources Committee and monitored by both the People Team and Procurement.
The University has appointed a Director of Equality, Diversity and Inclusion, who will be supported by the People Team in delivering the agenda from the staff perspective.
The People Team is responsible for supporting equality and diversity policy development and implementation, and seeks to engage all University staff in promoting a positive and fully inclusive work environment.
The University gives legal consideration to the requirements of the Equality Act 2010 through an Equality Impact Assessment process by reviewing all the equality impact assessment carried out on the University policies, functions and practices.
The University is committed in its pursuit of academic excellence to equality of opportunity and to a pro-active and inclusive approach to equality, which supports and encourages all under-represented groups, promotes an inclusive culture, and values diversity.
The University spends circa £125 million on goods, services and works per annum including major capital programmes and therefore has a significant opportunity to leverage its supply chain to deliver additional benefits to the University, students, local residents, businesses and communities.
By paying careful attention to how goods, services or works will be delivered, who may be delivering them and what else the supplier can do to deliver added value the University aims to deliver social value, improve environmental sustainability, promote ethical sourcing practices and encourage equality, diversity and inclusion.
To ensure a high level of understanding of the risks of modern slavery in our supply chains, awareness training is completed by Procurement staff.
The University is committed to acquiring goods, services or works without causing harm to others.
The University supports the Base Code of the Ethical Trading Initiative.
The Base Code is founded on the conventions of the International Labour Organisation (ILO) and is an internationally recognised code of labour practice.
The standards are:
The University has zero tolerance to slavery and human trafficking.
Any supplier or potential supplier who does not adhere to our values will be suspended or removed from the University's supplier list and will not be considered for future supply to the University unless they are able to demonstrate full adherence with the requirements of the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
Contract clauses around Modern Slavery have been introduced to all University contracts to ensure that should a supplier breach such conditions the University has the right to terminate the contract.
Due to the ever-changing nature of modern slavery and trafficking the University expresses its commitment to work towards greater transparency on the University's supply chains.
This will involve increased collaboration, increased supplier engagement, and increased awareness regarding the risks of modern slavery and trafficking.
This Statement has been reviewed by the University's Vice Chancellor’s Group and will be reviewed at least once annually.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/legal:
Browse key legal and regulatory information relating to the University and its various stakeholders.
As a University, our commitment to you is important and we therefore need regulations, policies and codes of conduct, which are designed to protect and maintain both academic quality and your rights and responsibilities as students of our University.
All reasonable care has been taken to ensure all course information is accurate, however, the University cannot guarantee that all courses will be available in exactly the form and detail described and it may be necessary to vary the content or availability of some courses.
We hope that you are happy with your experience at the University.
However, if this is not the case, please get in touch with us so that we can assist.
This page provides information to our external stakeholders who require information on our regulations and procedures.
Information regarding the University of Central Lancashire's companies and trusts.
The University complies with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and the Data Protection Act 2018 whenever it processes personal data.
View the University's statutory accounts, financial regulations and ethical investment policy.
This accessibility statement applies to uclan.ac.uk, run by the University of Central Lancashire (UCLan) as our main University website.
This cookie notice applies to uclan.ac.uk, run by the University of Central Lancashire (UCLan) as our main University website.
Read our guidance on how copyright applies to our uclan.ac.uk website and associated materials and content.
The University has implemented an integrated safety, health and environmental management system to manage its SHE legislative requirements and to identify and control risks before they lead to an undesired event.
The University has refreshed its Strategic Plan to further recognise that sustaining and enhancing the wellbeing of people, places and the planet are amongst the most important challenges we face today.
At UCLan we recognise that safeguarding, which includes the Prevent duty, is everyone’s responsibility.
As such, we are committed to supporting students, apprentices and visitors.
We are committed to safeguarding the welfare of our students, apprentices and staff and to meeting our duties under the Counter-Terrorism and Security Act 2015 and the UK Government's associated Prevent strategy.
It is expected that all colleagues will be aware of systems which support safeguarding and how to recognise and respond appropriately to safeguarding concerns.
We know it's important that all members of the UCLan community receive the appropriate level of safeguarding training.
This may involve some or all of the training on this webpage.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/legal/charity-information:
The University Board is the governing body of the University of Central Lancashire and its business is conducted in accordance with the Instrument and Articles of Government detailed below.
It delegates certain parts of its responsibilities to committees which are serviced and supported by the Clerk to the Board.
Charitable status
The university is an exempt charity as defined in the Charities Act 2011.
It is therefore subject to charity law but is not required to register with the Charity Commission and is not regulated by it.
As an exempt charity, the University does not have a registered charity number.
The Office for Students (OfS) is the principal regulator of higher education institutions that are exempt charities.
In addition to governors' responsibilities under the Instrument and Articles of Government and to the OfS, members of the Governing Body are also charity trustees.
The names of our trustees can be viewed on the University Board of Governors’ page .
The charitable purpose of the university is the advancement of education for the public benefit.
The statement on public benefit can be viewed within the financial statements on our Financial Information page .
Legal name and correspondence address
The University’s legal name is University of Lancashire.
Its principal place of business and address for correspondence is University of Lancashire, Preston, Lancashire, PR1 2HE.
The Committee believes that ' Seven Principles of Public Life ' should apply to all in the public service.
These are:
Selflessness Holders of public office should act solely in terms of the public interest.
They should not do so in order to gain financial or other benefits for themselves, their family or their friends.
Integrity Holders of public office should not place themselves under any financial or other obligation to outside individuals or organisations that might seek to influence them in the performance of their official duties.
Objectivity In carrying out public business, including making public appointments, awarding contracts, or recommending individuals for rewards and benefits, holders of public office should make choices on merit.
Accountability Holders of public office are accountable for their decisions and actions to the public and must submit themselves to whatever scrutiny is appropriate to their office.
Openness Holders of public office should be as open as possible about all the decisions and actions that they take.
They should give reasons for their decisions and restrict information only when the wider public interest clearly demands.
Honesty Holders of public office have a duty to declare any private interests relating to their public duties and to take steps to resolve any conflicts arising in a way that protects the public interest.
Leadership Holders of public office should promote and support these principles by leadership and example.
If you require further information about the work of the Board, please email the Deputy Clerk to the Board, Fiona Winters, or telephone +44 (0)1772 894002.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/legal/copyright:
Read our guidance on how copyright applies to our lancashire.ac.uk website and associated materials and content.
All rights, including copyright, in the content of these web pages (including, but not limited to, the UCLan logo, and all text, layout, graphics, video, audio, downloads and HTML/CSS/JavaScript code) are owned or controlled for these purposes by the University of Central Lancashire unless otherwise stated.
Our University web pages may or may not contain links to many external web sites which are not affiliated with us.
We are not responsible for and has no control over these sites.
Links to external sites should not be taken as a recommendation or endorsement of the external site's content, information, products and/or services.
In accessing our web pages at lancashire.ac.uk, you agree that you may only download the content for your own personal non-commercial use.
The material on these web pages should not be used, copied, stored or transmitted outside the University network without the prior written consent of the University of Central Lancashire or in accordance with the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988 .
Applications for written consent should be made to the copyright holder.
If it is not apparent who the copyright holder is, please email us .
Our logo and names University of Central Lancashire and UCLan are our registered trademarks and should not be used without express permission.
Requests to use our University logo should be emailed to our Brand Team .
The University copyright service can advise on our copyright licences, as well as offering a range of educational copyright extensions.
The University holds the following copyright licences:
Contact the copyright team via email for further information.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/events/listing/campus-tours-preston:
Applying through Clearing?
Join a student-led tour of our Preston Campus and see what life at the University of Central Lancashire is like.
See below for campus tour times during Clearing for our Preston Campus.
You must book to attend a campus tour .
If a date isn't available on the booking link yet, you can email the Campus Tour Team to book directly.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/subjects/pharmacy:
Enjoy an excellent learning environment with state-of-the-art industry standard pharmaceutical science laboratories and pharmacy practice suite with flexible teaching spaces and clinical skills areas to prepare you for a career as a pharmacist.
Inter-professional learning sessions throughout our MPharm mean you’ll work alongside students from other professional healthcare programmes, such as medical and nursing students.
This means you'll graduate as a well-rounded member of the healthcare team.
Our postgraduate programmes provide the qualifications, skills and knowledge to develop your career in your specific field.
MPharm graduates will need to undertake a pre-registration training year to become a qualified pharmacist.
You may then consider postgraduate study, or training to become an independent prescriber.
Postgraduate study could allow hospital-based staff progression to higher AfC banding and community practitioners a move into practice-based/GP-patient facing roles.
MPharm graduates undertake a pre-registration year to become qualified pharmacists.
You may then consider postgraduate study or training to become an independent prescriber.
Studying pharmacy could lead to a future career as a:
Progression routes for hospital-based staff may lead to:
Interested in studying a degree with us?
From exploring accommodation to visiting us at an Open Day, find out everything you need to know about life at UCLan.
Pharmacology is the study of drugs.
Drugs are taken for therapeutic and recreational reasons.
They will always have some effect (albeit possibly very minor) on how the body works in either health or disease.
Pharmacology studies the reasons for those effects.
This includes why some drugs are used for certain conditions.
As well as why some drugs have particular side effects or why some drugs interact together.
Pharmacy is the profession of dispensing medicines prescribed by a doctor.
To be a Pharmacist you need a Pharmacy (MPharm) degree.
The Pharmacist will have studied some Pharmacology as part of their degree, but not in as much depth as Pharmacology students.
Pharmacy includes Pharmaceutics (how medicines are packaged and prepared).
It also covers Pharmacy Practice (the clinical interaction with patients).
Pharmacology will go into more detail about the underlying physiology and disease processes.
It also incorporates more lab work to train students to be confident and skilled to work in a research lab.
The field of Pharmacology is constantly evolving to develop and improve medical therapeutics.
So our course has a focus on research exploring how new treatments will be discovered.
This will equip you with the skills to go into medical research.
Recent graduates have used the course content on the drug development process to work managing clinical trials.
They have also used the extensive practical lab hours to find work in industrial labs or as a postgraduate research student.
The course also provides a thorough grounding in human biology to appreciate the effects of a drug and how it affects the diseased state.
Graduates often use this knowledge to go into teaching or postgraduate medicine.
A science background is required to study Pharmacology.
Entry requirements are currently:

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/discover/engineering:
Engineering moves quickly – AI, automation, big data and more are developing at a rapid pace.
The industry is always changing.
There are lifelong careers in solving big problems like building cities that last and fighting climate change.
Engineers design, test and build machines, structures and processes using maths and science.
You’ll get a rewarding career in a discipline dedicated to problem solving.
The devices we use to communicate, the processes that manufacture our medicines - they come from engineers.
You'll use maths and science to achieve incredible things and find solutions to the world’s most complicated challenges.
It’s an exciting industry that makes a big difference.
We have a range of industry-relevant connections to give you the opportunities you need to gain practical experience.
Previous placements providers include, BAE Systems, Airbus, McLaren and Rolls-Royce.
You’ll get the skills needed to become an innovator and game-changer.
We’re teaching people to make the engineering world a better place.
You’ll graduate career-ready with a wealth of experience ready for employment.
We’re proud to have earned the Athena Swan Bronze status, in recognition of our direct support for women within the School,.
We enable women who study with us to transition into industry.
The Athena Swan project is a charter scheme, aiming to address issues around gender and diversity.
Our Women’s Engineering Network - a friendly group of women students and staff - regularly meet to explore all aspects of engineering and to offer each other mutual support at university and beyond.
Our courses are designed to make you employable.
We aim to give you all the knowledge and skills modern employers are looking for.
You'll get to use industry-standard facilities and will be taught academics with real-world experience of the subjects they teach.
We also make sure you’re supported every step of the way.
Our dedicated student support team is always on hand to help - before, during and after your studies.
BEng (Hons) Motorsport Engineering student Martin Pankratov developed a new drivetrain model during his placement at McLaren.
Visiting us in person is the best way to find out what life at the University of Central Lancashire is really like.
Book an upcoming Open Day or Campus Tour and explore our different campuses, facilities and chat to current students.
Book an Open Day to discover more about your subject area.
Explore our campus, facilities and find out what uni life is really like.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/subjects/psychology:
On our psychology degree courses, you’ll learn how to apply psychological knowledge to academic and real world issues.
Discover the mind and behaviour, enabling you to understand the way people act, react and interact.
You’ll benefit from hands-on learning with access to over 30 state-of-the-art laboratory facilities.
Fantastic facilities support the experiential learning environment including custom-designed laboratories such as the Health Suite, Cognitive Complex, Psychophysiology Suite, and the Brain Imaging Lab.
During your studies, you’ll be taught by academics that produce nationally and internationally recognised research, which has an impact both in academia and in our working and everyday lives.
You’ll have the opportunity to engage further with this research through paid internships, participation in research conferences, or publish work alongside peers and staff.
Susanne Shrewsbury - MSc Psychology Conversion
I mostly teach clinical psychology on the BSc Psychology , the MSc in Clinical Psychology and the TAPP Course.
Apart from teaching, I supervise students’ placements and final year projects and I am the first-year tutor for three BSc courses.
When students get excited about something I am teaching, and they start discussing the topic with me or between them, or when they stop to have a chat with me at the end of a lecture, that’s the best part of my job
Our psychology degree equips you with a range of skills which open up many opportunities.
What jobs can you get with a psychology degree?
Psychology is located in the multi-million pound, purpose-built Darwin Building, housing over 30 state-of-the-art laboratories to provide you with a first-class learning environment.
These fantastic facilities support your experiential learning - laboratories are equipped with the latest equipment to ensure you graduate with contemporary skills and knowledge of direct benefit to you and your potential employers.
You will receive support from a passionate large staff base, teaching in their areas of expertise.
The Professors in Psychology all lecture on their own specialist topics at various points of the different degree programmes.
The inspiration and understanding that can be gained from these staff encourages many of our students to seek further qualifications either through our taught master's provision or through postgraduate research qualifications.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/discover/sport:
At the University of Central Lancashire we are committed to making sport better on every level.
Our students, graduates and staff reshape the world of sport from local grassroots to global elite performances.
They impact everything from individual participation to team wellbeing.
We love sport as much as you do.
We know it's essential to health and wellbeing.
We break down barriers to make sure sport is accessible for everyone.
We're coaches and therapists, talent scouts, sport science innovators and elite athletes.
We're also gym-goers and players for fun.
Whatever your personal ambitions and experience in sport, there’s a place here for you.
We create future professionals ready to step into the team behind every team or champion.
That could be in nutrition, sports science, coaching and leadership, sports therapy and more.
By studying sports with us, you'll get the tools and expertise to thrive in the dynamic world of sport.
You’ll be able to make a difference at every level.
Whether that's tackling health challenges, coaching elite performers, or making sport accessible to all.
Liam was already a professional rugby league player when he chose to study a sports and exercise science course with us.
He balanced his studies whilst playing for Wigan Warriors and is now captain of the club .
By specialising in strength and conditioning, he was able to improve his performance and shape his future career.
Liam.
Wigan Warriors legend and one of our students.
With over 35 clubs and the option to turn up and play, there's something for everyone at The University of Central Lancashire.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/schools/arts-and-media:
Want to be an artist, designer, filmmaker or journalist?
We offer an exhilarating environment for creative minds in the School of Arts and Media.
We are passionate about helping you achieve your potential.
UCLan Publishing is our award-winning independent children’s publishing arm , that empowers students to ‘learn on the job’.
In recent years the team have worked with big-name authors such as Jaqueline Wilson and Jane Johnson to give the students experience of big trade, commercial publishing.
Our students even supported the promotion of A.J.
Hartley’s book, Cold Bath Street , which went on to become a national bestseller.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/subjects/nursing:
All our pre-registration programmes, at both BSc and MSc level, include the academic and clinical education required to become a registered nurse and obtain professional registration with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) on graduation.
As part of this course, you’ll develop close links with healthcare providers across the whole of the central Lancashire area including NHS trusts across Preston and Fylde Coast, who provide clinical placements where you can gain a unique insight into how healthcare is managed in all settings within Nursing.
You’ll practise healthcare in our state-of-the-art facilities, along with real-world work experience to help develop communication, problem-solving, and reflection skills.
This will lead you onto career pathways within the healthcare sector, or onto postgraduate level study.
We also offer a wide range of postgraduate and CPD courses for qualified nurses and a route back for those that have left the profession and wish to return.
Discover our range of routes into nursing .
Nursing placements enrich your learning with practical, hands-on experience.
You can apply what you've learned to real healthcare settings, as well as gain valuable skills and confidence.
Our blended learning option is available for students studying Adult or Mental Health nursing.
This programme is designed with flexibility in mind, with 80% of learning delivered online and 20% as in-person sessions delivered in structured blocks for hands-on experience.
Following a career break, there are lots of options for you to return to nursing.
Refresh your skills and knowledge so you can confidently return to the nursing workforce.
Before returning, you’ll need to re-join the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) register.
Depending on the time you have spent out of nursing, you can either reapply or complete a return to nursing course such as this one.
At UCLan, the theoretical element of the return to nursing practice course is 12 weeks long.
You'll also need to complete between 150 – 450 hours of clinical practice.
Clinical hours are assessed following a successful interview using a diagnostic assessment tool.
The average starting salary for a nurse in 2024 is £30,000 according to the National Careers Service .
This can go up to £45,000 the more experience you get.
The qualifications you need depends on the route you take to becoming a nurse .
You can read our guide on how to become a nurse .
To study a nursing degree at university, you'll typically need:
Entry requirements may vary for the course and institution you’re applying to so always check before you apply.
To find how to apply as an international student head over to our ' How to apply ' page.
International students will be required to write a personal statement, for guidance on this check out our personal statement support page.
Graduates are able to pre-register to become a registered nurse.
This allows you to obtain professional registration with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC).
As a Registered Nurse, you’ll have all the skills and knowledge you need to make a real difference to people’s lives.
Interested in becoming a nurse in the UK?
Discover the benefits, qualifications, and different routes you can take to pursue a career as a nurse .
Careers available to successful nursing graduates:

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/discover/business:
Some see business as a grey world of boardrooms and balance sheets.
We see a different world of business.
A modern vision of enterprise.
Find out about studying business at the University of Central Lancashire.
We won Best Entrepreneurial University at the Educate North Awards 2023.
This recognised our work with thousands of student start-ups and businesses in the North West.
It’s time to look beyond the boundaries of dull corporate culture and imagine something more open, more positive, more diverse.
Because business isn’t an exclusive world to break into.
It’s a world that’s yours to create.
Beyond Business – Meet Matt
Got a great business idea?
With expert support from our Student Enterprise Hub, we can help you set up and run your own start-up company.
There's no need to wait until you graduate.
Learn more about student life, including food, drinks, sport and nightlife.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/clearing/why-choose-us:
Trying to decide which university to choose through Clearing?
We'll support you every step of the way through Clearing.
Apply through Clearing today.
We have places available on a range of undergraduate courses starting this September.
Let us know your qualifications and we may be able to make you an offer in minutes.
Am I too late for uni?!
Olivia’s path through Clearing
Preston is a vibrant, multicultural city in the heart of the North West, making it the perfect place to live, work and play.
Find out what to expect from your student experience and why you'll love living in the North West.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/clearing/how-clearing-works:
Confused about how Clearing works?
Our guide to Clearing will help you prepare, so you can apply with confidence.
This step by step guide tells you how to apply for a course through Clearing and what steps to take once you receive your offer.
The guidance below is for Clearing 2025 and tells you what to do once you have received your results.
For most people, this will be on Thursday 14 August.
On results day, make sure you check your UCAS Hub as early as possible to confirm the status of your applications.
If you are eligible for Clearing, you will automatically be entered into the Clearing process.
UCAS say you can use Clearing in 2025 if:
Looking for your UCAS ID number?
If you haven't yet applied to any universities through UCAS, you can apply directly to us through Clearing.
We can make you an offer if you already have your results.
Or you can apply once you receive your results on results day.
Many courses will still have available places during Clearing but it is important to check this before you apply.
Use our Clearing course list to search for your course.
Have your grades, personal details and UCAS ID (if you have one) ready as well as a pen and paper for any notes.
We may ask you why you're interested in a particular course so be prepared.
You may need to have an interview for some courses, to check your suitability.
If this is the case, you will be guided through the process and told when to attend your interview (if it's not right away).
Now that Clearing is officially open, you can apply online or by telephone.
Apply for Clearing through our online Clearing application form .
If you are successful, you will receive an automatic offer via email within a few minutes.
By telephone
Phone lines open at 8am on results day so don't wait around.
Call us on +44 (0)1772 830777 .
Make sure you contact us yourself as we will want to talk to you directly.
We will have a chat with you about the course you want to apply for and your qualifications.
We can make you a preliminary offer right there on the spot.
Calls don't usually last longer than a few minutes.
We will tell you if you have been accepted onto your course of choice there and then, unless your course requires interview or portfolio.
​If you applied through UCAS, remember to accept your Clearing offer.
The steps you can take to accept your offer are:
The Admissions Team will then review the referral and confirm your place for you.
You may need to send in evidence of qualifications or results to confirm your offer.
Clearing next steps
Applied through Clearing and wondering what happens next?
We'll take you through the process on our Clearing next steps webpage.
From student finance and accommodation , to preparing for uni life , we've got you covered.
Clearing at the University of Central Lancashire
We've put together a timeline of key dates for your diary.
Please visit the UCAS website for detailed information on times and dates for Clearing .
UCAS Clearing is open
Clearing officially opened on UCAS on 5 July 2025.
You will automatically be entered into Clearing if you apply through UCAS from 5 July 2025.
A Level, access courses and BTEC results
A Level results day is Thursday 14 August 2025.
BTEC and access course results will vary but all results are expected to be released by Thursday 15 August 2025.
If you have outstanding GCSE results, please note these are released on the 21 August 2025 – you will need to send those to us directly by email to the Admissions Team .
Open Day
Attend our Preston Campus Open Day on Sunday 17 August before you start in September.
You can explore your subject, chat with tutors and students, and tour the campus and accommodation.
Campus tours
If you can't make our Open Day or you're interested in our Burnley Campus, we have regular student-led campus tours taking place throughout August.
Explore our fantastic campuses and discover what life is like here.
If you're not able to attend campus in person, you can still check out the facilities.
View 360 guided tours and other exclusive content .
Enrolment
Enrolment is the formal step which confirms your status as a student with us and allows you to access to all University services.
Find out more about enrolment on our webpage .
Clearing application deadline
The deadline for submitting applications through Clearing is usually the week before teaching starts in September.
Welcome Week
Welcome Week is your opportunity to learn more about university life before your course begins.
You'll find all of the information you need on our welcome pages .

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/clearing/faqs:
Have questions about Clearing?
We've put together the answers to some common questions about Clearing below.
These include what to do if you don't get the grades and how to apply for accommodation.
Clearing 2025 officially opens on 5 July 2025.
Results day for most people will be on Thursday 14 August 2025.
Clearing 2025 will open on UCAS on 5 July 2025.
Visit our how Clearing works webpage for information on how to apply.
When Clearing opens we have an online form available to use.
Phone lines open early on results day so don't wait around.
Make sure you contact us yourself as we will want to talk to you.
Through chat
Chat will open later this year and you'll be able to use our live chat to speak to our team.
Here we'll speak to you about your results and if you meet the entry requirements, we might be able to make you an offer.
You can only add a Clearing choice once you have permission from the university.
You can still apply to us through the normal application cycle.
To find an undergraduate course for 2025, use our course search or discover our subjects .
If you have received an offer from us, we'll send you an email with information about what to do next.
Please follow the information detailed within the email carefully.
If you applied through UCAS you can log on to UCAS Hub (previously UCAS Track) to accept your place by clicking the 'Add Clearing choice' button.
Enter the course details and institution code (C30).
For more information about what to do next, visit our Clearing next steps webpage.
Once you have your results, you need to check your UCAS Hub (previously UCAS Track) as early as possible to confirm your application status if you applied via UCAS.
You'll automatically be entered into the Clearing process if you are eligible.
This may be because you didn't receive any offers or you didn't get the results you needed.
You can apply through Clearing by calling your university of choice.
Most universities will have a variety of ways to apply.
At UCLan , you can contact us via:
On results day, the phone lines usually open at 8am.
Our normal opening hours are 9am to 5pm.
When calling to discuss your Clearing options, we recommend having the following information to hand:
Confirming your Clearing offer can take anything from a few minutes up to enrolment.
Usually offers are confirmed within a couple of days.
Confirming your place depends on a variety of factors.
These factors include your qualifications/results and the course you're applying for.
Once you have received an offer, you will receive an email confirming what you need to do next.
Yes, you can go through Clearing even if you have current other offers.
However, you have to decline your existing offers on your UCAS Hub before you can apply through Clearing.
Before you do this, we encourage you to explore your options with any universities you're interested in applying to through Clearing.
It's best to get in contact with your chosen university to discuss:
You should consider these points before declining any of your current offers.
Clearing is available for anyone who applied to university through UCAS and currently has no offers, or has declined all offers made.
You can also go through Clearing if you have not previously applied and have just decided you want to study at university.
This means that if you were eligible to apply for a course through UCAS, you will be eligible to enter Clearing.
UCAS state you can use Clearing in 2025 if:
Attend our Preston Campus Open Day in August before you start in September.
If you can't make our Open Day, we have regular student-led campus tours taking place throughout August.
Entry requirements for courses during Clearing can vary, and are often different to entry requirements during the main cycle.
Just give us a call when our phone lines are open.
We may still be able to accept you on to the degree for which you applied even if you don’t meet all the conditions of your offer.
We'll make these decisions as quickly as possible and will update the status of your application on UCAS Hub (previously UCAS Track) as soon as we can.
If the University cannot accept you onto your original course choice, we may be able to offer you an alternative course.
For example, a course with a foundation year .
If this is the case, we will email you to let you know.
You'll also see this on your UCAS Hub .
You must accept or decline the offer via UCAS Hub within five days once you've received a decision from both you Firm and Insurance choices.
If you accept it, information about course enrolment will be sent to you and your first choice accommodation guarantee will still stand.
If we're unable to offer you a place, or you decline an offer for an alternative course, you'll be released to take up your insurance place or enter Clearing.
If you've not received all of your results, please don’t worry.
You should email the Admissions Team as soon as you receive your missing results.
Please indicate clearly that the email relates to missing results in the subject heading.
Ensure you include your name and UCAS Personal ID so we can identify your application quickly.
If you've received your examination results and are waiting for a re-mark, please note that this will need to be entered as a priority re-mark.
You do not need to contact the University until the outcome of the re-mark is known.
If you've met the conditions of your insurance choice, but haven't been successful at your firm choice, UCAS will notify you that your insurance choice has been confirmed.
However, check UCAS Hub as your firm choice university may have accepted you even with different grades.
If you'd like to defer entry, please email confirmation to the Admissions Team .
You should indicate clearly in the subject line of the message that your enquiry relates to deferred entry.
You should also include your full name, UCAS Personal ID, and the reason you wish to change your year of entry.
We will then consider the request depending on the course and availability of places.
Similarly, if you're holding an offer for deferred entry and now wish to come at another date instead, you'll need to put the request in writing.
Remember to quote your UCAS Personal ID, full name, the course name and the reason you wish to change your year of entry.
You can email this to to the Admissions Office .
We will then consider the request depending on the availability of places.
If you decide not to take up your place at UCLan you can choose to be released into Clearing.
This will allow you to seek a place at another institution.
You are able to self-release your place through UCAS Hub , unless you have already enrolled with us and your first term of studies has started.
To do this you will need to contact us through the Student Hub using your university account details.
If you decide not to take up your place and no longer wish to study at any university in the UK, then we will need to receive confirmation of this from you in writing.
Please email the Admissions Team indicating clearly in the subject line of the message that your enquiry relates to withdrawal of your place.
You should also include your full name, UCAS Personal ID and reason for your decision.
We have accommodation available at all our campuses.
Once our Admissions Team have confirmed your place at UCLan, you will be able to make accommodation arrangements.
We guarantee accommodation at Preston Campus for all first year students who apply through Clearing.
Please visit our accommodation page to start researching the accommodation we offer here Here you will also find information about fees, and how to apply.
When you apply, make sure you have your University registration number handy.
You'll need this at the point of application.
Our friendly Accommodation Team are also on hand to answer any questions you may have.
They can be contacted on +44 (0) 1772 892529 .
For data protection reasons, the University is only able to discuss your situation with you once you provide us with your UCAS Personal ID.
This lets us identify your application and ensure we are talking to the correct person.
We do prefer to talk to you personally.
But, in some cases you might have asked your parents or another third party to ring on your behalf.
In these circumstances, the person will need to be registered as the nominated contact with UCAS.
We will ask for another form of identification from them, as well as your UCAS Personal ID.
We know going to university is a big decision, especially if you’re not sure which direction to take.
That’s where we can help.
We have a team of dedicated careers advisors.
They're on hand to help you choose a course that's right for you.
Simply call us on +44 (0)1772 830777 and we’ll be happy to talk you through your options.
Once our Admissions Team have confirmed your place, head over to our Welcome Portal.
Follow the handy checklist to prepare for your arrival.
You'll also receive lots of important emails from us over the next few days.
So, keep checking your inbox and junk folder for details, and respond as soon as possible.
You can also visit our Clearing next steps page for information on what happens next.
It may simply be that we have your incorrect personal details and we are unable to send written confirmation of your Clearing offer.
This could be the wrong email or mobile number.
Please call the Clearing hotline on +44 (0)1772 830777 .
You should advise the Clearing Team that you have already discussed a Clearing offer with us but have not received email confirmation.
Clearly state your name, and course you’ve received an offer for.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/clearing/next-steps:
We're here to guide you through the next steps, from student finance to accommodation and wellbeing support.
Congratulations on your offer for your chosen course through Clearing .
Below you'll find a step-by-step guide to what happens next.
If you have already applied through UCAS and have a UCAS Personal ID:
The Admissions Team will then review the referral and confirm your place.
Call us on +44 (0)1772 892444 if you have any questions.
If you have not applied through UCAS:
Once our Admissions Team have received your documents, they will process your application, this may take a minimum of five working days.
When satisfied that your details match up with the information you provided to us verbally, your place will be confirmed via email.
If you'd like to visit us our Westlakes Campus please email the team so that we can arrange a tour for you.
If you're not able to attend campus in person, you can still explore your new home by viewing 360 guided tours and other exclusive content .
If you want to live on campus
Once our Admissions Team have confirmed your place, you can apply for a place in our halls of residence.
Visit our accommodation page to start researching the accommodation we offer.
Here you will also find information about fees and how to apply.
Email the Accommodation Team or call +44 (0)1772 892529 .
If you'll be living at home
Many of our students live at home and commute to university for their studies.
Our campuses have great transport links.
This makes getting to campus and getting around convenient, accessible, and safe.
There's a range of travel options for you to choose from.
From walking and cycling to public transport.
There are lots of discounts on travel for students too.
If you're a local student thinking about travelling to uni, our commuter students page has all the information you need to help you decide.
If you have already applied for student finance , you’ll need to amend your existing application with the university/course details.
If you've yet to apply for a student loan, you should do so quickly, as it’s not guaranteed that the money will be in your account when you start.
You can still apply for scholarships and bursaries that you might be eligible for to help with living costs.
Find out more in our student finance and Clearing guide .
Explore budgeting tips and tools to manage your finances on our financial support page .
You will also find information on part-time jobs, money-saving hacks and discounts.
The Student Support Team offer a drop-in service to help you with questions about:
To access this support, drop into the Student Centre and visit the support team on the lower ground floor.
The Student Centre is open Monday to Thursday 9am to 5pm and Friday 9am to 4pm.
You could also call the Student Support Team on 01772 891828 during their opening hours listed above.
Prefer to email?
You can email our Student Support Team .
If you need support with submitting funding applications to external providers you are welcome to bring your own laptop or device and we'll be on hand to answer questions.
You can complete the online application forms in the Student Centre.
We are unable to offer a one-to-one service to sit with you while forms are completed and may be unable to advise on certain aspects of the application process as a third party.
Support before you arrive Our mental health support was ranked 3rd in the UK in the University Mental Health Table (HUMEN, 2022) .
Our outstanding Support Team will be with you every step of the way.
You’ll be supported from the moment you are offered your place to study with us.
Inclusive support
The inclusive support team are here to help you in setting up support before you start your studies.
If you have a disability, long term health condition, mental health condition or a specific learning difficulty, it's important you make the inclusive support team aware as soon as possible.
This is so any support and reasonable adjustments are in place as soon as your start your course.
To access support you can:
If you haven’t already done so, please complete our disclosure form to provide us with more information on how best we can support you.
You may also be eligible for Disabled Students Allowances (DSA) .
If you meet the criteria, and have yet to apply we encourage you to do so as soon as possible.
If you need any help in applying, please do contact us and we will be able to provide you with support with this.
If you think you are not eligible then please contact us and we will look into providing you with further support.
Get to know your classmates You can talk to your future classmates in your course Facebook group and get ready for Welcome Week and your induction.
Use our welcome checklist Head over to the welcome portal to arrange everything from accommodation to enrolling at university.
You're not alone as you start this new chapter.
We'll help you every step of the way to ensure you have a successful start on your chosen course.
After you've received your Clearing 2025 offer, there are things you need to do to secure your place with us.
This includes accepting your offer and confirming any outstanding results.
It may also include applying for accommodation or student finance .
Check out the step-by-step guidance to find out more.
On UCAS, Clearing is open from 5 July to the 21 October.
At our University, Clearing is open from 5 July to the start of our Welcome Week .
Students who apply through Clearing don't usually start any later than students who applied in the main cycle.
Our Clearing deadline is 23 September which is the same week as Welcome Week.
This means you should not miss any of your important classes.
You should still be able to get involved with Welcome Week activities.
Visit our welcome portal for more information on preparing to start at UCLan.
It can take up to six weeks for Student Finance England to process your application.
This may be longer in Clearing, so you should apply as soon as possible.
If you have already applied but have changed course or university, you should update your application as soon as possible.
You can find out more in our student finance and Clearing guide .
If you have any questions or concerns, call us on +44 (0)1772 891828 or email our Student Support Team .
The student support team offer a drop-in service to help you with questions about managing your money and preparing your finances for university.
We can also provide some support with applications to external funding providers such as the Student Finance England and the NHS.
To access our support:
If you need support with submitting funding applications to external providers you’re welcome to bring your own laptop/device and complete the online application forms from the Student Centre.
This is so you can ask questions along the way.
We are unable to offer a one-to-one service to sit with you while forms are completed.
We may be unable to advise on certain aspects of the application process as a third party.
You do still need to meet entry requirements to get a place on a course during Clearing.
However, even if you don't think you meet the entry requirements listed on our website, give us a call.
We often take into account other things alongside qualifications and may still be able to make you an offer.
If you are unsuccessful in getting a place on a course during Clearing, don't be disheartened.
You may wish to consider studying on of our Return to Study programmes.
These free six-week short courses will help you make the transition to university study.
Yes, you can get accommodation through Clearing at UCLan.
We guarantee a room in halls, on c ampus, for all new full-time students at our Preston Campus.
There are spaces at Burnley and Westlakes too.
Check out our accommodation information above or visit our accommodation webpage .
We look forward to welcoming our new and returning students to the University of Central Lancashire.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/undergraduate/ucas-points-calculator:
Our UCAS points calculator helps you to understand the entry requirements for your university course.
Simply enter your qualifications and grades to get started.
Loading...
A number of factors can influence the qualifications you achieve in school or college.
Enter your postcode into the calculator to check whether you might be eligible for a reduced entry tariff .
UCAS points convert your grades into a number of points.
Most post-16 qualifications will have a UCAS points value, including A Levels, BTECs and some apprenticeships.
The amount of UCAS points you get will vary according to the grade and qualification.
The higher your grade, the more UCAS points you will receive.
Try our UCAS points calculator or take a look at our UCAS points table .
We use UCAS points to make sure you meet the entry requirements for a particular course.
Universities who use UCAS points instead of grades offer more flexibility.
This is because an offer that is grade-based offer (e.g.
ABC) means you must achieve that specific combination of grades.
On the other hand, an offer that's based on UCAS points allows you to use a combination of grades.
For example, you could get 96 UCAS points with a CCC, BBE or ADD at A Level.
A level grades UCAS points table.
BTEC grades UCAS points table.
You can get 96 UCAS points through a number of combinations of grades.
For example, CCC at A level is 96 points.
You could also get 96 points with a BBE or ADD.
You can get 104 UCAS points through a few different combinations of grades, including BCC at A level.
You can also get 104 UCAS points with BBD or ABE.
You can get 112 UCAS points through a number of combinations of grades.
That includes BBC or ABD at A level.
You could also get 112 UCAS points with an AAE.
You can get 120 UCAS points in a number of ways, including BBB at A level.
You can also get 120 UCAS points with an ABC or A*BD.
You can get 128 UCAS points with an ABB at A level.
You can also get 128 UCAS points with an A*BC or A*AD.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/clearing/results-day-parents-guide:
You’re probably feeling anxious as your child awaits their A Level/BTEC results, and this is completely understandable.
We’ve got some top tips for parents and carers to help your child navigate their results day.
A lot of students will be worrying if they have done enough to get the grades they need to get into their chosen university.
Reassure your child beforehand that they have done the best they can and it’s not the end of the world if they don’t achieve their expected grades.
Every year, thousands of students get their university places through Clearing .
UCAS Clearing is available and shows all the university places that are available across all universities and subject areas.
Our Clearing Team have a group of dedicated careers advisers.
They're on hand to help your child choose a course that's right for them.
Simply call us on +44 (0)1772 830777 and we’ll be happy to talk through options.
We offer support and places to those who didn’t achieve their expected grades or have changed their mind about their university or course choices.
Some universities (including us) will make live offers via social media , so this is another route to pursue.
Even if your child doesn't have the grades for their preferred course, they should contact their chosen universities first.
They may still be able to offer them a place.
We have courses with a foundation year available for those who don’t quite have the grades needed so this could be another route in.
It’s important to remain calm and explore alternative universities and courses that are in Clearing.
Phone lines may be busy so they may need to be prepared for a wait.
Things move fast once the results are out so it’s a good idea to have a contingency plan.
Encourage your child to explore alternative courses offered in Clearing at other universities.
They can do this by checking university websites to see what’s available and making a note of their telephone number.
Your child will need to have:
Being prepared beforehand will help with making any decisions on the morning of Results Day.
It’s easy for the panic and adrenaline to set in on Results Day but encourage your child to keep an open mind about other universities and courses.
There are still plenty of options to be considered including:
They may feel uncomfortable about another university that they hadn’t considered earlier but many universities will have campus tours available in person and online, if they feel they need to visit before making a firm decision.
If they need advice, they can always talk to someone at college too for guidance.
If your child is accepting an insurance offer or a place through Clearing, they’ll also need accommodation at their chosen university.
Be prepared as this may take time - viewing different halls online when web traffic will be high, and completing online forms can be time consuming.
It’s also handy to know that we guarantee accommodation at Preston Campus for all first year students who apply through Clearing.
So that’s one less thing to worry about.
And, we offer some of the best value accommodation , starting at just £85 a week, our on campus accommodation is almost half the national average.
We're the most affordable university (The Times, 2023).
Check out our financial support page to find out more about our support and money saving tips.
Take a look at our FAQs page to find answers.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/clearing/sophie:
I had a feeling that I hadn’t done that well in my exams, but it was still a shock to see that I’d been rejected by my first choice.
All of my friends were celebrating, but I had no idea where to go from here.
I wasn’t even sure what I wanted to study any more.
Clearing isn't really spoken about in college.
It's treated as this scary thing that you only find out about when you need to know.
Luckily, I had done a bit of research about Clearing beforehand.
Clearing is for students who might not have been accepted into university, or who don’t want to go to the university where they have been accepted.
You can also go through Clearing if you want to study a different course, for example, if you applied for History but want to study English Literature instead.
During Clearing, you can apply for different courses at different universities.
These courses normally have lower entry requirements, as universities look to fill up their spaces.
As I was researching universities, I came across UCLan.
I had originally applied for psychology, but no longer wanted to study that.
UCLan had a big list of courses that were in Clearing.
This made it really easy to find the courses that I could apply for.
I could even filter it to suit my interests.
I still wasn’t sure what I wanted to study.
As I was scrolling through the list, I came across filmmaking .
‘I like films’, I thought to myself.
I read the course description and thought it sounded good.
I had a chat with my friends and they encouraged me to apply.
I don’t like phone calls, so I was feeling nervous about calling up.
As I was reading, an icon popped up to chat with one of the Clearing advisors.
This made it so much easier for me.
I messaged the advisor saying hello and explaining that I would like to apply through Clearing.
They asked me what course I wanted to apply for and about my grades.
When I had told them all of this, they gave me an offer.
It was that easy!
All I had to do was email over my details and proof of my grades.
Once I had done that, I got a text and an email confirming my place at university.
It was such a relief – I still have that text to this day.
Then, I just logged into my Student Finance and clicked ‘make a change’.
All I had to do was change the university on my application to UCLan.
I didn’t have to re-apply or fill out any more forms.
It was simple.
I am so glad that I came to UCLan.
The support from my tutors has been incredible.
Even when I decided to switch courses from filmmaking to archaeology and anthropology , my tutors were 100% behind me.
The Archaeology course leader spoke to me and answered any questions that I had.
Now I am happier than ever, studying the right course for me.
I’m even going to be the Academic Officer of the Archaeology Society next year – something I never thought I would be able to do.
I guess my main piece of advice to anyone going through Clearing is don’t worry.
If I had gone to my first-choice university, I wouldn’t have had the same support or opportunities that I’ve had at UCLan.
I may not even have been able to change my course.
So, no matter what happens, you will end up in the right place for you.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/clearing/iveta:
My Clearing experience started two years ago when I saw a free Return to Study course advertised that was running over the summer.
The course leader was really impressed with my performance and encouraged me to apply for the foundation year in International Tourism Management .
Because I’d missed the January UCAS deadline, I applied for the course through Clearing and started university that September.
I had a choice between starting in the first year or doing a foundation year.
Because English is not my native language, I decided to start with a foundation year to better prepare myself for the next stages of my education.
Applying to the foundation year through Clearing was easy.
I had to create a UCAS account and the only documentation I needed was my passport.
Since I already had my results, I applied through Clearing over email and got accepted straight away and everything was sorted out very quickly for me.
I applied originally to university in 2020, but when covid hit I postponed my education for two years.
I didn’t have any worries about going through Clearing, I was just really ready to start my studies and I knew exactly what course I wanted to study.
I’m really passionate about my course, International Tourism Management , and I wanted to study at UCLan for a couple of reasons.
Firstly, I have my house here, and secondly, my course is ranked first in the North West .
The course has exceeded my expectations with helpful lecturers and great opportunities to travel abroad.
Applying for student finance was incredibly easy.
I visited the Student Finance website , and completed the online application.
I'd received an acceptance email within a couple of days.
As a UK home student, I had to wait for the university to confirm my attendance before receiving any funds.
The entire application process took less than 20 minutes.
UCLan is an affordable university with loads of opportunities.
The campuses are close to each other, and the main Preston campus is only a 30-minute walk or a 10-minute bus ride from my house.
The campuses are modern, and the Student Centre offers plenty of study spaces and social areas to work and relax in.
My favourite place at UCLan is the Student Centre.
I love ordering an iced coffee during breaks and enjoying the roof terrace on a sunny day—it feels like you’re abroad.
I also love the library , where not only can you borrow academic books, but you can also borrow fictional books, saving me from having to buy them from a bookshop.
One of the best aspects of my course are the opportunities to study abroad .
In my first year, I went to Cyprus.
After finishing my foundation year, I was selected for a one month internship in South Korea, where I worked in a Korean school.
This summer, I’ll be heading to Bali to work on a marketing project, all organised by the university.
Commuting to university has been easy.
I walk from home in 30 minutes or take a 10-minute bus ride.
When the weather is nice, I cycle or walk.
Commuting has not been a barrier to making friends.
I’ve found it easy to meet people and have made friends from all over the world, including England, Pakistan, India, and Bulgaria.
I’ve met so many interesting people here that I wouldn’t have met if I didn’t study here.
I started working for UCLan as a wellbeing ambassador because I liked the idea of both working and studying here.
After my interview, I completed training in sight guidance, autism awareness, note-taking, guide dog training, and wheelchair assistance.
I’ve gained a lot of skills and enjoy helping other students have the best experience possible at university.
No one should miss lectures, get behind or miss out on anything that other students enjoy.
My advice for anyone going through Clearing is to be brave and don’t hesitate to ask questions.
The university staff are very friendly and will answer any questions you have about university life, subjects, societies, campuses, and accommodation.
There are many ways to get in touch, you can call, email, message them on social media or visit the campus.
UCLan has truly been a place of growth and opportunity for me, and I am excited about what the future holds.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/clearing/harvey:
Around late July, early August, I was going on holiday with my family when I mentioned to my mum that I wanted to go to university.
At the time, I had been working full time and felt like I didn’t have any time to pursue my creative passion.
My mum joked that I had left it late!
But she also let me know that I could go through Clearing.
I didn’t know what Clearing was at first, but my mum helped explain it to me.
I was a little worried that I had left it too late and I didn’t want to wait another year.
After that, while we were on holiday in Spain, I got on the phone with a person at the Clearing call centre.
She was really nice and helpful.
We didn’t have a full idea on how it all worked, but she helped explain it all.
She’d ask me questions about college and how many UCAS points I had.
I couldn’t remember as it’d been about 6 months since I left college, but she managed to find or work out the points on her end – and then she let me know that I could join the course I wanted!
I’d heard the word before, and I knew how it could help you get into university later, but I didn’t know the ins-and-outs of it.
I wasn't sure if you had to come in person, find it online or talk over the phone.
I also didn’t know how long the process would take, if it would be an hour or a month.
I thought it was going to be hard to go through the Clearing process, but they were really helpful and I’m glad that I’m here and still doing my course.
It took me around 5 hours to go through Clearing – but it was only because I kept forgetting passwords and the line kept cutting off because I was in Spain!
It was more technical issues on my end that slowed it down.
It would have been a lot quicker and easier if we had prepared in advance and were at home – but we still got it done.
I chose UCLan because It’s the only university nearby that has a standalone Screenwriting course.
I’ve learned so much on my course, and I feel I've become such a better writer.
I love the mates that I’ve made too.
I came a month later and at first it was a bit difficult settling in.
But after about a week I made a few mates and those bonds got deeper and deeper as time went on.
Everyone is lovely here – I’ve never met anyone I disliked.
It is a really nice atmosphere and I’ve met a few people from other courses too.
I also live in Lytham – which isn’t far away.
I didn’t want to live in accommodation or halls, so it was easy to come to a university close to where I live.
The tutors are amazing too.
Before your deadlines you can always send work for feedback and they’re always supportive.
They’re as passionate as you are too.
I’ve still got another year left so I’m excited to see where I am in another year’s time.
If you know exactly what you want to do, and want to be successful, come to uni.
Some people come here for the lifestyle, but I think if you know what you want to pursue then absolutely come to university.
There are so many courses here to choose from.
You’ve got professionals here who know everything about the industry you want to be in, they are here to help you do what you want.
They tell you the realities of what you need to do, which you wouldn’t get if you tried to do it all independently.
The university wants you here as much as you want to be here.
It’s a lovely uni and such a nice environment, and they want you here.
I was really panicking about the whole process, but I’d say now not to worry about it – you will be fine.
Also make sure you sort out your student finance, it’s never too late!
For the entire first year I didn’t have any student finance, so I was living off my work money that I got from my part-time job.
So in my second year I made sure to get it!
Going through the process and all the different websites can be a bit confusing at first but once you get the hang of it, it’s easy.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/clearing/sasha:
I didn't really know much about Clearing before - it had never been part of my plan.
I'm sharing my Clearing story to show that sometimes a change of plan can work out for the better.
Results day didn’t go the way that I expected.
I had missed out on my first-choice university by a grade and already knew that I didn’t want to go to my second-choice.
It felt like the end of the world.
Once I had calmed down, I went into action.
I knew that I wanted to study journalism, so me and my mum started researching the best journalism courses.
That’s how I came across the University of Central Lancashire.
I had a look at the Journalism BA (Hons) course and saw that it was in Clearing.
I read the modules to make sure that it covered all the areas I was interested in.
I want to be a presenter, so it was really important to find a course that would develop my presenting skills.
UCLan have a fully equipped TV studio, so I knew I could get experience in front of the camera.
Once I had decided that I wanted to study here, I phoned the Clearing hotline.
The person who answered was really kind and helpful.
I think it’s important to remember that even though it’s your first time going through Clearing, the advisors have done it all before.
That means they can answer your questions and tell you everything you need to know.
Just write down a list of questions before you call, so you know what to ask.
The advisor told me that the journalism course leader would call me back for a chat.
This was to make sure that the course was right for me.
He called me back within about 30 minutes, so there was no nervous waiting around.
He started out by asking me why I wanted to study journalism and what my goals were.
Once he knew that I wanted to become a presenter, he told me about the course and all the extra opportunities that come with it.
For example, he told me about cJam.
This is an annual event where journalism students get to pitch either a story or themselves to industry professionals.
This can lead to mentorships or even job opportunities.
This made up my mind that it was the right course for me.
It was easy to apply, I just sent over proof of grades and got my confirmation email.
There was so much support throughout the whole process.
My course leader said to call him if I ran into any problems.
I saw it as a good sign that there was so much support, because it showed the university cared about me before I was even officially a student.
Even though I knew that it was the right course, I was still a bit nervous.
I had never been to UCLan before, so I had no idea what the campus or city were like.
Luckily, I did have a friend who had been to an Open Day.
She reassured me that the campus was great and all really close together.
Clearing 2024 students will get a chance to attend a special Clearing Open Day in August.
And if you can’t attend in person, you can take a virtual tour online .
I didn’t know about this before I came, but it would’ve really helped!
I decided to live in private accommodation in my first-year, because this suited my needs.
I was worried that this would mean that I missed out on all the Freshers partying where everyone makes friends.
However, I really didn’t have anything to worry about.
One of my friends was also coming to UCLan and lived in university halls, so I made friends with her flatmates.
I also found it easy to make friends on my course.
Journalism involves a lot of groupwork, so we all got to know each other really quickly.
Plus, there were lots of other Freshers events around campus where you could try new things and meet new people.
If you do want to live in university accommodation, UCLan guarantee a place in halls for all first-years.
That means you don't have to worry about not being able to find accommodation, even if you have applied through Clearing.
I’ve had so many amazing opportunities through UCLan, I honestly wouldn’t change a thing.
My lecturers are constantly sending out internships and work experience opportunities.
This is how I got my role as a student ambassador and content creator for the university.
This has given me valuable experience in front of the camera, which will help me to pursue a career as a presenter.
My advice to anyone going through Clearing is don’t panic.
I know it’s not nice to change your plans, but just do your research and be open to universities you hadn’t considered before.
It could turn out even better than you expected - it did for me.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/clearing/kayleigh:
I had to apply through Clearing to return to university.
I'm sharing my story to show that Clearing isn't a bad thing and can help you get on the right path.
I got straight As in my A Levels back in 2008.
I had applied for a few photography courses, but none of them felt quite right.
I had applied to photography at UCLan as well, which is how I discovered I could study photography with fashion promotion.
This felt more like me – a bit of photography, as well as creative and strategic thinking.
I decided to apply for photography and fashion promotion through Clearing.
I just called up Clearing and was given an offer.
I remember it all being pretty easy and straightforward.
At the end of my first year, I decided to switch degrees to study fashion promotion on its own.
I really enjoyed the branding aspect of the course and that it covered all kinds of lifestyle brands, not just fashion.
I spoke to the course leader and was allowed to switch course.
My second year didn’t go quite as planned.
I was working on an assignment in the library when I lost my USB stick.
It had a full module of work on it.
I got in touch with my lecturer and asked if I could get an extension.
When they said no, I dropped out of university in a panic.
After I had dropped out, I went straight into industry.
I have recently worked as a sub-editor at a magazine.
Even though I was doing well in my career, part of me wished I had finished my degree.
This was because I couldn’t get my dream role in branding without a degree.
This drove my decision to go back to university.
I was also diagnosed with ADHD and PMDD whilst I was working.
This explained why I had struggled with university.
My diagnosis supported my application to get my Student Finance reinstated, as I could show that it affected my studies.
Once I knew that I could get funding, I contacted the course leader to see whether I could come back.
She was very understanding and said yes, but that I would have to apply through Clearing.
This is because I was applying later in the year, so had missed the application deadline.
The Clearing process was really easy again.
I did it all via email this time.
I had to fill out a slightly different application form, because I was returning to university and didn’t have a UCAS account.
I declared my ADHD, as this was part of the reason I was able to return.
I emailed my application form to the Clearing team and was accepted.
I was able to restart my second year in September.
The main thing I have noticed since coming back to UCLan is how much support there is now.
I was juggling work, family life and studying when I first started.
I could not have done it all without the support from the university.
I would also encourage anyone who is neurodivergent to declare it to the university.
I know it can be scary, but it opens up so many avenues of support for you.
This can include learning aids or more flexibility with deadlines, depending on your needs.
I have even spoken to one of my lecturers who also has ADHD.
These kind of open discussions have really helped me.
My main piece of advice to anyone going through Clearing is don’t see it as a negative thing.
I got three As in my A Levels and still went through Clearing – twice!
People can use it to change university, switch course, apply late, or return to university like I did.
Even if you haven’t got the grades you wanted, Clearing can put you on the right path instead of studying something that’s not right for you.
Take the time to think about what you really want to do.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/clearing/olivia:
I thought Clearing was just for people who didn't get their grades, but you can still use it even if you haven't applied for university.
University didn't feel like the right path for me.
I just couldn't imagine myself there.
I had decided to work for a year after getting my A Levels, because I didn’t have much real-world experience.
That's also why I decided to apply for an apprenticeship instead of university.
As September got closer, something was telling me that this wasn’t right.
It felt like too much too soon.
Maybe it was because I didn’t want to commit to a specific career path, or maybe I just wasn’t ready to start work life.
Either way, I needed a change of plans.
I did consider going travelling for a year, but I knew that I needed an education to support my career goals.
I decided to apply for university instead.
I started researching how to apply to university late and came across Clearing.
I had heard of Clearing before, but I thought this was just for people who didn’t get their grades.
However, I found out that you can use Clearing even if you haven’t applied to any universities.
That’s exactly what I did.
I already knew about the University of Central Lancashire, because my brother had studied a Degree Apprenticeship here.
I also knew that I wanted to study Business and Marketing , because this would support my future career goals.
I had my uni and I had my course; now I just needed to apply.
It was already the end of August, so I was afraid it was too late to apply.
I called up Clearing and was put through to an advisor.
They asked me what course I wanted to study and what my grades were.
When they heard my grades, they gave me an offer straight away.
I couldn’t believe how easy it was.
Once I’d emailed over proof of my grades, I got an official offer.
The advisor I spoke to was really helpful.
When I explained that I didn’t have a UCAS account, they said that this wasn’t a problem.
They just sent me a slightly different form to fill out.
I think it’s important to remember that even though it’s your first time applying through Clearing, the advisor has done this all before.
That means they’ve probably heard all your questions and know how to help you.
I also had to apply for Student Finance.
UCLan provided me with some guidance and information about this, because this was something I was worried about.
It was just like a normal application.
My parents had to fill in some forms about their income.
I still received my payment at the same time as everyone else.
I decided to commute to university because I had to look after my horses at home.
I was worried that I wouldn’t make friends because I wasn’t living in halls.
I thought I would miss out on all the social aspect of university, like Freshers and parties.
I didn’t have anything to worry about.
Business and Marketing is a really hands-on course, so I made friends in the first couple of days.
I have been around to their accommodation and gone on nights out with their flatmates, so I have still been able to experience that side of uni culture.
I have grown so much in my first year.
I have had so many amazing opportunities and experiences that I wouldn’t have had if I went straight into work.
For example, there’s a study abroad option so I could live in America, Australia or Europe for a year.
That means I still get to go travelling (kind of), while learning!
I couldn’t do this with a job.
Ultimately, my decision to come to university was about getting an education.
Business and Marketing has been a great course.
All of my lecturers are really supportive.
If I have a question about an assignment or something we’ve covered in class, all I have to do is ask.
There’s also an option for a year-long work placement, so I can still get the work experience I need.
My main piece of advice to anyone going through Clearing is don’t worry.
I have learnt that a last minute change of plans isn't a bad thing, because I've had unforgettable experiences and made friends for life.
You’ll end up where you need to be.
And remember, while it’s your first time going through Clearing, the advisors have done it all before.
It’s a lot easier than you think.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/alumni-spotlight/abbie-tutt:
University of Central Lancashire Neuroscience graduate, Abbie Tutt, has excelled in her field and is now a Foundation Year 2 (F2) Doctor, working for the NHS.
Since Abbie read a teenage neuroscience book when she was 13, her love for neuroscience grew.
Abbie wanted to find out more about what makes our brains work and how things can go wrong.
From a young age, she knew that one day she wanted to treat those with brain injuries.
Abbie gained a place on the School of Psychology course through the Clearing process.
"I was a beaten down 18 year old coming from failed A levels.
UCLan saw the potential in me." Abbie said.
Furthermore, she was particularly fond of UCLan because she liked the idea of the University being a mix of campus and city centre living.
Abbie was also keen to use the brain imaging facility at the University.
Looking back, Abbie made the most of her time at University, actively taking part in campus life and activities.
She was a Student Ambassador as well as a member of the drama society.
She also helped out with science outreach, working in the Young Scientist Centre and at the Lancashire Science Festival.
Abbie is still close to her friends who she met at UCLan and during lockdown they held a pub quiz in honour of their favourite Preston pub.
Speaking about her course, Abbie said: “One memorable experience was getting to shadow a neurosurgeon for two weeks in the second year of my degree in which I saw a human brain for the very first time.
That moment has stayed with me throughout as I hope to pursue this career.
I only managed to secure this as I was studying Neuroscience so I was incredibly grateful to be studying at UCLan at that point.”
" I truly believe I would not be where I am today without UCLan.
If I hadn’t been offered that space , I probably would still be as lost as I was at 18.
I’ll always be grateful for that.
"
Following graduation, Abbie was delighted to get a place at a prestigious medical school to study a four-year course in graduate entry Medicine.
Since completing her studies, Abbie has worked as a Junior Doctor for the past two years in Leicester.
She's done gastro, AMU, psychiatry, renal transplant, emergency medicine, care of the elderly, and cardiothoracic surgery.
She applied to become an emergency medicine doctor but was left disheartened when she didn't get the position.
However, when one door closes, another one opens, as Abbie then received an offer on a training position in Brighton.
"I am incredibly excited and grateful for this chance, especially excited as Brighton has a major trauma centre so I’ll be able to get involved in the management of brain injuries, which was one of my early passions.
I'm also hoping to dual specialise in paediatric A&E!" Abbie said.
When asked if she has any advice for students going through the Clearing process, Abbie said: “Clearing is just a different path but it’s the one you were meant to follow.
I’ll always believe that things always have a way of working out if you’re determined enough and have enough opportunities, which UCLan has an abundance of!
"Take every opportunity that comes your way and if none come your way, go and find them.
Try and seek out opportunities that will help you with what you want to do in life.”

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/alumni-spotlight/jasmin-evans:
Although Jasmin did not achieve the grades she’d hoped for in her A-Levels, she says it was the “best thing that could’ve happened” as it led her to UCLan
Jasmin Evans started her journey at the University of Central Lancashire through clearing as a Foundation Year student due to not achieving the grades she had been hoping for in her A-Levels.
In hindsight, this was one of the greatest things that happened to Jasmin, as it led to a year of working on building confidence in her abilities before approaching the more complex and challenging years of BSc (Hons) Physics .
Jasmin loved her time at UCLan and admits her experience and learning helped kickstart her passion for mathematics and practical laboratory work.
She mentions her course modules allowed her to “explore different streams within the physics degree” which helped her get a real sense of what she liked and was good at.
This ultimately led her to then be confident enough to apply for an engineering position towards the end of her studies.
Soon after graduating, Jasmin began working as a Graduate Systems Engineer at Lockheed Martin UK, where she completed rotations in various parts of the business which aided her in gaining experience and becoming familiar with working in the engineering industry.
Her duties involved supporting a fleet of eleven Warrior Development vehicles through reliability growth trials, qualification and test activities, and managing instrumentation both on-vehicle and across military ranges.
This is where Jasmin first experienced working with armoured fighting vehicles.
" The analytical skills you acquire throughout the course will set you in good stead for further development and allow you to look at problems in a unique way.
I am incredibly proud to have graduated from UCLan.
The Warrior Capability and Sustainment Program (WCSP) came to an end in 2021, where Jasmin took some time out of the land domain to work in Maritime Defence before taking on her current role at Rheinmetall BAE Systems Land (RBSL) as an Instrumentation Engineer.
Her responsibilities include data gathering during live firing trials and working on the Challenger 3 (CR3) project, a project which involves instrumenting the UK’s next generation Main Battle Tank prototype fleet to collect the necessary evidence to prove it is safe and suitable for service with the British Army.
Jasmin is grateful for the knowledge she gained from her course.
“Instrumentation combines a lot of physics knowledge with engineering principles to understand the requirements of a task, and to ensure the equipment selected for the trial is suitable to provide the most accurate data.” Jasmin said.
A proud moment in her career was supporting the first uncrewed Main Battle Tank firing activities in Germany, something which included her “pressing the ‘fire’ button”.
She also won the ‘Lockheed Martin Excellence’ award for achievements and commitment to the Warrior Capability Sustainment Program (WCSP).
Jasmin will always be indebted to UCLan for where she is today, her Foundation Year experience becoming a lesson which has stayed with her throughout her career, “Build the foundation and with determination and commitment the rest will follow.” Jasmin said.
If she had any advice for prospective Physics students, it’d be to “Try everything and don’t be confined by the title of your degree, physics gives you a fantastic foundation that you can put to work in any field you choose.”

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/news/inspirational-blackpool-mum-battles-her-way-to-first-class-degree:
Caitlin Tattersall overcomes death of son to graduate
A young mum-of-two from Blackpool overcame a personal tragedy to gain a first-class honours degree from the University of Central Lancashire (UCLan).
Caitlin Tattersall, 28, battled through her degree in social work with support from family and UCLan tutors after her five-year-old son, Kaden, lost his fight against systemic onset arthritis in November 2016.
After two years of investigations, Kaden was finally diagnosed but medics failed to pick up on his life-threatening condition until seven weeks before he passed away - instead sending him home with pain relief.
Gaining As and Bs in her A Levels at The Blackpool Sixth Form College, Caitlin began to study sport and exercise science at Loughborough University.
But following the death of her mother, Caitlin decided not to return as she was struggling to come to terms with what had happened.
Instead she chose to pursue her dream of becoming a social worker , embarking upon a course at UCLan.
Caitlin explains: “As a single mum-of-two, I wanted to set an example for my children to show them that no matter what age you are, education is important for your future.
"I’ve lived on council estates in Bolton and Blackpool throughout my life, which has made me aware of the stigma attached to this, but I believe that with hard work and dedication you can achieve anything which is why I chose to return to education at the age of 25."
She added: “My first year at UCLan was tough as I applied through Clearing and didn’t get a place at the Preston Campus.
Luckily, I was offered a space at UCLan’s Burnley Campus when I expressed how determined I was to start the course immediately.
“There was a lot of travelling on public transport, but I had set my heart on a degree in social work so that I could make a difference and I didn’t want to give up on my dream – this was my second chance.”
In Caitlin’s second year, things became easier as she undertook a placement at the Fylde Coast Women’s Aid which is located close to Blackpool.
However, it was at this point Kaden’s condition flared up and hospital appointments became a regular occurrence.
Caitlin added: “When we finally had a referral appointment at Alder Hey Hospital in Liverpool, Kaden was very weak, but he was determined to get better.
“Within days of Kaden receiving treatment, he seemed to be on the road to recovery – he even walked down the corridor which was a first in months of crippling pain leading up to this stage.
It wasn’t long after that when Kaden sadly died of sepsis as a result of his arthritis.”
Heartbroken, Caitlin knew she couldn’t give up on her dream of being a social worker and in the January, following Kaden’s death, she continued to study at UCLan and undertook the remainder of her work placement outside of class time to make up for the hours she had lost.
She said: “I used January 2017 as a turning point and a fresh start to get back on track; nothing will ever help me get over what happened to Kaden, but I had to be positive for my daughter - Kaden’s sister, Taylor - who was so brave throughout.
“I’d like to thank my family, UCLan and the Fylde Coast Women’s Aid who gave me the support I needed to get through an extremely difficult time in my life.
I hope to go on and make a difference to those who need it the most.”
Looking forward, Caitlin is hoping to undertake the Assessed and Supported Year in Employment which will mean she will no longer be ‘newly qualified’ and will also gain postgraduate credits, in addition to securing a role as a social worker.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/alumni-spotlight/dominic-ellis:
Since graduating from the University of Central Lancashire with a degree in Mathematics, Dominic Ellis has gone on to establish a career for himself in the engineering sector.
It was no surprise to Dominic that he would find himself working in engineering.
When reflecting on the role mathematics has played in his life, he said: “Since I was very young, I was always talented in Mathematics.
As I grew older, this gift grew until Mathematics was my strongest A-Level subject.
This continued through to picking my university options, where I decided Mathematics was the course for me.”
But the path to where Dominic finds himself today wasn’t without its hurdles.
He said: “After I received my A-Level results, I was originally quite disappointed as I had underperformed”.
Not to be deterred, Dominic applied to the University through Clearing , and was accepted on to the BSc (Hons) Mathematics course, a decision that would serve as his motivation to succeed.
Dominic said: “I never forgot the trust UCLan put in me, and I was determined to repay that trust”.
Dominic recalled many happy memories of his time here, noting that the people, both staff and students, helped make the experience such a positive one.
He said: “From all the memories, I believe the ones that are most prominent are those of the people at the University.
Especially in my mind is the time with my fellow students, as well as the support and classes the lecturers gave us.”
" I never forgot the trust UCLan put in me, and I was determined to repay that trust.
Dominic now works as a Systems Applications Engineer at Finnish technology company, Valmet.
His role involves working on the distributed control system, and maintaining a variety of sites to ensure the automation systems run in a healthy manner.
He has also achieved Chartered Engineering status, a professional qualification well respected in the sector.
While this, alongside working on international projects in Vietnam, Brazil and Argentina, may seem a long way from his hometown of St Helens, Dominic cites his northern routes as being a key influence.
He said: “I’m originally from St Helens, where glassworks and engineering were the main employer.
My dad worked in the industry his entire career.
Together these points really moulded the way I looked at my future career”.
Looking back on his journey, Dominic provided these words of advice: “If you haven’t completed a task before or have the potential to try a new activity, go for it with open arms as it may prove useful in your future career.”

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/support/achieve:
Achieve+ is your companion for university success.
This support package will give you everything you need to excel academically, socially, and professionally.
Starting university is an exciting time.
We're here to support you and want to make sure you have everything you need to prepare for university study.
Achieve+ is a support package of services and resources to help you succeed during your time here.
We know starting university can bring big changes and the transition can sometimes be difficult.
That’s why when you start you will receive:
Start your university journey with a customised achievement plan tailored to you.
Before you start, you’ll take a few surveys to identify your starting point and highlight where you can develop.
This plan will grow with you, guiding you to improve your academic expertise, digital skills, and career readiness.
You’ll get a personal tutor who will meet with you on your own, in group sessions, or at drop-ins throughout your studies.
They will listen to you and help you reflect on your academic experiences, skills, progress, and ambitions.
Your tutor can offer advice on course and module choices.
They can also direct you to services that support your wellbeing, physical health, and financial advice.
Booking sessions with your tutor is easy through our online system.
This ensures regular and convenient catch-ups.
Adjusting to university life will be easy with the help of our student mentors.
The student mentors are usually in their second or third year.
They support first-year students with academic revision, subject-specific study skills, and personal development.
You'll get valuable insights into academic work and study techniques.
You'll also get to learn about general university life from an experienced student’s perspective.
Maximise your academic success with the help of our subject librarians.
They will help you to find relevant information to help your assignments and revision.
This includes books, reports, and papers, to support your assignments and revision.
They subject librarians will also help you use RefWorks to manage and create reference lists, saving you time when it matters most.
Find out more about our library services and facilities :
We're ranked among the top three universities in the UK for mental health support (HUMEN, 2022).
This means your wellbeing is our priority.
We offer a range of support services and self-help tools to enhance your wellbeing and academic success.
Services include:
Explore our mental health and wellbeing support.
From your first day, you can start shaping your career path with our expert Careers Team .
We’ll help you with career planning and goal setting.
You can learn how to best present your skills to potential employers.
You'll also explore the opportunities that suit you best and learn how to secure those crucial interviews.
Learn more about our careers and employment support.
As you settle in, you’ll receive regular newsletters.
These will be full of advice, insights, and tips to help you be confident in your first year of studies.
Think of us as a tiny support group in your pocket, always ready to help.
You don't need to apply for Achieve+.
You will get the link to access the programme during your welcome sessions
Achieve+ is for foundation year (Year 0) and first year (Year 1) undergraduate students.
So it's available to you if you're studying either your foundation year or the first year of your undergraduate degree.
Before you join university, there are a few things you need to do.
Read through our welcome and arrival information and make sure you have everything covered before you join us.
Throughout the year, there are several achievement weeks.
Each week will have a series of skills development, support and extracurricular activities.
Past events have included sports tasters and society sessions.
As well as this, they had dissertation drop-ins and a variety of workshops in the library.
Our friendly Careers Team can help with a wide range of things.
This includes securing part-time work, CV and cover letter creation editing and support.
You can also take part in online and in-person practice interviews.
Handshake is a free online platform for jobs, networking, careers fairs and advice.
You'll be able to create a personalised career profile.
This will allow you to find and contact businesses that you're interested in joining.
We know you'll be eager to see what's happening when.
You can view the academic calendar on our website.
When you study at university, you'll get support from both academic and support staff to help you achieve your goals.
​You'll work with a lot of different people.
It’s important to understand the professional expectations and boundaries.​
Our interactive self-guided session on what to expect at university will help.
It gives you information about the support available, and explains the role of different staff.
Studying at degree level is about being part of a learning community.
Our session on what makes university study unique can help.
It introduces the different methods of teaching, learning and career opportunities.
This includes teaching and learning methods​, assessment, feedback and professional career development.
When you begin your studies there will many digital tools and platforms that you will use.
You may have used some of these before or they might be completely new to you.
Either way, you will have lots of support to learn how to use these different tools.
If you want to get a head start, our digital skills session gives an introduction and overview of some of the platforms you are likely to use.
Independent study and managing your time well are important parts of university life.
Our time management session explores different strategies for effective time management.
It can help you understand the importance of balancing work and home life, and will help you self-reflect.
Everyone is different.
To get the most out of your university experience, it will help to find study techniques that are right for you.
Our self-reflection session allows you to reflect on different communication and learning styles.
It will help you focus on your personal values.
If you have a disability, long-term health condition, mental health condition and a specific learning difficulty it is really important you make the Inclusive Support team aware as soon as possible.
This is so support and reasonable adjustments are in place as soon as you start your new course.
For further details, please take a look at the inclusive support pages .
You will experience lots of new and exciting things when you join us.
Alongside study, socialising and the excitement of university life, it’s important to look after your wellbeing.
Gratitude can increase positive wellbeing, which means it can help people feel happier.
Gratitude is about feeling thankful.
But it's also about having a deep appreciation for someone or something that produces a long-lasting effect.
The activity below can help you to focus on things that have been good in the last week.
This will help build your positive wellbeing.
These can be small things to significant events.
You could do this once a week, or even every day, depending on what works best for you.
Mindfulness is about being present in the moment, and not holding any judgment of yourself or your thoughts.
We can spend almost half of our time thinking about something other than what we’re doing.
Often this thought-drifting can make us feel unhappy.
With some practice, this activity can help you to take a step back from your thoughts.
It helps to not get lost in overthinking.
You can do it anywhere whilst doing almost anything.
This activity is easy to remember as it uses the five senses.
You could do it at home, or when you're walking between lectures.
You could also do it if you're struggling to focus throughout a seminar, or whenever you find that you're overthinking.
You can practise the five senses, at the start of a lecture to help focus.
Take time to go over these five steps and take a one to two minute pause between each bullet point:
Mindfulness can take a lot of practice.
But once you get to grips with how it can help you to become more present, it can be another great tool to add to your wellbeing toolbox.
We can often get trapped in negative cycles of stress and negative thought patterns.
It can be vital to highlight positive aspects of our day-to-day lives.
Highlighting what you do well and what helps you to stay well can impact your mental wellbeing.
This will in turn improve your university experience.
This task helps to highlight these areas.
It can identify what aspects of your lives help to build a shield against stress and ruminations of negative thoughts.
Create your own shield using four squares, reflect on the different sections.
Sleep difficulties are commonplace, especially at university.
Taking notice of your sleeping routine or bad habits you may have fallen into overtime is a useful practice.
All people should do this if they are struggling to sleep.
Poor sleep can have a large impact on our wellbeing, as it can impact concentration, mood, motivation and memory.
There are small changes you can make to your sleep routine that may help you to sleep better.
If you're struggling with sleep you should make a few subtle changes, rather than trying to do everything all at once.
Have a read through the ideas and choose what will work best for you.
Remember that any change takes time, practice and patience, but give any one of the above tips ago.
The Sleep Charity website offer further resources and information.
If you are struggling to cope please contact the Student Support Team .
Stress is a normal part of life, especially at university.
You may experience challenges around to work-life balance and academic pressures.
You could also face financial stress or other external factors.
Stress can sometimes become overwhelming due to not having healthy coping mechanisms.
This can lead to either poor mental wellbeing or the development of unhealthy coping mechanisms.
This task will look at some healthy and unhealthy coping mechanisms.
.This will help you see what strategies you may be putting in place that are working, and what you might need to change.
Got any questions about starting university?
Our team is here to help you.
Email the Student Support Team or call us on +44 (0)1772 891828 .

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/undergraduate/ucas-extra:
UCAS Extra is now closed for 2025.
UCAS Extra lets you add an extra sixth choice to your UCAS application before Clearing.
The free service is available for everyone who has currently used all five choices on their application, and has offers for none of them.
This gives you another chance to get a place at a university even if they weren't initially part of your application.
In 2025, UCAS Extra opened Wednesday 26 February 2025 and closed Friday 4 July 2025.
When applying for universities through UCAS, you have a maximum of five options available to apply to.
These are known as your choices.
If you have used all five of your choices, and currently don't hold an offer with any of them, then UCAS Extra will become available to you.
The "Add extra choice" button will show up on your application portal on the UCAS website.
UCAS Extra allows you to have a sixth choice.
This gives you an extra opportunity to apply to a university or course that you didn't already apply for.
You can only apply to one extra choice at a time.
If you receive an offer, but want to add another choice, you'll have to decline that offer first.
You can withdraw your extra choice at any time before an offer is made, if you have changed your mind.
If you decline the offer, or don't get a decision with 21 days, you can add another choice.
You can do this as many times as you want, but universities have to make their decisions by Thursday 17 July 2025 .
You can use UCAS Extra if you have used all five of your application choices and don't hold an offer with any of them.
Not holding any offers can mean any or all of the following:
If you think you meet these criteria, it's easy to check if you can use UCAS Extra.
You can log in to your UCAS application hub , and you should see the option to add an extra choice.
Not everyone uses all five choices in their initial application.
If you haven't, then UCAS Extra will not apply to you.
You can add an extra choice to your application when you have used all five of your choices and hold offers with none of them.
To use the UCAS Extra service, log in to your UCAS application hub and use the "Add Extra Choice" button.
The deadline for doing this was Friday 4 July 2025 .
UCAS Extra allows you to add an extra sixth choice to your UCAS application.
This had to be done before Friday 4 July 2025 .
Your sixth choice is subject to the same terms as your other five.
This means offers can be unconditional, conditional or may not be made to you.
You are free to withdraw your sixth choice, or decline any offers made under it.
Clearing is a different opportunity to find the right university or course for you.
If you didn't secure an offer before Monday 30 June 2025 , then clearing is the next step in getting a place at university.
You can find out more on our clearing page .
UCAS Extra has proved to be successful for people who want to secure a place at a university before clearing.
It gives you the opportunity to have an extra choice in your application.
This is perfect for if you have changed your mind about your application, or only found a course or university you really like after applying for your initial five choices.
Your extra choice can be used as many times as you want, however you can only have one outstanding application at a time.
This means that if you apply for one university or course with your extra choice, you have to either wait for a decision, or withdraw that choice.
You can decline an offer or decision from a university for your extra choice and then apply to somewhere else if you like.
Yes, you can.
You will either have to withdraw your current extra choice if you're still awaiting a decision, or decline an offer if one has been made.
Once you have done this, you are free to re-apply elsewhere or for a different course using your extra choice.
There is no limit, however you can only have one extra choice applied for at a time.
If you want to apply for more courses or university, you will have to free up your extra choice and apply again.
UCAS Extra was only available until Friday 4 July 2025.
Now that the deadline for 2025 has passed, you will use clearing to secure a place on a course at a university.
You can find out more on our Clearing page .

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/undergraduate/how-to-apply:
We know it's a big decision to apply to university.
From choosing your course to submitting your application, we're here to help you every step of the way.
If you have a clear career goal or passion, you might know exactly what you want to study.
If not, start by thinking about what subjects you enjoy and where your strengths lie.
Need help deciding?
We've got some guidance on how to choose a degree and understanding university entry requirements .
Talk to friends and family, as well as your teachers or careers advisers.
Ultimately the choice is down to you.
If you're applying for a full-time course, you can apply through UCAS .
The equal consideration deadline for most courses is in January, but you can still apply as normal through UCAS until the 30 June.
Applications made after this will be entered into Clearing .
Applying for a part-time course?
You'll need to apply directly through our online application system .
Entry requirements will vary depending on the undergraduate degree you choose.
You can find them on our course pages and on UCAS .
For some courses you'll need a specific subjects or grades, so it's important to double-check before applying.
Most courses ask for:
Studying T Levels?
We accept T Levels based on UCAS tariff points , alongside any course-specific requirements.
Whether you're applying for a full-time or part-time undergraduate course, you'll need to write a personal statement.
Many courses are competitive, so showing your enthusiasm about the course you've applied for is important.
Need help getting started?
Read our top tips and advice on writing your personal statement .
Personal statements are changing.
This will affect students applying to start university in September 2026 and beyond.
Find out more about personal statement changes .
A reference is a written recommendation from someone who knows your academic background.
It's usually a teacher or a tutor.
Your school, college or UCAS-registered centre will guide you through this.
Find out more on UCAS .
You'll be able to upload your reference as part of the online application .
If you're having any difficulty getting a reference, please contact our Admissions Team.
You'll need to apply through UCAS .
You can apply any time form early September for the following year.
Visit UCAS , click on 'apply' and register for your account.
Our institution code is C30.
If you have any issues with UCAS, please contact the Admissions Team by email .
If you’re applying for a part-time course, you can apply directly to us via our online application portal .
If you're applying through UCAS there are a few important dates to remember.
These may vary depending on your course and when you apply.
UCAS opens and you can start your application for university entry the following September.
Take your time and ask for help from your school or college.
You need a good personal statement to make your application stand out.
This month is the UCAS application deadline for places on some of our specialist programmes.
This includes Medicine and Surgery (MBBS) , Veterinary Medicine (BVMS) and Dental Surgery (BDS) programmes if you're a UK student.
You can check the application deadline for your chosen course on UCAS, but it's usually mid-October.
We will start sending out offers.
For some courses you may need to attend an interview or audition .
You may also be invited to attend an Offer Holder Day to get a taste for your course.
The UCAS application deadline for equal consideration is usually in January for courses starting later in the year.
This means all applications received before this date have to be considered by the university.
Applications received after the January deadline will still be considered by us for most courses.
If you have not already applied though UCAS you can still make an application.
Any applications received after 30 June will automatically go into Clearing .
UCAS Extra opens at the beginning of February.
You can use Extra if you applied before the January deadline and used all five choices on your application.
If you're not holding any offers, then you can add extra choices to your application - free of charge.
Once you accept an offer from us as a firm choice (unconditional firm or conditional firm) you can apply for student accommodation .
Once you've received decisions from all your university choices, UCAS will set a deadline for you to reply to any offers.
This is usually in mid May if you applied by the January UCAS deadline.
If you apply late or receive decisions later in the cycle, your reply deadline will be different.
Make sure you respond by the deadline, or your offers will be automatically be declined.
Any applications received after 30 June will go into Clearing .
Visit the UCAS website for further information.
Exam results are released and the Clearing period starts .
If you have a conditional offer from us, we will be waiting to find out your grades before your place is confirmed.
Call us on +44(0)1772 892400 if your results are not quite what you expected, and we’ll be happy to discuss your options.
We take into account additional information about your background that might have impacted your education.
If you're eligible, you could be accepted on a reduced entry tariff.
We're looking forward to welcoming you at UCLan.
With your application submitted you might be wondering what comes next.
We have a step by step guide to help you through the process.
From applications to accommodation, help your child take the next step as a university student with our comprehensive parents and carers guide to university.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/study/writing-your-personal-statement:
We've put together some top tips and advice to help you write your personal statement.
You'll need to write a personal statement as part of the UCAS application process.
This is your chance to show admissions tutors why you should be accepted onto this course.
UCAS have introduced a new style of personal statement.
It's still a total of 4,000 characters, but split into three questions:
These questions help to give your personal statement structure and focus.
Take a look at our personal statement guide to help you answer these questions.
This question allows you to show your interest in the course.
This is important because universities want to know that you are committed to your degree.
They don't want students to drop out.
You should explain what motivates you to study this course.
Is it an interest from childhood, an inspiring person or does it align with your career goals?
Keep it authentic and stick to your real motivation.
You should also show what you have done to explore your interest in the subject.
You might have picked it at A Levels, read lots of books or joined a local club.
How has this made you sure that it's the right course for you?
Finally, you should show how this course connects with your career or personal goals.
If you don't have a specific career in mind, don't worry.
You can discuss the transferable skills you'll gain from the course and how this helps you keep your options open.
This is your chance to show that you have the academic ability to study this degree.
You should focus on your knowledge, as well as key skills and achievements.
Start by discussing what you have studied.
Demonstrate your knowledge of the subject, including key theories and debates.
Are there any topics you really enjoyed and that you want to explore more?
You should also show that you have the skills to study at university.
Read the course description to identify the skills you will need.
This could include critical thinking, communication and teamwork skills.
Don’t just list these skills - provide evidence of them and show how this would help you on the course.
Don’t forget to include other academic achievements as well.
This could include an Extended Project Qualification, tutoring, and being a prefect or part of an academic team.
These demonstrate skills like independent study or leadership.
Show who you are outside education and demonstrate how this can help on your degree.
This could include work, sports, hobbies, volunteering and personal experiences.
This might connect directly with your course.
For example, if you want to study history and you have volunteered at a museum.
If it doesn’t directly relate to your course, you should focus on transferrable skills instead.
If you play a sport, you might discuss how this has developed your communication and teamwork skills.
You should share any further reading you’ve done around your subject, including your opinion on it.
This doesn’t just have to be books, it could include podcasts and events as well.
You may also want to share how your personal experiences relate to your course.
For example, caring for a family member may have inspired you to become a nurse , doctor or social worker .
Alternatively, the challenge of balancing your A Levels with caring may have given you the time-management skills you need to study a degree.
Discover how to write a great personal statement with our handy guide.
It covers everything you need to know from structuring to tips on what to include.
Completing and submitting your UCAS application
You will need to start your UCAS application around September in the year before you want to apply to university.
For example, if you want to start in September 2026, start your application in September 2025.
You can start your application as early as May, but you won't be able to submit until September.
You'll need to submit your form to college so they can add your reference.
Make sure you submit your UCAS application online by the deadline.
Deadlines vary each year, but it's normally around the end of January.
Medicine, Dentistry and Veterinary Medicine usually have a deadline of October.
Once you submit your application through UCAS, they will send you an acknowledgement.
They will then forward your application to your chosen institutions.
Getting a decision on your application
Once you've submitted your application, you may have several stages before you find out if you have an offer.
Institutions will look at a number of things to make their decision.
This includes your personal statement, reference and predicted grades.
You might be invited to interview or audition to see if you're right for the course.
This is also your chance to see if it's the right place for you.
If you submitted your application by the January deadline, you should receive all of your offers by March.
Some courses and late applications may not receive responses until later in the cycle.
You can receive a conditional or unconditional offer, depending on whether you already have your grades or not.
Some universities might invite you to an offer holder or applicant day .
This is a great opportunity to get a taste for your course and meet your tutors.
Usually, you'll need to reply to any offers you have received by May.
This depends on when you submit your UCAS application.
If you have conditional offers, you'll be able to choose one university as your firm choice, and one as insurance .
If you've used all five choices on your application, and you're not holding any offers, then you can add extra choices to your application - free of charge.
Wait for your results and prepare to enrol
If you're waiting for your results, you should receive these in either July or August.
This depends on what qualification you have taken.
Your offer will either be confirmed or rejected based on your results.
If you don't receive the results you expected, or you apply after July, you will be entered into UCAS Clearing .
This helps match you to university places that haven't yet been filled.
Once you've confirmed your offer at your chosen university, you will receive information about how to enrol .
A personal statement is a short written account used to support your university application.
It is your opportunity to ‘sell’ yourself to universities.
And to show how and why you are a good candidate for your chosen course.
A well-written application may convince a university to make you an offer or invite you to an interview.
It’s never too early to start work on your personal statement.
We recommend starting as soon as possible to give yourself enough time.
Before you begin it’s important to know the course or subject area you want to study.
Your personal statement needs to show why you’d be a good choice for this course.
Check the course description, so you can find out the skills that you’ll need.
You can then reflect on how these relate to your own abilities.
Personal statements have been split into three questions.
This can help give your statement focus and structure.
The three questions are:
The great thing about a personal statement is that it’s exactly that - personal.
This is your chance to stand out from the crowd and explain why you’re the right choice for your chosen course.
It’s important that the statement reflects you, so you need to write in your own individual style.
However, there are certain facts admissions tutors will be expecting to see.
Make sure that you answer each question and keep your focus on what it's asking you.
Everything that you write should be relevant and linked to the course(s) you are applying for.
Whilst you will only submit one personal statement it will be seen multiple times by all the universities and courses you have applied for.
Your personal statement needs to stay within the 4000 character limit set by UCAS.
This includes spaces and blank lines.
This might seem like a lot, but it's only around 1 side of typed A4 paper.
So you need to keep it clear and concise.
Use the UCAS personal statement tool to help you keep within the limit as well as tips on how to structure your statement.
Your nursing personal statement is a key part of your application.
This is your chance to showcase your enthusiasm and commitment to becoming a nurse.
It should include:
1) Your reasons for applying and your understanding of the role
Tell us why you want to become a nurse.
What has inspired you to become a nurse?
How does nursing align with your personality, character and interests?
What do you hope to achieve as a nurse, not only for yourself but for the people you will care for and wider society?
You must describe how you have came to this decision.
This could include shadowing nurses or healthcare professionals, learning from personal experiences or other experiences of being a patient.
It's important to show you understand the role of nursing in your personal statement.
The Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) and NHS Health Careers will help you understand the role.
You should also show that you possess the characteristics, skills and values to be a successful nurse.
You should demonstrate that you understand NHS values .
Make sure you include examples of your own experiences that demonstrate these values.
2) What do you know about the NHS?
As you will be undertaking significant training within the NHS, you need to have a basic understanding of the service.
You can find lots of information about the NHS by searching online.
3) Relevant skills and experience
Don't worry if your experiences are not health related as many skills are transferable to the nursing role.
Show how your skills, experiences, hobbies and achievements relate to nursing.
This could be through leadership, responsibility, or problem-solving.
A career in nursing can be rewarding, but it can also be challenging at times.
We are interested in how you manage your time, stay organised and balance responsibilities while still making time for activities you enjoy.
This could include involvement in community groups, sports, music or other extracurricular activities.
Focus on how they have affected you rather than simply listing achievements.
4) Written quality
Your personal statement will be assessed for spelling, grammar and clarity, so make sure you write well.
Avoid unnecessary abbreviations or excessive details, as they won’t improve your score.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/undergraduate/what-degree-should-i-do:
Not sure what degree to study?
Check out our guide on how to choose a university course.
It's important to choose a subject that you enjoy, because you'll be studying it for the next three (or more) years.
Here are some things to consider when you're thinking about what to study at university:
You should also consider whether you have studied the right A Levels to get onto the course.
Most university courses require you to have studied the subject, or something very similar, at A Level.
Some university courses are more strict than others.
For example, many science courses require you to have studied at least two science subjects and maths at A Level.
Make sure you check this for every course and university.
Now that you have decided what to study at university, you may have noticed that there are a few different types of degree available.
Here's a summary of the most common types and what they mean:
This is the most common type of degree.
Bachelor's degrees are normally completed over three or four years of study.
There are different kinds of bachelor's degree depending on the course you study, including Bachelor of Arts (BA Hons), Bachelor of Science (BSc) and so on.
Degree Apprenticeships are becoming more popular.
During a Degree Apprenticeship, you will work for an organisation and study at university at the same time.
This can be demanding, but gives you a wealth of industry experience before you have even graduated.
Your tuition fees will be paid by your employer and the government.
A foundation degree is basically a shorter degree.
It is the equivalent of two-thirds of a bachelor's degree and is completed in two years instead of three (full-time).
It can give you the fundamental skills in a subject, whilst leaving the door open to further study at a later date.
It is distinguished as a foundation degree on the certificate.
For example, a Foundation in Arts (FdA).
This is different to a foundation year degree, which is a longer version of a degree for people who don't meet the initial course entry requirements.
A degree with an integrated foundation year are for people who want to study at university, but may not have the academic achievements to be accepted.
A course with a foundation year therefore includes an extra year of study at the start of your degree to equip you with the basic skills necessary for study.
This is different to a foundation degree, which is a shorter version of a degree.
Still not sure about different types of degree?
Find out more on what is an undergraduate degree .
Chris tells us about studying a Degree Apprenticeship alongside being a Managing Director
Once you have decided what to study at university and the type of degree, it's time to look at different universities.
The most important thing to do when choosing a university is to check your course.
Look at the modules you will be studying and see whether these align with your interests and career goals.
Remember, even if two courses have the same name, they could cover very different things.
Modules are typically influenced by the academics' research interests.
When you choose what to study at university, you should also consider how you would like to study.
Would you like to attend face-to-face lectures or would you prefer to study online at home?
Both have their own merits.
You should also consider whether you would like to study abroad or complete a year in industry.
Then, you should see whether the university offers this for your course.
Many students choose to study abroad to experience a new culture and different ways of thinking.
During this year, you will still study your chosen subject from an international perspective, with a new approach to learning.
This can enhance your skills and broaden your horizons for your degree and beyond.
A year in industry is also popular with students.
Companies offer placements to students which are beneficial for both parties.
The student gets training and skills, and the company gets an employee with fresh ideas.
This normally takes place in your 2nd or 3rd year of study.
Gabi's chemistry placement experience
Of course, choosing a university isn't all about the academia.
You could be living and studying at university for the next three or more years, so you want to make sure it's right for you.
Here's some lifestyle factors to consider:
Most universities encourage first-year students to live at university halls.
That's why you should consider the accommodation at the university.
Think about your budget and take a look at the accommodation online.
Most universities offer single or shared rooms.
Most rooms have en-suite bathrooms, with some shared bathrooms.
You could also choose to live off-campus in private accommodation.
Consider things like cost and proximity to campus.
Make sure you choose a registered landlord for greater security.
Read more advice about private accommodation .
You should also consider the cost of living in that city.
Think about things like rent, transport, food shopping and nights out.
UCLan is the most affordable university in the UK according to The Times (2023).
Weekly rent is below the national average and we have some of the cheapest pints and takeaways in the country.
Societies are a great way to make friends at university.
They might be based on academic interests, hobbies or a shared cultural background.
Just check out some of the societies we have at UCLan's Student Union.
Going out is a big part of university culture, so it's worth checking what the nightlife is like.
Preston has a great choice of restaurants, bars and clubs .
There's also a lot of choice for people who don't drink.
Preston has a wide range of leisure complexes and Halal spots for foodies.
Just check out our alcohol-free activity recommendations.
Do you like playing sport?
Or do you like to hit the gym?
Take a look at what the university has to offer to meet your needs.
At UCLan, we have a range of sports available, which you can play for fun or competitively.
University can be hard.
That's why it's important to look at the student support on offer.
At UCLan, we welcome students from a diverse range of backgrounds.
That is why our support is so wide-reaching.
We can help with study or careers, as well as cost of living concerns.
We also provide mental health and wellbeing support.
Our team also provide specialist support to students with disabilities , or from an Armed Forces or mature background.
Transport is often overlooked, but you will need to travel to and from university at least a couple of times a year.
Consider how easy it is to travel to each university.
Some students may like living at the opposite side of the country.
However, if you need to travel home a lot, you may want to pick somewhere a little closer.
It's also important to consider transport to and from campus on a day-to-day basis.
Is accommodation close to the campus, or will you have to get the bus everyday?
Hidden gems, the natural beauty of the great outdoors, vibrant nightlife, and foodie culture.
Whatever you’re looking for, it’s all waiting for you here in Preston.
Share your Preston adventures and discover new places to enjoy.
This is our Preston.
This is your Preston.
This is #MyPreston
The best way to really get a feel for a university is to attend an Open Day .
Discover more about your subject as you speak to course leaders and fellow students.
Attend a campus tour to learn more about the facilities available.
You might even be able to see some of the accommodation too.
Open Days are normally the deciding factor for students.
A feeling you get once you step on campus.
That is why we definitely recommend attending a few Open Days before you choose a university.
Can't get to an Open Day?
Don't worry.
Lots of universities now offer virtual tours, so you can still see what it's like on-campus.
UCLan have our own virtual experience for students who can't make it to us.
You can take a campus tour, look at accommodation and even explore Preston.
Once you have decided what to study at university, it's time to start applying.
You can apply for up to five different universities through UCAS.
We recommend picking universities with a range of entry requirements.
UCLan offer a range of services to help you through the application process.
Find out more below.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/subjects/sports-coaching-and-leadership:
Strong leadership drives success in sports.
With evidence-based knowledge and practical experience, we’ll equip you to make an impact, from grassroots to elite levels.
Gain the skills to excel in coaching, performance analysis, or management, helping teams succeed and communities thrive.
We offer diverse programmes to inspire the next generation of sports leaders, coaches, innovators, and educators.
You’ll gain practical skills and apply them in real-world sport, education, and health environments.
Many courses include placements, giving you direct industry experience, with opportunities to work or study abroad through partners in the US, Europe, and China.
With your new skills, you’ll be ready to lead, inspire, and succeed in your career.
Many of our graduates have gone on to work with top names in professional sport.
Zuleikha.
Helping sport be more inclusive.
Graduates from our Sport Coaching and Leadership programs have embarked on diverse and successful careers across the sports industry.
Many of our alumni have secured positions with numerous professional football teams, both in the UK and internationally.
Notably, one graduate served as a Performance Analyst for a team at the FIFA World Cup.
However, our graduates' expertise extends beyond professional football; they find opportunities in professional sports, grassroots initiatives, school sports, and outdoor education.
Studying sports coaching could lead to a future career as a:
If you’re interested in becoming a football coach, check out our how to become a football coach guide .

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/discover/arts:
Creativity matters at the University of Central Lancashire.
We're home to a community of creative minds.
We provide an exhilarating environment for artists, designers, fashion designers, performers, screenwriters and more.
This is your door to the creative industries; a chance to gain relevant professional skills, vital work experience and for many, industry accredited or affiliated qualifications.
Where would we be without creativity?
A world without art and entertainment, a place robbed of meaning and emotion.
No personality, no humanity, no colour.
Because creativity, in all its forms, shapes our lives.
It matters.
Hear from Acting Alumni Dylan Hopkins
Our facilities enhance your learning, as you get hands-on with the latest technology.
From 3D printing to fully-equipped design studios.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/subjects/archaeology:
Our Archaeology and Anthropology courses are accredited by the Chartered Institute for Archaeologists (CIfA) and the University Archaeology UK group (UAUK).
You’ll benefit from a sector-leading 10 weeks’ fieldwork experience, helping develop archaeological and transposable skills and knowledge.
You will also have the opportunity to take part in real research excavations across the UK making extremely significant finds.
Archaeology and Anthropology is a unique experience.
We teach and research everywhere from the South African bush to the centre of Preston.
Our state-of-the-art facilities include an archaeological science laboratory with areas for processing finds, a soil flotation unit, dedicated human bone labs, an imaging suite with 3D scanners and a suite of cutting-edge geographical and excavation equipment.
Academic research in Archaeology and Anthropology is thriving.
Over the last few years our small team has produced over 60 academic papers, 15 books and been awarded more than £650,000 in research grants to support our work.
Hear from staff and students about our Archaeology courses
Our Archaeology degree graduates work for a number of different contracting archaeological organisations.
Others are employed in museums or are doing research degrees at a variety of UK universities.
Some have used the transferable skills they gained on their degree to enter graduate level employment in other areas of work.
Careers studying archaeology could lead to:

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/student-life/why-choose-us:
With us you’ll get more than a degree.
You’ll get amazing opportunities to explore who you are, discover your passions, and take your first steps towards your future.
You'll be taught by academics who are experts in their field.
Many are active researchers or industry leaders whose work is making a positive impact on people's lives.
Our academic staff use their expertise and real-world experience to create courses that will prepare you for the workplace.
Our focus on employability means that work experience forms a key part of many of our courses.
Our research staff have collaborated with major international organisations including the United Nations, World Health Organisation and European Space Agency.
Our range of support services will provide you with the help you need throughout your time here.
Our dedicated team are here to help with every aspect of student life.
Whether it's financial concerns, health and wellbeing, disability, student visas - whatever you need help with, we're here for you.
Enjoy everything a big city has to offer for less.
Our highstreets, markets and hidden gems all make for an affordable and exciting way to explore Lancashire's historic towns and cities.
Whether you're enjoying a day out, or experiencing our amazing nightlife, we're sure that you'll have a great time without the expensive price tag.
To help you enjoy your student life alongside rising living costs, we've put together helpful financial support.
We guarantee a room in halls for all new full-time students at our Preston Campus.
All of our accommodation is on-campus, just a short walk to the city centre.
With a wide range of options to choose from, we'll help you find the right place for you.
Enhance your university experience with the option to work, study or volunteer overseas.
We have excellent links with universities across Europe, Asia, America and more.
Explore the culture, meet new people and embrace a new way of learning.
Our graduates step into the workplace with confidence.
Our courses are designed to equip you with the knowledge and skills to get you into your chosen field.
Work experience is a key part many of our courses, and we work closely with leading employers across the North West to secure relevant work experience.
You can also earn while you learn with our growing portfolio of Degree Apprenticeships courses.
Our students come first for us - always.
Our focus on academic excellence and exceptional support allows our you to achieve your goals.
We make sure our graduates are employable.
You'll learn up-to-date industry skills, and find many opportunities to gain valuable real-world work experience.
Our campuses are safe, clean and affordable.
You'll have loads to do outside of your studies, giving you plenty of opportunities to fully explore and experience student life.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/student-voice/kai-barclay:
Kai tells us about his experiences as a mature student at UCLan and how studying a foundation degree has helped to expand his world.
'I came out of college with a BTEC and a very poorly graded history A-level.
I jumped between jobs before I could train up for the army.
Later I was medically discharged from the army and I looked at several universities that offer foundation courses.
UCLan came up and, unlike the other universities, the course was clearly outlined with all the modules available and the course handbook giving all the information I could ask for.
I applied and was lucky enough to gain a place.
The foundation course has allowed me to gain a grasp on academia through constant support and access to 1-2-1 advice whenever I need it.
To go from achieving an E at A-Level to a 2:1 in my first year can only be through the help I've received throughout the foundation year.
The foundation year also covered humanities expanding my knowledge of what's expected of me at university through good teamwork with other students, despite the strains of a global pandemic.
" I'm loving my time at UCLan with fantastic lecturers, great friends, and interesting modules that have helped me to realise what I really want to do with my life.
Finally, the course I'm on actively encourages you to take modules in other subject areas such as politics and in my foundation year I took an active interest in the university's free language classes !
I often say life is what you make of it but UCLan has given me every opportunity to broaden my horizon.
From learning about history across the world to actively gaining a whole new language.
Having gained a new interest in public history I hope to write a book or two after University.
I'd love to work in the heritage industry, hopefully around the northwest, and thanks to UCLan I feel confident that I could do this anywhere.’

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/student-stories/uclan-for-mature-students:
As a mature student, I initially had anxiety about going to university.
I thought I would be the oldest amongst my colleagues - but that wasn't the case, we have a different range of age groups in my class.
UCLan has made my higher education journey smooth sailing.
Here are four things that has made UCLan stand out for me as a mature student:
As a mature student, finances are my top priority.
When I started, I immediately asked about part-time job opportunities and it was quite straightforward.
I booked an appointment with the careers team where they showed me how to find the jobs available.
Within one week, I secured a job.
If you like to budget like me, you will know rent can be a huge expense.
It usually takes more than 50% of your salary.
Living here is the opposite, accommodation is quite affordable.
You could get a room for as low as £400 a month or lower with bills included.
This was a huge relief for me as I could save money whilst studying.
The university is also located in the middle of the city which means it is surrounded by restaurants, retail shops and other places to find work to help with your finances.
Before you begin your academic year, the timetable will be available so you can plan ahead and fit your studies around other commitments.
For postgraduate courses, there are more self-study days in the week which means you might just be required to be in university twice a week.
This also helps you ease into the university world as you have enough time to catch up with lectures.
As a mature student I have a few responsibilities which mean I can't be too far away from my family.
Thankfully, UCLan has convenient transport links to major cities like London, Glasgow, Manchester and Liverpool.
This has made studying here much more convenient for me as if I need to rush home, I know I could easily get there quickly.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/study/foundation-year:
Are you ready to study for a degree but don't have the right qualifications?
We have a wide range of courses with a foundation year available.
A foundation year is an extra year of study at the beginning of your undergraduate degree.
These are for people who don't meet the entry requirements or who are returning to study after a break.
It equips you with the academic skills you need to study at university.
At the University of Central Lancashire, you can study many of our courses with a foundation year.
Most degrees with a foundation year at the start will last four years.
Lots of our courses with a foundation year allow you to progress automatically to Year 1 of your degree – if you pass.
For some courses you will need to apply for Year 1 entry.
This usually includes veterinary or medicine degrees.
A foundation year is the equivalent to a Level 3 qualification , and prepares you for entry onto an honours degree programme.
You can study a foundation year then progress onto a foundation degree.
Foundation degrees are usually a two-year course and cover the key areas of a subject.
A foundation degree is a Level 5 qualification, and the equivalent of two-thirds of a bachelor degree.
You'd need a further top-up year to gain an honours degree.
A foundation year could be your route into a degree.
If you didn't study the right subjects at A Level, or you are returning to study, a foundation year can help you get onto your chosen course.
They are also useful if your qualifications don't meet the current entry requirements for your chosen course.
Many of our courses with a foundation year offer some flexibility within the subject area at the end of the first year.
This gives you more time to decide on your specific subject area.
These range from art and design, to engineering and medical sciences.
Whatever your passion, this could be the route for you to achieve your degree.
Explore our subject areas and discover our courses that offer a foundation year.
There’s lots of financial support to get you started.
You can also apply for a student loan, irrespective of age.
We’ll help you gain study skills and provide support for your wellbeing throughout your course.
As long as you successfully complete the full four years of your course, you will get a bachelor degree.
When you graduate from your four-year integrated degree course, your degree certificate will not mention your foundation year.
Our foundation year students often feature amongst our greatest success stories.
You will receive lots of help with your transition to university life.
We have an award-winning student support service .
This includes financial assistance, tuition in study skills and support for your wellbeing.
By applying for a four-year course with an integrated foundation year, you will have access to student loan funding for the full four years of your course.
There are many routes into returning to education and we have plenty of support available, take a look at our Return to Study webpage to find out more.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/degree-apprenticeships/ams:
Our Apprenticeship Matching Service will help you find a job for your Degree Apprenticeship.
You need to have a relevant job before you apply for a Degree Apprenticeship.
Your employer must also be willing to support you through your Degree Apprenticeship.
That's where our Apprenticeship Matching Service comes in.
We work with hundreds of employers that are looking for apprentices.
Our team will match you with relevant employers.
We'll support you throughout the process, including help with your application and online mock interviews.
Please note, we are unable to recruit to health, care or nursing degree apprenticeships through our Apprenticeship Matching Service.
Please contact your local health providers and local authorities to explore opportunities in these areas.
Sign up to our Apprenticeship Matching Service and leave us your contact details.
We'll email you an application form to find out more about you.
This includes the Degree Apprenticeship course you're interested in.
Don't worry if you haven't got any work experience.
We work with college-leavers all the time and can help you with your application.
Once we have received your application, you will be invited to a 30 minute pre-interview over Microsoft Teams.
The pre-interview is our chance to get to know you and to give further feedback and support on your application.
Please note we cannot approve your application before the pre-interview has been conducted.
Once your application is approved, you will be matched with any suitable vacancies that are relevant to your Degree Apprenticeship course.
We'll let you know when you have been matched with them via email.
The employer will review your application.
If you are shortlisted the employer will be in touch to arrange a formal interview.
Once you've got a relevant job, you can join our Degree Apprenticeship programme.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/degree-apprenticeships/vacancies:
Explore our wide range of Higher and Degree Apprenticeship vacancies.
To meet the basic eligibility criteria you must:
Please note, there might be additional course specific entry requirements.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/degree-apprenticeships/next-steps:
Your employer and course team will agree to the Degree Apprenticeship.
Then, there are a few things we'll need from you.
Your employer will apply for a Degree Apprenticeship.
Once they have applied, there are a few things that you need to do before you can enrol.
We'll email you with the relevant steps at the appropriate time.
You can also email us if you have any questions during the process.
Jump ahead to:
We'll arrange a meeting between you, your employer, the course lead and our business development officer.
This is required under the Education and Skills Funding Agency (ESFA) rules.
This meeting will just make sure that the Degree Apprenticeship meets everyone's needs.
Your employer will register you with our online application portal called Maytas.
Once they have done this, you'll receive an email with a link to an online application form.
You need to complete this form and upload your qualification certificates.
Next, you'll need to verify your identity.
This is an important step, which helps us to comply with regulations and prevent fraud.
This can be completed online.
We'll email it to you via Docusign.
We accept the following types of identification:
We can also accept a birth certificate or National Insurance card via email.
You'll need to complete an initial skills scan as part of your onboarding process.
We'll email this to you at the same time as your identity verification.
The skills scan will assess your current knowledge, skills and behaviour in relation to your job role and chosen Degree Apprenticeship.
Remember, we don't expect you to be an expert because you're on the course to learn.
You will score yourself between 1 and 10 for each outcome:
Please note that if you score yourself too highly, we may determine that you are not suitable for a Degree Apprenticeship.
This is because you are already an expert and the course would not enhance your skills.
The skills scan will be seen by your employer and course leader.
They will approve it, so that you're ready to move onto the next step.
You will complete regular skills scans throughout your Degree Apprenticeship.
This will help to monitor your progress and identify outstanding areas from the degree apprenticeship standards for improvement.
You will have the opportunity to disclose a disability.
This can help us make sure you have the support you need during your Degree Apprenticeship.
We offer a great range of support for disabled students , as well as specific support for apprentices .
You can also complete an Additional Learner Support (ALS) QuickScan.
This is a voluntary assessment which can identify any additional support you might need.
By sharing this information, we can better support you and enhance your learning experience.
Email us to request the QuickScan.
It's especially important to complete this if you have a formal diagnosis of a learning difficulty or have previously received additional support.
It can also help if you suspect you may have a learning difficulty that hasn't been diagnosed.
The BKSB is an online assessment of your English and Maths abilities.
This will help us tailor your learning and identify areas where you might need additional support.
We will provide you with a link to the initial diagnostic assessments.
It will take around 20 minutes to complete each assessment.
Please ensure you complete the assessments on your own, so we can get an idea of your abilities.
Before you start your course, you will need to sign a Training Plan and the Apprentice Agreement via Docusign.
Your employer will also complete a Due Diligence checklist and an Apprenticeship Training Services Agreement.
This is to ensure compliance with the ESFA funding rules.
Admissions will complete their checks to make sure they have everything needed to process your application, such as qualifications.
Please check and respond to any emails as this will help progress your application.
Once you have completed the above steps, you'll be able to enrol on your Degree Apprenticeship .

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/degree-apprenticeships/how-to-apply:
You need a relevant job to apply for a Degree Apprenticeship.
Then, your employer will apply to the course.
A Degree Apprenticeship is different to a normal degree.
This is because you need a relevant job and your employer’s support, as they’ll be the ones applying for a Degree Apprenticeship.
They’ll apply directly through the University instead of UCAS.
If you or your employer have any questions during the application process, you can email our Business Development team .
We'll be able to advise you on the application.
You will need a relevant job to apply for a Degree Apprenticeship.
You must be contracted for 30 hours a week or more.
This is because workplace learning is a big part of a Degree Apprenticeship.
You'll normally spend four days a week in work and one day a week studying.
A relevant job is a role where you can apply the knowledge and skills you learn on your Degree Apprenticeship.
Our Business Development team and course team will work with your employer to ensure your job role is suited to the Degree Apprenticeship.
Some courses may offer more flexibility than others, because it’s a role you will progress on to.
For example, you don’t need to be a manager to study our Chartered Management Degree Apprenticeship .
Health Degree Apprenticeships are more strict.
You generally need to work in a healthcare role.
These Degree Apprenticeships are applied to directly through local health providers.
If you don’t have a relevant job, you can sign up to our free Apprenticeship Matching Service .
We’ll match you with employers who are actively looking for degree apprentices.
This includes employers across the business, construction, engineering, digital and legal industries.
Please note that we are unable to recruit to health, care or nursing degree apprenticeships through our Apprenticeship Matching Service.
Please contact your local health providers and local authorities to discuss opportunities.
Your employer will need to agree to the Degree Apprenticeship, as they will be applying for it.
Need some help getting your employer's support?
Here are some key benefits of a Degree Apprenticeship:
Employers can visit our Degree Apprenticeships for employers page to find out more.
Once you have a relevant job and your employer’s support, they can contact us to apply.
To do this, they can complete our form , email us or call us on (+44) 01772 895500 .
We’ll get in touch with the relevant documentation and talk you and your employer through the application process.
Degree Apprenticeships are government funded, so there are some additional checks we’ll need to undertake.
This includes identity verification, a skills scan and the signing of contracts.
These are all legal requirements before you can enrol on your Degree Apprenticeship.
Don’t worry, our team will be on hand to help you throughout the process.
We’ll email you with instructions at every stage.
Find out more about the next steps in our guide .
Once we have received everything we need from you, you’ll be able to enrol onto your Degree Apprenticeship.
You'll still get all the normal perks of being a student, including a student discount and access to our facilities.
We have a great range of support available to help you make the most of your time at University.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/campuses/training-2000:
In 2017 we joined forces with the Blackburn-based educational charity Training 2000, one of the largest Group Training Associations in the UK.
Training 2000 are specialists in the delivery of apprenticeships and they’ve been working in partnership with industry for more than 50 years.
By welcoming them on board, we’ve strengthened our position as the leading provider of the region’s skills and employment needs.
Their ever-expanding range of apprenticeships are giving organisations the chance to develop highly skilled staff by equipping them with practical skills and the opportunity to progress to a Degree Apprenticeship.
It’s great for employees, because they get to undertake professional development and advance their future career prospects while continuing to work for their company.
And it’s great for organisations too.
Together with Training 2000, we’re working with a huge number of employers who are reaping the benefits of upskilling their workforce.
It enables them to future-proof their business, achieve growth and gain a competitive advantage.
They’re constantly expanding their range of apprenticeships, which currently include courses in engineering, healthcare, management, dental, optical, scaffolding and professional services.
Training 2000 are experts in the provision of apprenticeships, traineeships and commercial training programmes for all ages and professions – from school leavers who are not yet ready to start an apprenticeship, to adults seeking to gain university-level qualifications.
Their courses range from Level 2 Traineeships to Level 5 Higher National Certificate/Diploma with the opportunity to progress to a Degree Apprenticeship with us.
They specialise in business solutions, offering bespoke training packages and apprenticeship programmes which enable individuals to develop their leadership and management skills.
They also enable businesses to up-skill their workforce, get themselves ready for the Fourth Industrial Revolution, and set themselves up for future success.
Tel: 01254 54659 Email: businessdevelopment@t2000.co.uk

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/postgraduate/how-to-apply:
Are you considering studying a master's degree or postgraduate qualification?
We have a range of postgraduate taught programmes to help you take that next step towards your dream career.
Your first step should be finding what course you want to study.
We have a wide range of postgraduate courses available, so be sure to have a look around to find what you want to study.
Most of our postgraduate programmes require a minimum of a lower second class degree from a recognised university.
We also consider professional qualifications that are deemed to be equivalent.
However, in some cases, particularly if you're looking to study a conversion courses, you may require a 2:1.
To find out more about specific entry criteria please see individual postgraduate course pages or contact our friendly Admissions directly:
If you studied your undergraduate degree here at the University of Central Lancashire, you may wish to continue your journey with us.
Why not join the thousands of postgraduate students currently studying with us at our Preston, Burnley, Westlakes and Cyprus campuses?
We are pleased to offer a tuition fee discount on both full and part-time programmes to students with a previous award from the University.
Eligibility applies.
If you’re looking to apply to one of our postgraduate degree programmes and you have previous experience, you may be able to transfer credit to count towards your course.
Examples of prior learning include:
In some circumstances, you may also be able to claim credit even if it’s not related to your main area of study.
Now that you’ve submitted your postgraduate application, you may receive some emails from us over the coming months.
These emails will include information on accommodation, postgraduate student life and how to enrol.
Make sure you check your email account and ensure it's the same email address you supplied on your application form.
Our team may also be in touch to follow up on your postgraduate application and provide any further advice and guidance or securing a place on your chosen programme.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/advice/types-of-postgraduate-study:
Our postgraduate degrees (master’s degrees) offer you the chance to explore a subject at an advanced, in-depth level.
You can expect the course content and assignments to be more complex and demanding than at an undergraduate level.
Most postgraduate students will have completed an undergraduate degree.
For many of our courses, it’s a requirement that you’ve already gained a degree-level qualification in a related field.
Alternatively, you should have significant relevant work experience.
There are two types of master’s degrees:
Read more about these below.
It usually takes one year to complete full-time or two to three years part-time.
When you graduate you'll be awarded a master’s degree, such as a Master of Arts (MA) or a Master of Science (MSc).
There are other types of postgraduate qualifications, including:
For more information on these qualifications check out the rest of this helpful article.
Most postgraduate master’s degrees take one year to complete if you’re studying full-time, or two to three years if you’re studying part-time.
Postgraduate Certificates and Postgraduate Diplomas take a shorter amount of time to complete.
Our integrated master’s degrees (also known as undergraduate master’s degrees) combine three years of undergraduate-level study with one year of postgraduate-level study.
Taking four years in all (full-time) or around six years (if studied part-time).
Some of these courses give you the option of going on a year-long industry placement which adds an extra year to the length of your course.
Most students opt for our postgraduate taught (PGT) degrees.
These are similar in format and delivery to what you’ll have experienced at undergraduate level.
Your studies will likely consist of a mixture of taught sessions, essays and other assignments, independent study, and (for some courses) exams.
Most taught master’s degrees take around one year to complete full-time, or two to three years (or more) if studied part-time or online.
This is much shorter than most undergraduate degrees, which usually take three years to complete full-time.
Towards the end of your course, it’s likely that you’ll complete a dissertation or extended project.
You’ll study a number of modules, including a dissertation at the end, which add up to 180 credits in total.
The taught course modules add up to 120 credits, while the dissertation or final project is worth 60 credits.
Depending on the subject you choose, you’ll graduate with one of the following qualifications (there are others – this isn’t an exhaustive list):
As well as our full master’s degrees, we also offer shorter courses which lead to either a Postgraduate Certificate (PGCert) or a Postgraduate Diploma (PGDip).
A Postgraduate Certificate is a shorter course, equal to one-third of a master’s degree and worth 60 credits.
It shares the same modules as the first third of a full master’s degree and takes around one semester to complete, or up to one year if studied part-time.
Some students opt to study a PGCert from the outset.
Others start out studying for a full master’s degree but opt to leave early and graduate with a PGCert.
Another option is to use a PGCert as a ‘stepping stone’ towards a full master’s degree.
By completing a PGCert first of all then progressing to a PGDip and finally a full master’s degree.
A Postgraduate Diploma is longer than a Postgraduate Certificate but shorter than a master’s degree.
The PGDip, which is worth 120 credits, shares the same content as a master’s degree, except you don't complete a dissertation or an extended project.
It takes around two semesters to complete, or 18 months if studied part-time.
Some students opt to study a PGDip from the outset.
Others start out studying for a full master’s degree but opt to leave early without completing the dissertation element.
They'll graduate with a PGDip instead.
Another option is to use it as a ‘stepping stone’ towards a master’s degree by gaining a PGDip first and then completing the dissertation at a later stage to gain a full master’s degree.
(also known as undergraduate master’s degrees)
Not all our master’s degrees require you to have studied an undergraduate degree beforehand.
Some of our courses offer a combination of undergraduate and postgraduate study, leading to a full master’s degree.
The combined duration of study is equal to the length of a standard undergraduate degree plus that of a master’s degree.
Meaning that an integrated master’s degree will usually take four years to complete, or five if you take up the option of a year in industry.
The first three years are usually the same as the equivalent bachelor’s course.
You’ll then complete a further year of advanced postgraduate-level study to graduate with a full master’s degree.
You can get a student loan for the full duration of your course.
Our integrated master’s degrees include:
Some postgraduate programmes are designed to prepare you for a specific profession.
Conversion courses are ideal for graduates who are looking to transition to a field they haven’t studied before.
They are popular with individuals looking to pursue careers in teaching or law, for instance.
They include:
Most conversion courses take around one year to complete full-time, or longer if studied part-time.
Some of our students choose to study a postgraduate research (PGR) degree.
This offers a very different experience from the life of a postgraduate taught (PGT) student.
Rather than attending regular teaching sessions, completing a programme of modules and assignments.
On a PGR degree, the majority of your time will be spent working on a single in-depth research project.
It’s a substantial commitment that will require you to work independently and collaborate with others.
With a view to making a unique contribution to the body of knowledge in your chosen field.
Research degrees are popular amongst individuals who are aspiring towards a career in academia.
You'll work under the direction of an academic supervisor and receive all the training you need to carry out independent research.
Your research is likely to involve undertaking fieldwork in the UK or overseas.
To be accepted onto a research degree you’ll normally need to submit a research proposal that fits in with the University’s research interests.
At the end of your research degree you'll submit a thesis.
To get your final qualification you may need to attend and pass a viva voce examination.
This involves discussing and defending your thesis, including your research findings and methods, in front of a panel of academic staff.
Our postgraduate research (PGR) degrees at master’s level include:
Depending on which research degree you choose, you’ll be expected to complete your research and submit your thesis within a given timeframe.
A master’s degree by research typically takes around one year to complete full-time, or two to three years part-time.
The most advanced qualifications we offer are our doctorate-level degrees, which include:
A PhD can take three to four years to complete full-time, or around six or seven years if studying part-time.
Find out more about our postgraduate research degrees .

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/visit/chat-to-a-tutor:
Our tutors are on hand to answer any questions you may have.
Book a session and take that next step towards your postgraduate degree.
We understand that choosing to study a postgraduate degree can be a big decision.
Our tutors are available to help you make that choice.
Whilst we aim to ensure a tutor is available on your preferred date and time, you may be offered an alternative date due to academic availability.
Want to visit our campus, explore our facilities and discover our social spaces?
You can book an open event or a campus tour today.
Our range of subjects and study modes can support your goals.
Take your next step with a postgraduate degree.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/support/careers:
Are you starting your career?
Or interested in part-time work to help fund your time at university?
Our Careers Team are here to help you with all things related to jobs, work and careers.
Whether you're a current student or a graduate, you'll have access to lifelong careers support from us.
We have a friendly, professional and experienced Careers Team with expertise in a wide range of areas.
Whatever your future aspirations are, we can help.
Our Careers Service covers:
As a student or alumni, you also have access to services like CareerEDGE and Handshake.
These tools are perfect for both enhancing your career skills and finding work.
With our help, you can find full-time graduate jobs and part-time work to both fund your studies and begin building your career portfolio
Our Careers Team are equipped to support you in any way you need when it comes to the world of work.
Whether you need a quick chat, or more focused guidance and direction for starting a career, we have a number of ways we can help you.
You can book in dedicated time with our careers specialists.
Gain a sense of motivation and direction, develop a plan to build your skills and get work experience.
Start your career planning today to make the most of your time at UCLan.
Our one-to-one appointments cover anything from searching for jobs or courses to helping you with your CV and applications.
Drop in for a quick chat, have your questions answered or find out more about work and starting a career.
Drop-in sessions are for those who just have a quick question about their career, work or simply need a CV/cover letter check.
We have drop-in support available at Preston and Burnley campuses.
Our careers teams recognise all circumstances - and we can adapt accordingly.
We recognise that each one of our students is an individual and there is no universal way that a disability may impact on you and your career.
Whatever your situation we have a team of advisers and resources available to help students and graduates, whether you are just starting your career journey, or in the transition to the world of work.
Discover opportunities to kick-start your career.
Explore your future career options with us.
From career planning to goal setting, we'll help you market your skills to future employers.
We can help out with discovering opportunities that suit you best.
Find work, develop your professional skills and build a career network to last a lifetime.
Discover the latest vacancies and events.
Take that next step towards your chosen career at employer events, careers fairs and webinars year-round.
Build your CV, cover letters and more with our professional resources.
Increase your employability and take advantage of our recruitment resources.
Our resources include CV builder, CV360 online tools and Interview360.
We also host careers sessions on key graduate recruitment topics and industry reports.
Become career ready with our CV, cover letter and personal statement support.
We also offer a mock interview service to help you practice your interview technique.
Whatever you need, our team are on hand to help you every step of the way.
Did you know that graduates from the University of Central Lancashire have access to a lifetime of careers advice ?
Even once you've graduated, you can continue to access our support and services.
Part-time student jobs are a great way to gain experience and earn money.
Find out how you can work alongside your studies.
We offer lots of opportunities beyond the classroom, like learning a new language, studying or working abroad, or joining a student society.
These experiences boost your career prospects while expanding your network and friendships.
You'll enjoy placements and work-based learning opportunities throughout your studies.
This will enhance employability and global awareness.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/alumni-spotlight/olivia-barker:
MSc Psychology Conversion graduate, Olivia Barker-Williams, was fascinated by the subject of psychology during her time at sixth form college and was inspired to complete a BSc Combined Philosophy and Psychology degree.
After graduation, she started to explore ways to specialise in her career and decided that the clinical psychology route was perfect.
This was directly aligned with her love of all things people.
One of the barriers that Olivia faced on her journey towards her dream career was gaining a Graduate Basis for Chartered Membership (GBC) of the British Psychological Society (BPS).
Unfortunately, her undergraduate degree did not cover sufficient psychology content to gain a Graduate Basis Membership.
She was triggered to explore ways to achieve this status by studying at a higher level.
After some research, Olivia discovered that the MSc Psychology Conversion course at the University of Central Lancashire would allow her to overcome this obstacle, something that she would recommend to any graduate who is in a similar situation.
Additionally, Olivia was impressed with the course accreditations, the excellent student feedback and its ability to prepare her for Chartered Membership following further postgraduate training.
Olivia said:
" The fact that the British Psychological Society accredits the course ensured me that I was being taught on a high-quality programme that could open doors and further my career progression within psychology "
Olivia knew that any master's level course would be challenging but she said that she never felt ‘left in the dark’.
She commented: “All my tutors were helpful and genuinely motivated to make students the best they could be”.
In particular, during the dissertation element of the course, Olivia worked with our expert psychology academic, Andy Morley , to perfect her research.
She is now set to be published in CLOK , UCLan's academic journal, in partnership with Andy.
She described this as one of her ‘proudest moments.
As part of her studies, Olivia won the UCLan School of Psychology and Computer Science awards for the best research project.
Olivia also won the academic excellence award for best overall performance in her cohort.
Since graduating, Olivia's career has grown from strength to strength.
She initially gained a temporary job as an Assistant Psychologist with Priory Healthcare but since has successfully acquired a permanent position as an Assistant Psychologist at the Lancashire and South Cumbria NHS Foundation Trust, working within the Specialist Perinatal Community Mental Health Team.
Olivia believes that her successful appointment was heavily influenced by the skills and experiences gained at UCLan and she is now firmly on her career path to becoming a Clinical Psychologist.
Commenting on her time at UCLan, Olivia said:
" Without my MSc I would not be in the job I am today.
It has broadened my opportunities and has been great for my personal development.
To learn more about our MSc Psychology Conversion course or discover more about studying at UCLan , visit our psychology subject page or call us on +44 (0)1772 892400 .

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/alumni-spotlight/jonathan-liew:
After graduating from the University of Central Lancashire with a MSc Oral Surgery, Jonathan Liew has secured a highly sought-after post as a Specialty Registrar in Oral Surgery.
Jonathan Liew decided to study MSc Oral Surgery because he has always had a passion for this subject.
Oral surgery involves the treatment of all age groups and the management of dentally anxious and medically complex patients.
Talking about his postgraduate degree choice, Jonathan said: I came across the MSc in Oral Surgery offered by UCLan.
After reviewing the course contents and structure, I made a decision to enrol on this postgraduate programme to widen my clinical and academic knowledge so I could embark on a career in oral surgery.” He continued: “I definitely made the right decision in opting to study the MSc Oral Surgery at UCLan as it provided me ample opportunities to pursue my ambition of becoming an oral surgeon.
The state-of-the-art clinical facilities within the dental school cultivated an enjoyable, pleasant learning environment for postgraduate dental students.
After graduating in 2019, Jonathan worked as a Specialty Dentist in Oral Surgery at a large dental hospital, a Senior Dental Officer in Oral Surgery at a Community Dental Service, and as a Clinical Teaching Fellow in Oral Surgery at a large dental school, where he teaches undergraduate dental students.
Talking about his numerous roles, Jonathan said: “I thoroughly enjoy achieving different level of job satisfaction from these posts.
I have also been able to expand my clinical and academic competencies based on the strong foundations I acquired through the MSc programme.”
" The fantastic clinical and academic support I received from the wonderful staff at UCLan’s School of Medicine and Dentistry was second to none.
In 2021, Jonathan secured his dream role as a Specialty Registrar (StR) in Oral Surgery.
Reflecting on how his postgraduate experience helped him, Jonathan said: “The tremendous hard work I put in has finally paid off.
The MSc I obtained has definitely helped in terms of boosting my confidence in my daily job.”
In the future, Jonathan would like to pursue further training to become a Consultant in Oral Surgery as part of his long-term career goal.
Reflecting on his lasting memories at UCLan, Jonathan said: “The fantastic clinical and academic support I received from the wonderful staff at UCLan’s School of Medicine and Dentistry was second to none.
The main contribution of the MSc was the confidence it gave me in my daily jobs, allowing me to gain tremendous experience clinically and academically, subsequently making me a well-rounded and competent clinician at the dental hospital as well as community dental service settings.”
When asked about what advice he would give to current or prospective students wanting to do something similar, Jonathan said: “Never give up in doing what you want to do, always chase for it and you will succeed eventually.
The fruit of your own hard work is the sweetest!
Always believe in yourself, work hard for your ambition and you will achieve it when the right time comes.
Do not be defeated by failures.
I can reassure you will see the light at the end of the tunnel.”

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/alumni-spotlight/rona-linklater:
PhD.
graduate, Rona D Linklater, has always had a passion for education.
Upon retiring from her rewarding career teaching music, she didn't feel ready to stop learning so embarked on a research journey to discover how the human brain reacts to sound in relation to memory loss.
After teaching music for 42 years at high school level, it wasn't until after her retirement that Rona became absorbed with how the brain reacts to sound and how it can benefit people with memory loss.
Rona notes that her experiences gave her an insight into "the power music has to motivate, support and change lives", and as such, her PhD journey to discover this segment of Cognitive Psychology began.
Rona has always been an education-focused person, achieving many qualifications throughout her life including a first-class degree in Music and a Master's degree in Education Management.
Rona has shone throughout her career in education, developing and progressing in her numerous roles and inspiring others to love music.
Upon reflection, Rona states that one of the highlights of her career is her time spent as the Assistant Headteacher at Penwortham Girls' Grammar, where she was responsible for managing the Specialist Humanities and Music College status.
Rona has also worked as Head of Music and Head of Faculty for Individual Needs at Trinity College, London, where she taught music and inspired children aged 11 to 18.
During her time as a mature student at the University of Central Lancashire, Rona felt "supported and encouraged" throughout her studies, giving particular credit to her supervisory team who gave her the confidence to challenge herself and succeed.
" Completing the PhD over six to seven years as a mature part-time student was challenging, frustrating, and at times bewildering, yet fascinating and totally absorbing.
The whole experience taught me to be more evaluative and self-critical and deepened my resolve to set targets and work to deadlines.
Having successfully submitted her PhD thesis in 2020, Rona has explored ways to share her research findings with a broader audience and is currently focusing on seeking publication of her research in 2021.
Additionally, Rona was delighted to be given the opportunity to further her already prosperous career by supporting ongoing research at UCLan.
In her current role as a Research Reviewer for the Journal of Cognitive Psychology, Rona reviews online articles for potential publication, evaluating the submitted research's strengths and weaknesses and sends her thoughts to the relevant associate editor.
Rona is part of a team of worldwide reviewers whose comments make up the shared feedback to the original research author(s).
In the future, Rona is looking forward to contributing to further exploration of music-related strategies to support memory, focusing on developing music/sound files for online experiments and reviewing articles in her chosen field.
When asked what advice she would give to graduates wanting to do something similar, Rona said: "As a very mature student, working totally outside my comfort zone and educational background, you never know your level of achievement until you try."

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/study/recognition-of-prior-learning:
As part of your undergraduate or postgraduate degree, you can use your experience to get a head start on your studies using Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL).
Lots of our students come from different backgrounds.
Many have built up a wide range of abilities and transferable skills.
You may have qualifications from a previous institution or experience working in a relevant industry.
If so, you might be able to claim credit on your degree.
This is called Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL).
RPL can come in two forms:
Making a claim for recognition of prior learning is free for certificated study (RPCL).
Claims for experiential study (RPEL) can depend on your student status.
For full-time undergraduate students there is no charge for assessing RPEL claims over and above the standard course tuition fees.
There is a service charge for RPEL claims made by part-time students, payable on submission of the portfolio.
This is a fee of £385 and this is non-refundable.
Students who are awarded advanced entry on to a full-time undergraduate programme will also be charged at £385 for any full year (six modules) awards of RPEL.
Awards of RPEL towards postgraduate degrees are charged a £385 module fee, whether it’s a single, double or triple module.
Postgraduate RPEL does not reduce the total tuition fee charge for the programme or academic year.
Credit will only normally be awarded for learning which has taken place within the five years immediately prior to the start of the course unless you can provide evidence that your learning has continued in a professional or similar context.
In such cases the Course Leader may decide to set an assessment to test your current knowledge.
Credit is an educational currency that measures the amount of learning achieved at a given level.
Roughly 10 hours of student effort equates to one credit.
We have adopted a modular structure and credit accumulation and transfer framework (known as MODCATS) for the delivery of our courses.
A module is a component of a course with its own approved aims, objectives, and assessment methods.
It carries a number of credits at a given level.
A standard module equates to 20 credits, a double module to 40 credits, and a half module to 10 credits.
The normal workload for a full-time undergraduate programme of study, within the standard academic year, is 120 credits.
This corresponds to 36 to 42 hours of study each week, including class content, practical work, fieldwork, private study, etc.
An honours degree requires a total of 360 credits.
Typically, students complete 120 credits at each of three levels (Level 4, Level 5, and Level 6).
Although the overall credit requirement remains the same, some honours degrees may vary the minimum credit required at each level.
Part-time students can complete their programme on a module-by-module basis.
If in doubt, check with your Course Leader for specific credit requirements.
If you are considering claiming credit for prior learning, feel free to email our Admissions Team .
They can help you determine if you are eligible.
Your prior learning must be at a higher education level, which means it should be above A Level qualifications and comparable to the module you are trying to claim.
You need to provide transcripts or certificates.
If the qualification is over five years old, you may also need to demonstrate how you have kept your skills up to date through a statement of currency.
You must show what you have learned by submitting a portfolio of evidence for assessment.
It’s important to note that the credit is awarded based on the learning itself, not just the experience.
Different individuals might learn different things from the same experience, so the focus is on identifying and evidencing the learning.
You can check your qualification on the Register of Regulated Qualifications to find out the level.
Degree level qualifications are from Level 4 and upwards.
If you believe you have certificated learning equivalent to the requirements for relevant modules within your programme, you can complete and submit an application form.
Please include copies of transcripts and certificates as proof of the awards obtained.
Certificated learning can include:
Please note, you cannot claim for training where only attendance was required.
Your application will be reviewed by an academic member of staff, and credit will be awarded for your learning if appropriate, subject to ratification by an Assessment Board.
You can match the learning to:
Elective accreditation applies where the subject matter does not need to correspond with a course or subject offered by the University, but the level and volume of study has been verified by us or another higher education institution.
You cannot claim for part of a module.
You can claim credit by submitting a portfolio of evidence as negotiated with the Course Leader for your chosen programme.
The process involves identifying and providing evidence for learning that matches the requirements of:
You'll work independently but will receive support and guidance from an academic.
Once you have identified the relevant learning, you'll compile evidence of that learning into a portfolio.
This should include a reflective account.
A reflective account of learning focuses on the academic nature of your experiential learning.
This portfolio is assessed against the learning outcomes required for each claimed module, and credit is awarded if appropriate.
The maximum credit you can be awarded is two-thirds of the total credit requirement for your course.
This is whether you are claiming credit for certificated learning, experiential learning, or a combination of both.
These limits apply to both undergraduate and postgraduate courses.
You cannot gain a university qualification through RPL alone.
Both full-time and part-time students can apply for RPL, but full-time students must study at least five modules or 100 credits during an academic year to retain their full-time status.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/study/fees-and-finance/postgraduate-research-funding-opportunities:
You will need to pay all tuition fees, including any bench fee element and/or additional fee for off-campus study for each academic year at the starting point of your research degree and at the start of each subsequent academic year.
Fees payable will depend on your residency classification:
View UK/home research degree programme fees for students.
View EU and international research programme degree fees for students.
A bench fee is an additional fee charged to cover the costs associated with laboratory or research facilities utilized by you during your studies.
It helps fund materials, equipment, travel and sometimes supervision or specific services related to your research projects.
Bench fees are charged for the following:
a.
Laboratory or specialist consumables; b.
Specialist technical support which is not available within the University; c.
Specialist off-site testing of samples or processing of data which cannot be done at the University; d.
Travel to other laboratories or field sites, which is essential to complete the project.
Full-time students who enter a lapse year pay a different rate.
The fee rate depends on your residency classification.
The fee for the year is payable in two halves.
If you submit your thesis in the first half of your final year you will not have to pay fees for the second part of the year.
For more details on fee amounts visit:
UK student fees
International student fees
Once you have submitted your thesis you will not be liable for more tuition fees in subsequent charging periods eg the next academic year, even if the outcome of the examination requires you to revise your thesis further.
You are responsible for the payment of all fees.
You may be able to make an arrangement at enrolment to pay your tuition fees by instalments after an initial payment.
If your fees are to be paid by a sponsoring organisation documentary proof of sponsorship will be required.
You should also be aware that sponsors do not often pay fees for the final year of study and also that if your sponsoring organisation defaults on the payment you will become liable for your fees.
You are advised to explore funding opportunities at an early stage of the application process.
Funding can be found from a number of organisations please see details below:
Most funding is for PhD places.
A list of schemes currently open will be advertised on our website through out the year and via the national press or on websites such as the jobs.ac.uk website .
Appointments are then made following shortlisting and interview.
Please check individual awards for eligibility as current research students are not eligible to apply for our research studentships.
View latest studentships
If you’re thinking about a postgraduate doctoral course, such as a PhD, you could be entitled to up to £27,265 to help with course fees and living costs.
Find out more about this product including eligibility, application and repayment information on the Student Finance England website .
The University offers a number of Research Council studentships each year.
These will be advertised on our website.
These are only open to Home or EU residents.
Eligibility for funding entitlements varies for Home and EU students.
You should consult the website of the relevant Research Council for further details.
It may be worthwhile enquiring at your place of work to see if there is a sponsorship scheme for staff development available to assist you with your studies.
Information about charitable or educational trusts can be found in the following publications:
All of these publications can normally be found in public reference libraries.
It may be possible to obtain a Career Development Loan for certain postgraduate vocational courses.
For further information, visit the Career Development Loans website .
It may also be possible to secure a bank or building society loan to cover costs.
The Department for Education and Skills (DfES) also issues a number of publications.
Lists can be obtained from:
DfES Publications Centre, PO Box 5050, Sherwood Park, Annesley, Nottingham, NG15 0DJ Tel: +44 (0)845 6022260
There is a wide range of information on the web relating to postgraduate funding.
The Prospects website offers useful advice on postgraduate funding opportunities.
The Euraxess - Researchers in Motion website is useful to search for international funding opportunities, including travel to conferences, organising meetings, short research visits, fellowships etc.
Funding schemes for international students are very competitive.
To be successful you normally need to demonstrate outstanding academic achievement.
You should make enquiries about funding opportunities at an early stage, approximately 12-18 months before you intend to commence studying.
As a starting point you should contact the Ministry of Education in your own country.
Your local British Council office may also provide helpful information.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/support/mature-student:
Considering starting university as a mature student?
Everyone has the potential to study at university.
It’s never too late to gain new skills, improve your job prospects or change your career path.
Mature students are defined as any student aged 21 or over at the start of their studies.
For postgraduate study this is anyone over 25 years old.
At the University of Central Lancashire, over 50% of mature students are between the ages of 21 and 24.
40% are over the age of 30.
Mature students might be returning to study after a break from full-time education.
They also might be leaving employment to return to full-time education or be planning to study part-time alongside existing employment.
Mature students are entitled to student finance, just like other students.
You can apply for a tuition fee loan and maintenance loan.
The amount you receive in your maintenance loan will depend on your household income, plus whether you live away or at home.
You may get extra help if you have children.
You also may be able to access other financial support, including our scholarships and bursaries .
Entry requirements are specific to each course.
They usually include either an A Level, Access to Higher Education course, NVQ, BTEC or other work-based qualifications.
In some cases, Maths and English GCSEs are required.
Mature students may not have gained the same traditional qualifications as someone who has been through college, sixth form or an apprenticeship, including A Levels, BTEC and other Level 3 qualifications.
Many courses will also look at experience gained in employment or training.
Courses may consider this experience through Recognition of Prior Learning.
There are multiple routes that will help you return to study.
These include degrees with a foundation year , Recognition of Prior Learning and our free Return to Study entry programmes.
If you want to study a degree full-time, you would apply through UCAS.
To do this, create an account on UCAS Hub (previously UCAS Track).
You'll then be able to upload your personal statement and choose up to five courses.
If you want to study part-time, apply directly through our online application portal .
You’ll follow the same application deadlines as other students.
For full guidance on how to apply for an undergraduate degree, see our how to apply for an undergraduate degree webpage .
If you're applying for a postgraduate degree, see our how to apply for a postgraduate degree webpage .
Part-time study is available for mature students in some course areas.
Part-time study for mature students offers you flexibility, helping you plan your life around your studies
We have free Return to Study entry programmes available across a range of subjects that will help you take the next step towards a full degree.
If you lack the formal qualifications to apply for a related degree, join our free fast-track Return to Study programme .
There's extensive support available for mature students.
We can help you understand entry requirements if you've got different or older qualifications.
There's a number of return to study programmes , which can help you meet the entry requirements for a degree.
We have lots of financial support as well, including scholarships and bursaries .
If it’s been a while since you last wrote an essay or worked on an assignment, don't worry.
We’ll help you make the step up to university study and develop the core skills you need.
If you are thinking about starting a degree after taking time out of education, there are multiple routes into university you can take.
To find out more about the different options available to you, visit our Return to Study webpage.
You may be eligible for student finance, including tuition fee loans and maintenance loans.
You can find out more in our student finance guide .
There is other financial support that may apply to you.
We have a range of scholarships and bursaries.
There are also government incentives, like the Childcare Grant or Parents' Learning Allowances .
There are other ways to save money whilst you study too.
Full-time students are exempt from paying council tax.
Public transport is discounted and many places offer student discounts.
Balancing family commitments with your studies isn’t easy.
But there are ways of making it work for you.
Our Pre-School Centre on our Preston Campus is available for children from six months to four years.
So your young ones can have their own university experience while you study.
We can also support you to access grants available for childcare.
This includes the Parents’ Learning Allowance or Childcare Grant.
If you’re a carer (paid or unpaid) for a dependent, we can provide you with a dedicated staff member.
This will help you to manage your caring responsibilities alongside your studies.
If you've got questions about returning to education, sometimes the best person to speak to is another mature student who has been in the same position you are now.
We can match you up with a fellow student who will get in touch with you on a regular basis.
Email our student mentoring team to get matched with another mature student.
If your digital skills are lacking we can help you get up to speed with the latest technology and software.
We can also provide you with technical support to help you make the most of our library’s many resources.
You may have transferable skills from previous work experience or qualifications.
This means you could be eligible for Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL), where you can receive credit towards your new degree.
Explore our fantastic campuses and discover what life is like here at the University of Central Lancashire.
Student stories give you insight into stories from students who have gone on placements, travelled abroad and achieved many other successes during their time at university.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/support/pre-school:
The Pre-School Centre at the University Central Lancashire is a high quality, nurturing, professionally run nursery.
It is open for staff and students.
We welcome children aged from six months to four years and can accommodate up to 90 children.
The Pre-School Centre is in Preston, Lancashire.
It is in a purpose-built single-storey building with an enclosed outside garden area.
There are separate rooms where children carry out a diverse range of activities in a safe, secure and caring environment.
In Pre-School we play, learn, laugh and grow.
We believe a happy child is a successful one.
Our vision is to develop well rounded, confident and responsible individuals who aspire to achieve their full potential.
We will achieve this by providing a welcoming, happy, nurturing, safe and supportive learning environment in which everyone is equal and all achievements are celebrated.
We are committed to providing a positive, safe and stimulating environment for children to learn, where they feel valued.
We intend that all children should enjoy their learning, achieve their potential and become life-long learners.
We prepare children for their future by enriching them with the knowledge of how to self-regulate, cope with and recognise emotions and build meaningful relationships.
Preparing children for the modern world- equipping them with skills such as resilience, problem solving, to be good communicators.
Characteristics of effective learning underpins this.
Equipping our children with ways to improve or maintain their positive mental health- teaching children to understand and control their emotions.
Our skilled staff team form positive relationships with a fostered approach extending to parents, families and other agencies.
All working together so that every child can reach their full potential and to give them the best possible start in life
We have a child centred approach with independence, confidence and encouragement in letting individuals shine.
Allowing our children to lead the learning both indoors and outdoors
Diversity is celebrated, valued, shared and supported.
Learning from and about each other.
We remove any barriers to learning so that children can succeed
We provide a creative curriculum across the seven areas of learning allowing children to develop a curiosity of learning, discovering interests and talents to enable them to explore the awe and wonder of the world
We prepare children for their next steps our staff have the skills and knowledge to ‘fill any gaps’ in the child’s learning- developing the ‘whole’ child.
Respecting and extending their cultural capital.
We Learn about society through unique community campus experiences
We aim to make the transition between home, Pre-school and School as easy as possible by fully engaging with parents and carers at every stage of their child’s journey.
We are the start of a child's educational journey.
The Pre-School Centre is open from 8.30am till 5.30pm.
Please note funding sessions alter in times, please ask the office for more details.
Term dates for 2024-25
We offer three terms adding up to 38 weeks and a summer term of 9 weeks.
The Pre-School closes for 3 weeks in December.
Sessions and costs for 24/25
As you may be aware, LCC now refer to the existing 15 hour funding as Universal Funding and refer to the new 30 hour funding as Extended Funding; please find details below on how these funding streams may be used at the Pre-School Centre.
In line with both Universal (existing 15 hour funding) and Extended (new 30 hour funding) the Pre-School offers contracts for a 38 week Term-Time contract and a 11 week non Term–Time contract for all age groups from September 2022.
Universal (15 hour) funding, and any agreed Extended (30 hour) funding, can be used in the 38 week term time period only.
Sessions booked during non-term time are payable in full.
Booking Universal 15 hour funding only
The existing 15 hour funding is now referred to by LCC as Universal funding and indicated below are the sessions Parents/Carers can use to use the 15 hour funding.
Please indicate by placing a U in the sessions where you wish to use your universal 15 hours and if you require a paid lunch.
Booking Universal 15-hour funding and additional paid hours
Please indicate with a P (paid) for any other sessions that you wish your child to attend over and above the 15 funded hours, including early and late sessions and if you require to pay and stay over the lunch-time period with a paid lunch.
Parents/Carers using 15 Universal funding can book a maximum of 15 hours in the following sessions 9.00am – 12.00pm and 1.00pm – 4.00pm.
Early and late sessions are not offered for use of universal or extended hours and are paid sessions.
Requesting Extended 30-hour funding
Parents/Carers may be eligible for 30 hour funding (15 Universal plus 15 Extended) and we ask that you use this form to indicate which sessions you would also like consideration to be given to Extended hours by placing an E in sessions for requested use of extended funding.
Parents/ Carers should indicate Extended sessions required as well as Universal hours and any relevant paid sessions.
Please contact Saskia or Lisa should you require clarification on +44 (0) 1772 892597 .
Please ensure all booking forms are returned to the Pre-School in advance of your child taking up the place.
Once your sessions have been confirmed we will issue a Parent Agreement in keeping with LCC requirements.
Fees and payments
Cancellations/termination
Absences
Sickness and medication
Safety and security
Interruption to provision
The Pre-School Centre reserves the right to suspend the provision of childcare in the event of the following:
Complaints
The University has a complaints procedure which you will receive via email along with the Pre-School Centre’s policies or alternatively there is a main copy in the office.
If you have a complaint please speak to the Pre-School Managers at your earliest opportunity to help resolve any complaints/matters which may have arisen.
Tel: +44 (0) 1772 892597
Email the Pre-School Centre
Address: Pre-School Centre, University of Central Lancashire, Leighton St, Preston, PR1 2HE
Alternatively you can email Deana Ireland or call +44 (0) 1772 892312.
You can also contact OFSTED.
Early Years, OFSTED, Royal Exchange Buildings, Manchester, M2 7LA.
Tel: +44 (0) 300 1231231 .
Please view the campus map for details of our location.
Our building is found under the initial 'PSC' in the bottom left hand corner of the map.
Children learn best via first-hand experiences and through using all their senses.
Where better to do this than outside?
Real-world learning opportunities enable deeper levels of involvement.
This helps with retention of information and gives hands-on opportunities for problem-solving.
Children develop their critical thinking.
We provide a beautiful natural outdoor area with endless opportunities for the children.
The provision is available all day whatever the weather.
The children are able to access the garden anytime as we offer a free flow approach where the door is never closed.
The children wear the right gear for the different seasons.
They will put on their own jackets, puddle suits, shoes, or wellington boots in our transition area.
This has a huge learning impact.
The children feel free and breathe the fresh air in.
They can explore all the wonderful outdoor materials.
This includes mud, sticks, leaves, water, grass, plants and many more natural objects.
These support their imaginative play and take steps to enhance their creative flair.
Outdoor inspiration is key to children.
We use lots of different tools to develop and strengthen their muscles for handwriting.
We use brushes, mops, rollers, garden tools, sticks, fabric and more.
Using their outdoor voices is fabulous as they can feel free to sing, shout, play as loud as they like.
We love our huge sandpit which becomes a stage and promotes a flourish of language.
At our Pre-School Centre we have a garden with:
Our outdoor space and learning environment is creative, inspiring and full of nature.
Let’s get learning at home.
Learning never stops at any part of the day.
Please see the Lancashire Country Council website for some brilliant ideas for you to choose and try out at home.
Over our academic year, we share ideas of ways to continue the children’s learning at home and how you can help at home.
We have our very own lending library where your children can borrow a book and have a lovely time reading and looking at the pictures.
We have story jars that are wonderful at supporting them to chat play and read.
There are many great supportive links online that can give ideas and activities that we share within our newsletters.
The children enjoy linking their learning with nursery and home and its such a valuable experience for them.
The children always embrace our ideas and show enthusiasm in having a good go.
We take great pleasure in our parent partnership.
We always welcome pictures being sent in for the children to share their home lives and experiences with their Pre-School Family.
This enhances their communication and language.
It also guides us with our planning to expand their learning further.
Top tips for parents: encouraging effective home learning means making the most of your everyday routine
Walk and Talk
Walk and Talk is a new Lancashire campaign to promote the importance of communication and language for our youngest children.
The campaign aims to encourage families to go outside and communicate with each other.
We'll be sharing information such as:
As the year progresses, we will build up a library of discussion prompts for local places that families can visit.
This includes Williamson's Park, Lancaster or Longton Brickcroft.
Please see our informative display in the atrium for more information and leaflets to pick up.
Laura, one of Pre-School practitioners, is the lead for our setting with the campaign.
Useful websites for parents with simple and fun activities
BBC Tiny Happy People Tiny Happy People can help you develop your child's communication skills.
Explore simple activities and play ideas, and find out about their amazing early development.
Simple, fun, free activities to try at home.
This includes short, effective videos.
Easy Peasy App Easy Peasy is a parent engagement and home learning programme.
It improves language and communication skills for children.
It also helps parents to support their children through the transition to school.
It includes games, simple videos, tips and prompts.
These provide useful information about child development.
Parent Zone We use Parent Zone to share ideas with our parents – ideas for extending our home learning.
Ofsted
We were awarded Outstanding in our most recent Ofsted report (2023).
Read the Ofsted report here .
View our 2017 Ofsted report here.
View our Policies below
Email the Pre-School Centre .

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/support/wellbeing:
University can be an amazing experience but there may be times you need extra help.
This could be with your health, housing, personal life or studies.
We care about your mental health and wellbeing and will support you.
We know that life isn't always easy.
You may experience difficulties with your health, housing, personal life or studies.
You're in good hands - we ranked third in the UK for mental health support in the first ever University Mental Health League Table (2022).
According to the survey results, we came top for the percentage of students who are the most satisfied with the mental health support available to them.
Our team of counsellors provide solution-focused, time-limited therapeutic counselling.
It's of the highest quality to help you with your studies and student life.
They cover a wide range of issues and difficulties.
This includes anxiety, panic attacks, family problems, cultural issues, homesickness, insomnia, loneliness, relationships, suicidal thoughts and more.
Whatever your difficulty, you are welcome and you will be treated with respect.
Our counsellors are registered with the British Association for Counselling and Psychotherapy (BACP) .
Our Mental Health Advisors can work with you if you are struggling with your mental health.
Support is available for a huge range of difficulties.
This includes anxiety, depression, eating disorders, suicidal thoughts and self-harm.
We offer initial appointments, advice and referrals.
We can also signpost to various specialist internal and external services.
All our Mental Health Advisors are professionally trained and experienced practitioners.
They have previously worked in the NHS and are members of the University Mental Health Advisers Network .
Our Wellbeing Advisors provide information, advice, and support for your wellbeing.
This means anything that is negatively affecting you.
We provide assessments, follow-up appointments and signposting.
We can also liaise with both internal and external services including academic departments.
This will help support you in your studies.
Wellbeing Advisors can provide advice in many areas.
This includes alcohol and drug use, safety concerns, stalking and harassment, forced marriage, victims of crime and domestic and sexual violence.
Bullying, harassment, sexual assault and harassment, domestic abuse, hate crime and discrimination are never okay.
We believe that help to tackle issues and help to break through barriers makes all the difference.
Our Report + Support system ensures that students, apprentices, staff and even visitors can report any concerns.
You have the choice to access support from a Wellbeing Advisor or to report anonymously.
We have dedicated Student Wellbeing Ambassadors who are currently studying at UCLan.
They receive specialist training to provide one-to-one support across campus.
They can assist with specific practical support, including getting around campus and using assistive technology.
They are also available to help with note-taking and support in practical sessions.
Practical support Student Wellbeing Ambassadors (SWA) assist with tasks such as carrying belongings, opening doors, and providing support to wheelchair users.
Campus orientation SWAs can help you to find your way around and become familiar with key routes on campus.
Sighted guide They work with students who have a visual impairment to navigate campus and access university facilities.
Library support SWAs can help with the retrieval of books, accessing the library catalogue, printing, and photocopying.
Workshop and lab support They can provide agreed support during practical workshops and lab sessions.
Assistive technology demonstrations The team offer one-to-one training and refresher sessions on assistive software that is available on the network.
For example, Read and Write.
Course trips and placements SWAs can assist on agreed course placements and/or course trips.
Notetaking and scribing After agreement with Inclusive Support, SWAs can take notes in lectures or assist with typing up assignments.
We fully understand and prioritise the importance of good mental health and wellbeing of all our community, students, apprentices and staff alike.
That's why we are proud to be part of the Mental Health Charter programme.
The Charter encourages universities to further develop a ‘whole university approach’ to mental health and wellbeing.
It promotes the idea that support should not just be provided through the more traditional support services routes but can be provided across all areas.
The Charter framework will enable us to understand areas of strength and those for development.
It will help us with ongoing improvements.
It will allow us to fully embed principles of good and excellent practice associated with promoting and supporting mental health and wellbeing into every area of university life.
"We are delighted to be joining the Mental Health Charter programme and look forward to working with Student Minds and Universities across the Sector.
We have heavily invested in support services in recent years and are proud of the impact this has had on the UCLan community.
We are focussed on continuous improvement and are committed to strengthening our whole University approach to mental health and wellbeing.
We believe the Charter provides an excellent framework to evaluate our existing practices, celebrate our achievements and facilitate further cultural change in this area." Graham Baldwin, Vice-Chancellor
For further information, please visit the University Mental Health Charter website .
Our Student Support Services are based in the Student Centre and are open Monday to Thursday, 9am to 5pm and Fridays from 9am to 4pm, excluding bank holidays.
Outside of our opening times, please contact Security on +44 (0) 1772 892068 .
Deaf users please text 07891 679 537.
Our friendly team are ready to support you and can refer you to our specialist teams.
This includes our Counsellors, Mental Health Advisors and specialist Wellbeing Team.
Visit us on the upper ground floor of the Preston Campus Student Centre.
You don’t need an appointment, just drop-in any time between 10am and 4pm, Monday to Friday.
If you're based at our Burnley or Westlakes Campus, we can arrange appointments through Microsoft Teams.
Call or email us to make an appointment.
Our team of counsellors provide therapeutic counselling of the highest quality.
They can cover a wide range of issues and difficulties.
Whatever your difficulties you face, you are welcome, and you will be treated with respect.
Our Mental Health Advisors work with students and apprentices who are struggling with their mental health.
They work with a huge range of difficulties.
This can include anxiety, depression, eating disorders, suicidal thoughts and self-harm.
They offer assessment appointments, advice and signposting to various services.
All of our mental health advisers are professionally trained and experienced practitioners who have previously worked in the NHS and are members of The University Mental Health Advisers Network.
Our Wellbeing Advisors provide information, advice, and support for your wellbeing - which means anything that is negatively affecting you.
We provide assessments, follow-up appointments and signposting, and can liaise with both internal and external services to help support you in your studies, including with academic departments.
Wellbeing advisers can provide advice in many areas, such as alcohol and drug use, safety concerns, stalking and harassment, forced marriage, victims of crime and domestic and sexual violence.
Drop-in to the Student Centre
Once you are a student or apprentice, you can visit us on the upper ground floor of the Preston Campus Student Centre.
You don’t need an appointment, just drop in any time between 10am and 4pm, Monday to Friday.
Our friendly team are ready to support you at the drop-in sessions and can refer you to our specialist teams.
This includes counsellors, Mental Health Advisors and our Wellbeing Team.
Call or email ​​​​​​​
Contact us by emailing the Wellbeing Team .
Alternatively, you can telephone us on +44 (0) 1772 893020 .
Both our email and voicemail are monitored during our office opening hours only.
If we are unable to answer your call, please leave a voicemail and we will get back to you as soon as possible.
Complete an online support request
If you are a current student or apprentice, you can submit an online support request through the Student Support Portal .
Our Student Hub has more information about support you can receive based on your personal needs and circumstances.
Find out more about mental health and wellbeing support on the Student Hub .
We understand that it can be distressing to know that someone you care about is having a difficult time.
As we are a confidential service, we cannot reveal information about students or apprentices using our service.
However, we will always follow up on any concerns raised.
Please encourage the student or apprentice to refer themselves to us or attend one of the wellbeing drop-in sessions.
If you would like further advice, you can ring us on +44 (0) 1772 893020 .
If you have serious concerns about someone in an emergency situation, please call 999.
Please visit our student support frequently asked questions webpage .

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/postgraduate-research/how-to-apply:
We have an established research reputation in a wide range of academic disciplines.
After completing your research degree, you should be in a very strong position for pursuing your chosen career.
If you're ready to start your application for a postgraduate research degree, we hope you find the information below useful.
Before applying you should have reviewed our Research and Knowledge Exchange institutes in depth to make your choice ready for your application.
If you are submitting your own proposal for a research project we suggest that you contact the degree tutor for the area to discuss your topic before applying.
New research students can commence their studies in September, January and March
The deadlines for applications are as follows:
March 2025 Home - 1 December 2024 EU and international - 1 November 2024
September 2025 Home - 1 June 2025 EU and international - 1 May 2025
January 2026
Home - 1 November 2025 EU and International - 1 September 2025
March 2026
Home - 1 December 2025 EU and International - 1 November 2025
September 2026
Home - 1 June 2026 EU and International - 1 May 2026
Applications are accepted throughout the year and you should indicate your preferred start date on the application form.
For studentship applications and deadlines please our Bursaries and Studentships webpage.
International students You need to take in to consideration the time needed in your home country to obtain a visa.
Additional time will be needed if you need ATAS Clearance for your subject.
If you’re an international student who’ll be studying on a Student Route (Tier 4) Visa then you’re required to study full-time.
Applying for an MRes course?
Please note that the deadlines for the MRes course may differ.
Whilst this course comes under the title of a postgraduate research degree, it is not processed by the Research Admissions Team and therefore does not follow our deadlines.
Submitting your application It is important to enclose all requested information so we can make a decision on your application.
This should include:
International students:
Please note, we reserve the right to request sight of original certificates or further information.
Some courses require submission of a research proposal as part of the entry requirements.
Here is some guidance on what a research proposal should include
In report format, prepare a research proposal.
The research proposal should be as focused as possible and be on a topic that both interests you and is connected in some way to your programme of study.Please use the following headings as a framework for your research proposal.
Complete each section in detail, but the overall submission should not exceed 2000 words in length (with references).
This section should include your proposed topic for research with explanation of the subject under investigation, the purpose of the research as well as academic and/or industrial justification of your choice of focus.
You should also clearly state your research question or hypothesis, the overall aim of your research and subsidiary objectives or questions.
Be as specific as you can in this section.
Discuss what model/theory/idea you will draw upon for the project and how this relates to your research question.
In which books or journal articles do these appear?
You can start with a broad focus on the overall theoretical perspective, and then narrow to a more detailed focus on your specific research.
You need to explain the principles of your chosen theory, and how this theory relates to your research aim and objectives.
It is important to examine similar research projects/papers, especially those where the choice of your theory was employed.
Do not simply list or summarise existing literature – you should always link the conclusion of your review to your own research objectives.
In this section, you need to justify the research design that you are likely to adopt, outline the data needed to answer your research question and explain how the information will be gathered.
Try to be as precise as possible about your intended or actual research design.
What is your research design?
Cross-sectional, ethnographic, experimental, case study etc.
What data do you need to collect?
– be as precise as possible.
What method(s) will you use to collect this data?
Why have you chosen these methods?
What sort of questions will you ask?
Provide an outline (i.e.
a draft questionnaire or interview schedule in an appendix) of what you will ask and why.
What sample/selection will you use?
How many?
How will they be chosen?
How will you analyse the data that you collect?
You are required to support your methods with relevant references.
Good time management is crucial to completing any piece of research on schedule.
In this section you need to demonstrate how you plan to progress with this project from start to submission point.
If you have any queries about the research degree application process, please contact the Research Admissions Team .
Our current tuition fees can be viewed on the pages below:
You should ensure that you have sufficient funding for tuition fees, any bench fee and living expenses for the duration of your research degree programme.
You should make enquiries about funding opportunities at an early stage, approximately 12-18 months before you intend to commence studying and secure the funding you need before accepting and taking up your research degree place.
If you are unable to self-fund your studies you may be able to obtain funding elsewhere.
However, funding opportunities for research degrees are very competitive.
There’s lots of financial support on offer:
Studentships
When studentships for postgraduate research degree programmes become available they are advertised on our studentship webpage .
There will be a link to all the forms you need to use.
Studentship places are awarded following the short listing of applications and interviews.
MPhil or PhD
A recognised UK first degree, second class honours or above; or a UK master’s degree or equivalent qualification.
PhD studentships normally require at least an upper second class honours first degree.
MD(Res)
A registrable medical degree awarded by a UK university held for at least three years and:
MA/MSc/LLM (by research)
A recognised UK first degree, second class honours or above or equivalent qualification.
PhD (by published work)
The applicant must hold a bachelor's degree with honours from a UK university (or equivalent) and be a current member of staff of the University and/or a University of Central Lancashire graduate.
If you are a European student entering the UK after 31 December 2020 without settled or pre-settled status, or an Irish citizen living in the UK or Ireland, you will need to apply for a study visa .
If you hold qualifications other than those specified they will be considered on their merits.
You will be required to demonstrate equivalence to the entry requirements either through presentation of a portfolio of work otherwise you may need to take another course prior to applying for research degree.
Where English is not your first language, an English language qualification at IELTS 6.5 overall is required with no individual component below 6.0 or equivalent.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/contact/studying-and-open-day-enquiry:
If you would like more detailed information relating to this or your rights, or who to contact if you have any concerns about the use of your personal data, please go to the privacy policy published on our website.
The University will hold and use the information you have provided to inform you about studying at UCLan.
Your details will be retained until the Autumn of your intended year of study, or for two years if an intended year of study has not been indicated.
Your personal data will not be passed on to any third parties for marketing purposes.
You can tell the University at any time if you no longer want to receive information from us by contacting us .

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/contact:
If you have a query, question, or concern, we're here to help.
You should find the information you need on our webpages using the links below.
If you still can't find what you're looking for, we've also provided contact details where relevant.
We're here to help you through every step of your Clearing journey.
You can find out more on our Clearing webpage .
Please find the relevant contact information you are looking for below.
All of our academic and teaching staff can be found on the academic listing webpage .
If you wish to contact an academic about a course, research or anything else, you can find their contact details on their profile page.
You can find information about how to apply to university on our webpage .
If you want to know the entry requirements for your course, please check the course page.
If you want to enquire about a current application, you can:
You can find out about the courses we offer and apprenticeship vacancies on our website.
You can also find information for employers on how to upskill employees.
If you have any questions, you can:
We are home to students from more than 100 countries worldwide.
If you're an offer holder, you can find all the information you need before you start.
Open Days are a great opportunity to visit campus.
You can attend subject sessions and see the facilities available to you.
We have a dedicated placement team for both student and placement providers.
For any postgraduate course enquiries regarding studying with us or events, you can:
That’s fine, just email it through to our Postgraduate Team and we can add it onto the academic enquiry for you.
After checking your junk folder, please get in touch and we will resend the confirmation email.
This will include the QR code for you to check in with at the event.
If there is an upcoming event, you can register using the event link .
We will send you an email with the details on how to join.
We offer a variety of continuing professional development (CPD) and short courses .
If you would like to find out more about studying an undergraduate course with us, you can:
If you're a current student, please use the Student Hub to get in touch.
Any students struggling to enrol should contact the Student Administration Team.
The contact section on the Student Hub provides all the relevant contact details.
If you're a current student and need IT support, you can submit a request with our LIS Team.
Course timetables are usually finalised in July before the September start.
If you want to know the timetable of your course, please contact your Course Leader directly.
They can also help you consider full and part-time modes of study.
To find out about term dates, view our academic calendar .
Discover our fees and learn how to apply for student finance and financial aid.
Whether you're a home or international student, you can find the fees on your course page.
If you're a parent, carer or guardian, you can find all the information you need in our guide for parents and carers .
In case of emergency, you can:
You can study a range of University of Central Lancashire courses at our international partner institutions.
If you are studying at an international partner institution, you will need to contact them directly.
You can study a range of University of Central Lancashire courses at our partner institutions.
If you are studying at a partner college, you will need to contact your college directly.
Teachers, personal tutors and careers advisors can reach out to our Schools and Colleges Team.
Our schools and colleges webpage contains key points of contact, services we can offer and FAQs.
If you have any other questions, you can:
Our Widening Participation Team often work with primary and secondary schools who want to visit campus.
Please note this is for primary and secondary schools only.
Please see the schools and colleges contact if you're from a college or sixth form.
We have set criteria for the schools we work with.
This includes schools from low participation in higher education areas or areas of high deprivation.
Our widening participation webpage has lots of information about the activities offered, criteria, how to check eligibility and contact details.
We have a wide range of accommodation options at our Preston, Burnley and Westlakes campuses.
You can find information about opening hours, prices and classes on the Sir Tom Finney Sports Centre webpage .
Our sports arena is a multi-sports venue which is available to use.
It caters for a range of outdoor sports like football, rugby, athletics, hockey, tennis, netball, cycling and rounders.
You can find information about our Careers Service on our website .
If you're an organisation and want to contact us with regard to opportunities for students, please get in touch below.
Our student support webpages have a wealth of information.
This includes the support we offer, contact details and links to the student hub for current students in need of support.
The Students' Union is here to represent you, as well as organise exciting social events.
If you would like to know more, you can:
Have you previously studied with us and require a character reference from an academic?
Or are you an employer looking to verify a student's education?
I am a previous student and need to request a character reference
You will need to find the academic you are requesting a reference from.
Please search our academic staff profiles for details.
I am an employer requesting verification of a potential employee
You can use Hedd to verify qualifications.
This is a centralised system that connects employers, agencies, universities, embassies, and councils.
Visit our alumni webpages to find out more about the Alumni Network, update your details or unsubscribe from our newsletters.
To join our Alumni Network or find out more, you can:
You can order replacement transcripts and certificates from our online store .
If you have questions about your original certificate, contact the Awards Office directly.
To contact the Awards Office, you can:
We can assess the needs of your business and help you develop practical, real-world, solutions.
If you're interested in working with us for business and enterprise purposes, you can:
Interested in our research outputs?
Explore our research and knowledge exchange institutes .
Our research pages contain contact information if you want to get in touch about specific research.
We offer a range of postgraduate research courses across different areas.
This will allow you to study your chosen subject in greater depth and produce original research.
You should contact a research tutor for your chosen area before you apply.
They can advise on your application and research proposal.
To find out more:
Normal campus opening times are:
Building opening times can vary.
To find out more, you can:
We provide 24 hour security across our Preston, Burnley and Westlakes campuses, 365 days a year.
If you need to get in touch with campus security, you can:
Our car parks require a University parking permit which you need to apply for as a student or staff member.
Parking is free on weekends.
If you'd like to contact car parking, you can:
Frequently asked questions
How do I apply for car parking as a student?
Only a limited number of students, who meet at least one of a set of criteria, are able to use the campus car parks.
The criteria and application form are on the Student Hub .
You’ll be able to upload supporting evidence while completing the form.
Please note only a limited number of spaces are available and meeting the criteria does not guarantee that an application will be approved.
Permits are allocated on a first come first serve basis.
The cost of a permit is also determined by how many days per week you will be on campus.
You will also need to re-apply at the beginning of each semester.
How can I make a parking booking as a visitor?
If you're visiting a member of staff, please ask them to organise visitor parking for you.
We also have two pay and display car parks, located on Harrington and Victoria 2.
Do you want to know how to post an item, check a delivery or let us know about a large delivery?
To find out any of this, you can:
We are home to world-class facilities.
Some of these facilities are available to hire externally.
The contact details for each facility can be found on the facilities page.
View our upcoming events on our events webpage.
The contact details for each event are available on the individual listing.
Visit our graduation webpage .
This has all the information you need, including dates, arrival information, extra ticket requests and how to let us know if you can't attend.
If you want to find out more, you can email our Graduation Team.
The Lancashire Science Festival is a celebration of all things Science, Technology, Engineering, and Maths (STEM).
Running every other year, the three-day extravaganza aims to inspire the next generation with wonders of STEM.
Explore our fantastic campuses on our student-led campus tours.
Discover what life is like at our Burnley Campus.
Discover what life is like at our Preston Campus.
We have a wide selection of meeting, training and event spaces that are adaptable to suit your requirements.
If you'd like to find out more, you can:
Discover our latest job vacancies and take the next step in your career journey.
Visit our jobs webpage.
You'll also find answers to frequently asked questions about careers, applications and more.
If you'd like more information, you can:
To request an employment reference for a current or previous member of staff, you can email the People Team.
Our libraries provide a range of services to students and the general public.
Visit our library webpage to find out about opening times and services.
If you have a general enquiry, please email our Press Office .
If you have a specific enquiry, contact one of the team:
If you're currently a registered supplier and have a query about an invoice, please contact Accounts Payable.
If you're interested in becoming a registered supplier, contact us and we can direct you to the Procurement Team.
To contact Accounts Payable, you can:
In case of an emergency please call +44(0)1772 896333
Can't find what you're looking for?
Call us on +44 (0)1772 201201
We are dedicated to providing an outstanding experience for everyone.
If you have any concerns, please let us know as your feedback helps us improve.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/advice/types-of-research-degrees:
A PhD is the most common doctoral qualification.
It is the highest postgraduate level qualification offered by universities in the UK.
A PhD gets awarded on the successful completion of a programme of supervised research.
It gets assessed via a thesis and a viva voce (oral examination).
You'll investigate and evaluate an approved topic.
This will result in an independent, significant, and original contribution to knowledge.
And show an understanding of research methods appropriate to your chosen field.
You'll be supported by a programme of research training to enable you to develop transferable skills for your future career path.
For most students, the award of a PhD is achieved via the MPhil route.
You can transfer to PhD taking approximately halfway through the degree.
You can either develop your own research idea or apply for one of our advertised studentships.
Funded opportunities are available throughout the year.
If you have an idea for a PhD project, please contact one of the Research Degrees Tutors listed on our postgraduate research page .
They will discuss your proposal further with you before you submit your application.
The MD (Res) gets awarded on successful completion of a programme of supervised research.
You will investigate and evaluate an approved topic.
This will result in a significant contribution to medical knowledge and/or professional practice.
You will demonstrate an understanding of research methods appropriate to your chosen field.
Throughout your MD (Res) journey, you will get supported with a programme of research training.
It will enable you to develop transferable skills for your future career path.
Applicants for MD (Res) must have held a research or teaching appointment or have been engaged in the practice of medicine or surgery.
You must have been registered with the General Medical Council of the UK for at least three years before entry for the degree.
If you have an idea for an MD (Res) project, please contact one of the Research Degrees Tutors listed on our postgraduate research page .
The MPhil is between a taught or research masters and a PhD.
You'll also prove an understanding of research methods appropriate to your chosen field.
An MPhil is awarded on successful completion of a programme of supervised research.
It is assessed via a thesis and a viva voce (oral examination).
Throughout your MPhil journey, you will be supported by a programme of research training.
This will enable you to develop transferable skills for your future career path.
If you have an idea for an MPhil project, please contact one of the Research Degrees Tutors listed on our postgraduate research page .
The MCh is awarded on completion of a programme of supervised research and gets assessed via a thesis and a viva voce (oral examination).
You'll investigate and evaluate an approved topic resulting in a significant contribution to a particular subject of Surgery.
You will show an understanding of research methods appropriate to your chosen field.
Throughout your MCh journey, you'll be supported by a programme of research training.
Applicants for MCh must have held a research or teaching appointment or have been engaged in the practice of medicine or surgery.
You'll have been registered with the General Medical Council of the UK or equal for at least three years before entry for the degree.
If you have an idea for an MCh project, please contact one of the Research Degrees Tutors listed on our postgraduate research page .
If you're looking to take the first step into research, an MA (by Research) is an ideal award.
You'll undertake an independent project to help you gain qualitative and quantitative research skills.
These skills will be vital when you carry out a long-term project.
If you are aiming to study for a PhD, the MA (by Research) will prepare you for study at PhD level.
It will also enable you to gain subject-specific research skills for professional development purposes.
For MA (by Research), you will demonstrate an understanding of research methods appropriate to your chosen field.
You'll do this by completing an approved programme of supervised research which is assessed via a thesis and a viva voce (oral examination).
If you have an idea for an MA (by Research) project, please contact one of the Research Degrees Tutors listed on our postgraduate research page .
An MSc (by Research) is the perfect qualification to take your first steps into research.
You'll gain qualitative and/or quantitative research skills.
These will be essential when you complete independent research projects.
If you are aiming to study for a PhD, the MSc (by Research) will prepare you for study at PhD level.
You will also gain subject-specific research skills for professional development purposes.
You'll demonstrate an understanding of research methods suitable to your chosen field.
You'll undertake an approved programme of supervised research and it gets assessed via a thesis and a viva voce (oral examination).
If you have an idea for an MSc (by Research) project, please contact one of the Research Degrees Tutors listed on our postgraduate research page .
If you are aiming to study for a PhD, the LLM (by Research) will prepare you for study at PhD level.
You will gain subject-specific research skills for professional development purposes.
An LLM (by Research) is a great introduction to the world of research.
The programme will help you develop both qualitative and quantitative research skills.
You'll undertake an independent project and a long-term project.
For LLM (by Research), you will show an understanding of research methods appropriate to your chosen field.
You will be completing an approved programme of supervised research and it is assessed via a thesis and a viva voce (oral examination).
If you have an idea for an LLM (by Research) project, please contact one of the Research Degrees Tutors listed on our postgraduate research page .
Available to UCLan graduates, current staff at the University or our partner institutions or honorary academics of the University.
The PhD (by Published Work) provides an alternative route to the traditional PhD.
This award is ideal if you are a published researcher but have not obtained a doctoral award.
It allows you to prove via your publications that you've already undertaken doctoral-level research.
As well as showing you have the appropriate research skills for that level.
Applicants for PhD (by Published Work) must:
Your research should result in an independent, significant and original contribution to knowledge.
It should demonstrate an understanding of research methods appropriate to your chosen field.
It is assessed via submission of a synoptic commentary and a defence of the Published Work at viva voce (oral examination).
If you are interested in applying for PhD (by Published Work) please contact one of the Research Degrees Tutors listed on our postgraduate research page .
The MD (by Published Work) is for researchers in a clinical environment.
You will of made a significant contribution to medical knowledge and/or professional practice.
If you have already published but not obtained a doctoral award, the MD (by Published Work) provides an alternative route to the traditional MD.
Applicants for MD (by Published Work) must:
You'll investigate and evaluate diagnosis or management in a clinical environment.
The result should provide a significant contribution to medical knowledge and/or professional practice.
The MD (by Published Work) is assessed via submission of a synoptic commentary and a defence of the Published Work at viva voce (oral examination).
If you are interested in applying for MD (by Published Work) please contact one of the Research Degrees Tutors listed on our postgraduate research page .
PhD by Portfolio is a 48-60 month programme (part-time only).
It's aimed at those who have a wealth of professional and vocational experience to bring to their programme.
This will be evidenced at the application stage.
The PhD thesis, of 80,000 words equivalent, is a portfolio constituted by three ‘linked and distinct’ project areas.
This is capped by a 15,000 word synoptic report.
Two project areas will be retrospective, drawn from your professional/vocational background.
While the third is a ‘live’ research project, conducted under supervision.
A high level of synthesis between the three projects areas is expected, focussing the research on a single title.
The examination is by thesis and verbal defence (viva-voce).
To find out more please contact one of the Research Degrees Tutors listed on our postgraduate research page .
How to apply
You can online through UCLan Admissions.
You'll be required to submit a supplementary Word document as the basis for your application for PhD by Portfolio.
Please email Research Admissions to obtain this document.
There is guidance to help set out your past experiences and propose ideas for active research.
Professional Doctorates are specialist doctorate-level qualifications.
They are available in areas where students have made a significant contribution to enhancing a professional area through the application, development, and testing of theoretical frameworks.
They are designed to enable professionals to study and develop their own practice-based research in a structured and supported environment.
DProfs offer the chance to enhance your professional career to doctorate level by supporting original research that will have an impact on practice, policy, and theory.
For more information about our Professional Doctorate programmes, please visit the course pages:

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/academics/ewa-mazierska:
Ewa was born and educated in Poland.
In 1987, she finished her graduate education at Warsaw University, where she received a master’s degree in philosophy.
In 1995, she received a PhD from Łódź University in film studies.
She was working in Poland as a lecturer in sociology and film journalist.
In 1995, she relocated to Britain but retained close links in Poland, where she publishes regularly.
In 1997, she started working full-time in British academia at UCLan and became a Professor in 2008.
Ewa is the Research Coordinator for REF Unit 33.
Her current projects concern the cinema of Roman Polanski after 'The Pianist' and Polish film music.
Ewa has published widely on various aspects of European and world cinemas from perspectives such as gender, representation of work, everyday life, cities and travel and political and cultural history.
In total, she has published over twenty monographs and edited collections and numerous scholarly articles, published in film journals and those of other disciplines, such as 'Tourist Studies' and 'Science Fiction Studies'.
She is also conducting research on popular music.
Her current projects concern popular electronic music in Poland, from the 1970s to the present and Polish popular music and the moving image.
Her recent books are 'Polish Estrada Music: Organisation, Stars and Representation' (Routledge, 2023),  'Popular Polish Electronic Music, 1970–2020: A Cultural History' (Routledge, 2021), ‘Polish Popular Music on Screen’ (Palgrave, 2020), ‘Popular Viennese Electronic Music, 1990-2015’ (Routledge, 2019), ‘Popular Music in the Post-Digital Age: Politics, Economy, Culture and Technology’ (edited with Les Gillon and Tony Rigg, Bloomsbury, 2019), ‘Contemporary Cinema and Neoliberal Ideology’ (edited with Lars Kristensen, Routledge, 2018), 'From Self-Fulfilment to Survival of the Fittest: Work in European Cinema from the 1960s to the Present' (Berghahn, 2015) and 'Marx at the Movies: Revisiting History, Theory and Practice' (edited with Lars Kristensen, Palgrave Macmillan, 2014).
Her other books include 'Polish Cinema in a Transnational Context' (edited with Michael Goddard, Rochester Press, 2014), 'Work in Cinema: Labor and the Human Condition' (Palgrave Macmillan, 2013), 'Postcolonial Approaches to Eastern European Cinema: Portraying Neighbours On-Screen' (edited with Lars Kristensen and Eva Naripea, I.
B.
Tauris, 2014), 'European Cinema and Intertextuality: History, Memory and Politics' (Palgrave Macmillan, 2011), 'Nabokov's Cinematic Afterlife' (McFarland, 2011), 'Jerzy Skolimowski: The Cinema of a Nonconformist' (Berghahn, 2010), 'Masculinities in Polish, Czech and Slovak Cinema' (Berghahn, 2008), 'Roman Polanski: The Cinema of a Cultural Traveller' (I.B.
Tauris, 2007), with Elżbieta Ostrowska, 'Women in Polish Cinema' (Berghahn, 2006) and with Laura Rascaroli, 'Crossing New Europe: The European Road Movie' (Wallflower Press, 2006), 'Dreams and Diaries: The Cinema of Nanni Moretti' (Wallflower Press, 2004) and 'From Moscow to Madrid: Postmodern Cities, European Cinema' (I.B.
Tauris, 2003).
Her work was translated into almost twenty languages, including French, Italian, Portuguese, Czech, Serbian, Estonian and Korean.
Film serves her as a tool for exploring unknown histories and cultures, therefore she employs versatile methods and approaches, drawing on disciplines such as economy, tourist studies, sociology and history.
She is especially interested in cross-cultural phenomena, such as the work of émigré directors, road cinema, heterotopian films and adaptations of the prose of Vladimir Nabokov.
She co-edited several volumes devoted to the interface between Marxism and film.
She also published a collection of short stories, ‘Neighbours and Tourists’ (Adelaide Books, 2019), which received Grand Prize in Eyelands Book Awards competition and over 50 short stories in various literary magazines.
Ewa is principal editor of the journal 'Studies of Eastern European Cinema', published by Routledge, and on the editorial boards of several journals.
She received grants from the Leverhulme Trust and AHRC, as well as from the Polish Film Institute, Polish History Museum and Noble Foundation.
She has guest lectured in many countries and was invited to numerous film festivals.
In 2010 she curated a retrospective of Jean-Luc Godard’s film at the ENH Festival in Wroclaw, one of the largest retrospectives of Godard cinema ever presented.
Ewa is the school’s research lead, REF UoA 33 coordinator and co-chair of MusicResearch@UCLan and is active within the area of journalism, media theory and practice.
Current research and supervision:
Use the links below to view their profiles:
Telephone: +44 (0) 1772 89 3025
Email: Email: Professor Ewa Mazierska

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/academics/dr-james-ingham:
Jim’s responsibilities include Academic Development and Quality Lead for the School.
He is also a Research Degree Tutor for the School, helping with postgraduate research student admission, progression and examination.
Jim has taught in several areas including Computer Graphics and Audio Production.
His research background is in Sound Geographies.
As Academic Development and Quality Lead, Jim oversees course development, quality of curriculum delivery, course enhancement and review of academic programmes.
He is involved with the management of assessment boards, review of student cases and maintaining the academic quality assurance processes within the School.
As a Research Degree Tutor, Jim co-ordinates the School’s internal quality assurance processes for research degrees.
This includes admissions and interviews, the research programme approvals, transfer to PhDs and the examination of research degrees.
Jim is Course Leader for the Professional Doctorate in the Creative Arts Jim a member of the Faculty Quality and Student Experience Committee.
He is also a member of the University Collaborative Sub-Committee.
Jim has overseen curriculum design within the School for a numbers of years.
He has been involved with several Periodic Course Reviews for the School.
Jim oversaw the development of the Media and Film courses at the Hebei University in Baoding.
He has also been involved with a large number of course developments with partner institutions both here in the UK and internationally.
Jim is the key point of contact for external examiners for the School.
Jim has supervised and is currently supervising several research students in a variety of areas.
Subject areas that he has supervised include "Real-time collaboration in virtual reality based on full-body motion tracking of multiple participants", and "Spatiality and Temporality in Sound and Music: the existential phenomenological qualities of encountering music’s being".
For over twenty years Jim has produced the much acclaimed On the Wire specialist music programme for the BBC.
This includes includes the transmission of the programme from Beijing while the host Steve Barker resided in China.
Jim has research interests in the area of music and geography.
He has been involved with a number of research projects involving motion capture, with particular interest in the use of motion capture for the spatial analysis of body movement.
Telephone: +44 (0)1772 893256
Email: Email: Dr James Ingham

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/academics/dr-rami-salem:
Dr Rami Salem is a Senior Lecturer in in Accounting and Finance.
He has over ten years of excellent teaching and research experience in accounting and finance at higher education institutions, nationally and internationally.
He is an experienced lecturer with a professional background in the banking industry.
He completed his PhD in Accounting and Finance from the University of Central Lancashire, UK.
He achieved his MSc (Hons) in International Accounting from University Utara, Malaysia, and BSc (Hons) in financial accounting from Aljabal Algharbi University, Libya.
Prior to joining higher education, he worked as a risk analyst at the Central Bank of Libya (CBL).
His role was about managing the investments of Libyan foreign reserves.
He held several professional positions at CBL.
After 6 years at CBL, He joined Aljabal Algharbi University in 2011 as a lecturer in Accounting and Finance.
In this role, he developed the undergraduate and postgraduate accounting programme (approved by the Ministry of Higher Education- Libya).
Currently, he holds an academic position as a Senior Lecturer in Accounting and Finance here at UCLan.
He is holding various research and teaching-related administrative positions and is the course leader of the MBA programme.
PhD Supervision: Dr.
Rami has a proven track record of successfully supervising PhD students to the completion of their degrees.
He is currently available to supervise PhD candidates in his areas of interest and expertise listed below.
His continuing research interests are in Corporate Disclosure Quality, Earnings Management, Corporate Governance, Corporate Social responsibility, Audit Quality, Key Audit Matters, Banking and Finance, Islamic banking.
Rami's research contributions have been published in prestigious journals, including Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting, Business, Strategy and the Environment, International Journal of Finance and Economics, Environmental Science & Policy, The Quarterly Review of Economics and Finance, International Journal of Accounting & Information Management, Journal of Applied Accounting Research, among others.
He also holds significant editorial roles, acting as the Associate Editor of Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting and Editor Board Member of Business Economics Journal.
Telephone: +44 (0) 1772 89 4621
Email: Email: Dr Rami Salem

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/academics/dr-dorota-dot-ujma:
Dorota (Dot) is looking after the Tourism, Hospitality and Events Masters courses at the University of Central Lancashire.
Dot's main focus is teaching, particularly in the area of health and wellness Tourism, personal and professional development for Tourism, Hospitality and Events and research methods for Tourism, Hospitality and Events.
Apart from managing the Postgraduate Suite of Tourism, Hospitality and Events courses at the University of Central Lancashire, Dot is also looking after Research Students in her role of the Research Degree tutor.
This role includes advising potential applicants for the research degrees, interviewing them and checking their progress on a research journey.
She is also a Principal Investigator for an international research project, funded by the Polish National Agency for Academic Exchange (NAWA).
Dot previously taught at the University of Bedfordshire and the Krakow University of Economics in Poland.
She completed a Master’s degree in Krakow, specialising in tourism marketing of health resorts and a PhD on tourism distribution channel relationships at the University of Bedfordshire.
In addition, Dorota previously worked with the Centre for Excellence in Teaching and Learning, which opened her eyes to the nebulous nature of employability and complex links between employers and curriculum.
Her research interests touch upon tourism marketing, specifically distribution in tourism and hospitality as well as health and wellness resorts.
She is also interested in pedagogic issues and perspectives in higher education, especially how they are impacted upon by the developing technology.
She is a fan of polling and research software, for example Vevox and Qualtrics.
Processes guiding development of tourism career management skills, for example through work placements and personal development planning, or more general educational research areas including links between assessments and learning / teaching, and the value of feedback to students and members of staff were added to her research agenda as the result of co-operation with UK and international research fellows.
She likes working with colleagues through coaching and mentoring schemes.
The co-operation with the Polish University College of Tourism and Ecology (WSTiE) in Sucha Beskidzka, where she was a visiting lecturer, led to the international project, funded by the Polish National Agency for Academic Exchange (NAWA), titled “Design thinking as a tool of practical support for the development of business and science, based on the international academic partnership: Polish – Italian – English – Hungarian”.
Its aim is to uncover solutions in which entrepreneurial and employability skills are developed in tourism-related courses in four co-operating universities in Poland, UK, Italy and Hungary.
Dot with four other colleagues from the Tourism, Hospitality and Events lead the project-related activities at the University of Central Lancashire.
Following her doctoral research, Dorota published chapters with Professor Dimitrios Buhalis on the role of travel intermediaries in tourism.
She taught a lot and naturally her research interests moved to the area of teaching and learning, especially the development of study skills with a focus on literacy as well as transferable and employability skills.
She was also interested in students’ response to feedback and learning from feedback.
Her interest in pedagogic issues and perspectives in Higher Education led to processes guiding development of tourism career management skills, for example through work placements and personal development planning, or more general educational research areas including links between assessments and learning / teaching.
The value of feedback to students and members of staff were added to her research agenda as the result of co-operation with UK and international research fellows.
She was invited by Professor Wiesław Alejziak to a project to translate eminent tourism research into Polish for ‘Folia Turistica’, an academic journal for tourism research.
She worked with Professor Philip L.
Pearce, translating his publication on the rise of Australian academic tourism research.
She also worked on collaborative research project in the Silesian health resorts in Poland with Professor Andrzej Hadzik and Dr Sean Gammon.
The most challenging publishing experience yet was a chapter on the sociology of tourism in Poland, co-written with Polish Professors Krzysztof Przecławski and Julian Bystrzanowski and created after an invitation from Professor Graham Dann, who co-edited the Tourism Social Science Series on the Sociology of Tourism: European Origins and Developments.
Telephone: +44 (0)1772 895704
Email: Email: Dr Dorota (Dot) Ujma

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/academics/dr-mark-norris:
Mark teaches on the on-campus undergraduate Physics with Astrophysics and Astrophysics degrees, as well as the BSc Astronomy online learning degree.
He also supervises Masters by Research and PhD students studying a range of topics in Astrophysics.
Mark's research focuses on the study of how star clusters and galaxies form and evolve.
He uses some of the worlds most powerful telescopes in an attempt to work out when, where and how the stars found in current galaxies were formed, and how they made it to where we see them today.
In addition, Mark is responsible for the day to day operation of UCLan's Alston Observatory.
He led the commissioning of the 0.7m Moses Holden Telescope, and the design, acquisition, and commissioning of the fully robotic 0.35m Isabella Holden Telescope.
After completing his PhD at the University of Durham in 2008, Mark moved to the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill to complete his first postdoctoral position.
This involved helping to lead a large spectroscopic survey of over 2000 galaxies.
While at UNC Mark won a NASA grant to fund research into how a class of compact stellar system called Ultra Compact Dwarfs were formed.
This work led to the publication of more than a dozen papers and resulted in a consensus that the objects were a composite population of large star clusters as well as some formerly large galaxies which had been destroyed by tidal interactions with a larger galaxy.
After 4 years at UNC, Mark moved to the Max Plank Institute for Astronomy in Heidelberg Germany where he continued his research into how compact stellar systems formed, as well as leading the science planning team for a large instrument project for the Large Binocular Telescope in Arizona.
Mark has wide research interests in the general area of studying how galaxies form and evolve.
His main area of research involves the observational study of compact stellar systems, these enigmatic small stellar systems lie in the transition region between large star clusters (like globular clusters) and true galaxies.
His research has been pivotal at demonstrating that objects in this class comprise two distinct populations, a group of unusually massive star clusters unlike any found in our own galaxy, and a second population which are the remnant nuclei of dwarf galaxies which were tidally destroyed by large companion galaxies.
Understanding this population fully provides many important clues to the nature of the galaxy formation process, not least allowing us to determine just how small a galaxy can be, or alternatively, just how massive a star cluster can grow.
Telephone: 01773 893548
Email: Email: Dr Mark Norris

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/academics/dr-andrew-fsadni:
Andrew is a Senior Lecturer in the School of Engineering and Computing, and is the Course Leader for BEng/MEng and MSc Mechanical Engineering.
He lectures in the field of Mechanical Engineering.
Andrew joined the University of Central Lancashire in 2012 after completing his PhD at Brunel University.
Prior to this, Andrew worked in the automotive and energy industries for 6 years.
Andrew is currently Course Leader for the BEng/MEng and MSc courses in Mechanical Engineering.
He also delivers lectures with a specialisation in Thermo-Fluids Engineering.
Andrew is also a Research Degree Tutor.
He is a Member of IMechE’s Lancashire Area Committee and is also a chair on the IMechE Professional Review Interview Panel.
Andrew is research active with a strong research interest in Thermo-Fluids engineering - more specifically, the investigation of multiphase flows, associated heat transfer coefficients and the use of nanofluids for enhanced heat transfer effects.
His research interests also include the investigation of indoor air quality, ventilation and zero energy buildings.
Andrew graduated as a mechanical engineer from the University of Malta in 2003.
He has also read for an MBA and an MSc, both awarded with distinction, by the Universities of Malta and Brunel (UK) respectively.
His professional career started in 2003 as an automotive component design engineer with Methode Electronics Inc., where he was the lead designer on an innovative product developed for the Ford Motor Company for installation in their 2005/6 S-Max, Mondeo and Galaxy platforms.
In 2006 he moved on to the Malta Enterprise Corporation, where he specialised in energy and building auditing.
He has also worked on a number of freelance projects with a core specialisation in sound, energy, ventilation and lighting audits.
Andrew has also delivered lectures in Malta, Switzerland and Hong Kong and is registered on the European Engineer Register.
More recently, he has been elected as a Fellow of the Higher Education Academy and, as a Chartered Engineer.
Andrew is also a Member of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers.
Andrew is research active with a strong research interest in experimental and computational Thermo-Fluids engineering - more specifically, the investigation of: multiphase flows, associated heat transfer coefficients and the use of nanofluids for enhanced heat transfer regimes.
As part of his PhD work at Brunel University, Andrew worked on an EPSRC Industrial CASE project which was developed in collaboration with Spirotech bv, of the Netherlands.
He successfully defended his PhD in 2012.
As part of this project, Andrew developed a number of mathematical models to predict the characteristics of two-phase flow in wet, sealed heating systems.
This work is instrumental in ensuring the optimisation of heating system efficiencies through a fundamental understanding of the physics of air-water characteristics with pertinent system parameters.
Andrew is actively involved in the Multiphase flow academic and industrial community and regularly reviews publications for esteemed international journals, namely:
Telephone: +44 (0)1772 893812
Email: Email: Dr Andrew Fsadni

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/academics/professor-champika-liyanage:
Champika started her journey with us in 2008 as a lecturer.
She was able to progress through different roles here as a senior lecturer and reader to a Professor in Facilities Management.
This makes her the first female Professor in our School of Engineering and Computing.
She carries out many key roles here and in the School, including Co-Director for the Centre for Energy, Sustainable Development and Resilience.
Champika is the Co-director of UCLan’s Centre for Sustainable Transitions.
She is the Research Degree Tutor within the Civil Engineering and Construction (CCE) side of the School of Engineering and Computing.
As part of this role, she is responsible for recruiting and managing PhD students in CCE.
Champika is also the MSc Dissertation Coordinator within CCE.
She supports, guides and manages MSc students (in UCLan Mauritius) in Project Management and Construction Project Management courses.
Our School of Engineering and Computing was awarded the Athena SWAN Bronze Award in April 2021.
It is only the second department to be awarded this accolade here.
This submission was successfully led by Champika with other members of the Athena SWAN Self-Assessment Team of the school.
The Athena Swan Charter is a framework which is used across the globe to support and transform gender equality within higher education and research.
Furthermore, Champika is a member of the University’s Charter Marks group.
This provides a public opportunity to focus on equality strands, to celebrate successes and stretch our ambitions.
Moreover, she is the Research Excellence Framework (REF) lead for Unit of Assessment (UoA) 13 on Architecture and Built Environment.
Champika is actively involved in a wide array of research relating to sustainability; facilities and infrastructure management; and capacity building in disaster resilience.
She has published over 150 peer-reviewed publications (journal and conferences papers) to-date.
Through sheer hard work and perseverance, she was able to access a range of opportunities and experiences, such as developing a strong international research portfolio.
By securing funding, including from Horizon 2020 and EU ERASMUS+, Champika has been able to carve a research path, developing a range of internal, national and international projects and networks.
Telephone: +44 (0)1772 893221
Email: Email: Professor Champika Liyanage

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/academics/dr-matt-stables:
Dr Matt Stables is a lecturer and Course Leader for BEng/MEng / MSc Energy Engineering.
Having had extensive research experience in science and engineering, Matt’s research interests lie in the fields of Renewable Energy and Low Carbon Technology and Sustainability.
Interest from PhD applicants is welcome
In addition to course leadership and module delivery, Matt is involved with the development of courses on Energy, the Environment and Sustainability as well as programmes involving wider participation of engineering students in Wind Energy technology and design.
After many years in industry, Matt began his academic career in 1999 as a mature student, graduating with BSc Environmental Science from Lancaster University.
Research interests led to a PhD in System Identification and Automated Control, quickly followed by post graduate research posts in varied fields from Particle Accelerator Physics to Marine Energy development.
Dr Stables joined the School at UCLan in 2012 pursuing further interests in Renewable Energy with the post of Project Engineer for a multi-million pound UCLan/ERDF project promoting renewable energy to small and medium sized businesses in the North West UK.
At the same time, Matt completed a Masters degree in Wind Energy Engineering.
Upon completion of the project, Matt was encouraged to take on course leadership duties for undergraduate Energy Engineering courses and became a full time lecturer in energy related modules.
Renewable Energy Technology Assessment, Integration and Development.
Low Carbon Technology Energy Efficiency Assessment
Telephone: +44(0)1772 893581
Email: Email: Dr Matt Stables

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/academics/gavin-sim:
Gavin’s research lies in the fields of Human Computer Interaction and Child Computer Interaction.
He focuses on the design and evaluation of technologies in a wide range of context including gaming, education, and health.
He also uses a wide range of methods including Participatory design, survey tools and technologies including eye tracking to improve end users’ experiences.
Gavin teaches a range of subjects across both the undergraduate and postgraduate curriculum.
Gavin has published widely in the areas of Human Computer Interaction (HCI) and Child Computer Interaction (CCI) with an array of peer reviewed articles to his name.
He is associate editor for several international journals, has worked on UK and EU funded projects and has been an invited speaker nationally and internationally, including the ACM SIGCHI Conference in 2016.
Through this, and related projects, Gavin has built up a network of academic and stakeholder collaborators.
He is supervisor for a number of PhD students in HCI and CCI and if you might be interested in carrying out a Ph.D.
under his supervision, please contact Gavin.
Gavin graduated from De Montfort University and worked in industry for several years before undertaking a MSc in Multimedia Computing with us.
He was then appointed as a research assistant here working with the virtual university of Pakistan within the context of e-learning provision.
During this time, he undertook a part-time PhD looking at the usability of computer assisted assessment software.
In 2005, Gavin started as a part-time lecturer in computing with us and has since progressed to a Reader in 2017.
During this time, he has fulfilled many academic roles, including course leader, research degrees tutor, vice chair of the science ethics committee and on the Faculty S&T Research, Knowledge Exchange and Ethics Committee.
He currently holds an honorary faculty member position at IIT Guwahati in India.
Gavin is highly active in the HCI research community, organising academic conferences including the BCS British HCI Conference in 2014 and the ACM Interaction Design and Children conference in 2016 in conjunction with the BBC.
Over the years he has organised workshops at conferences and delivered courses internationally.
For example, a course on CCCI at IIT Guwahati and the Interact Conference in Mumbai.
He has also acted as an associate chair for international conferences including, IFIP Interact, ACM Designing Interactive Systems and NordiCHI.
Since 2015, he has been chair of the BCS Interaction group overseeing the British HCI Conference, running PhD training events for students around the world and supporting the affiliated Journal Interacting with Computers.
He has collaborated internationally with academics on Erasmus plus projects around PhD training and active learning.
Current projects include a KTP looking at the design of elite football training aids for academies and working with St Catherine’s hospice on the design of future digital care.
He has provided consultancy for the BBC on the accessibility of their online games and is working with LingoKids to evaluate their app with preschool children.
Gavin is currently supervising PhDs in the design of privacy interventions for children, serious games for deaf children in Nigeria, whilst previous PhDs have been in the areas of physical games for children, designing value centred evaluation methods and educational games.
He would be happy to supervise PhD students in these or related areas.
Gavin has twenty years of experience conducting research in the area of HCI and CCI and actively published in these areas, organises events, conferences and participates in programme committees.
He has an active research network working in the areas of participatory design and evaluation methods in a range of different contexts.
Email: Email: Dr Gavin Sim

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/academics/dr-nathalie-renevier:
Nathalie Renevier is a Principal Lecturer in mechanical and aerospace Engineering and academic lead for Mechanical and Aerospace.
She has a physics, material sciences and business background with over 10 years' experience in the industry across Europe.
Her expertise is in the development of plasma assisted processes and products, surface characterisations, tribological testing of thin films and thick films, nano-tribology and Lean Six-Sigma methodologies.
Principal Lecturer
Telephone: +44 (0)1772 893316
Email: Email: Dr Nathalie  Renevier

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/academics/dr-ruth-parkes:
Ruth teaches on the professional social work courses and is involved in allocating student placements.
She supports doctoral students as both a Director of Studies and Research Degrees Tutor and is deputy lead for the Prison and Probation strand of the Criminal Justice Research Centre.
Ruth’s research interests include phenomenological studies into trauma experiences, and the lived experience of criminal justice professionals.
Ruth teaches across under-graduate and post-graduate Social Work courses and allocates student placements.
She has a key role in developing relationships with local stakeholders and training social work practitioners.
Her teaching role with students largely focuses on criminal justice, offending behaviour and developing skills for practice.
Ruth is the disability lead for the school and is passionate about ensuring equal learning opportunities for all students.
She is also the deputy lead for Youth and Justice in the University-wide trans-disciplinary Criminal Justice Partnership.
Ruth joined UCLan in October 2013 after working for the Probation Service for 11 years.
As a Probation Officer in Greater Manchester and Cumbria, Ruth worked primarily with people sentenced to medium and long term custodial sentences for violent and sexual offences.
Ruth’s main areas of expertise were the assessment and  supervision of men convicted of sexual offences, and her training specialisms were the use of assessment and information gathering tools such as ViSOR, (the Violent and Sex Offender Register) and formal report writing.
Ruth's research is currently concerned with the impact of sexual trauma exposure on professionals.
This includes monitoring adverse impact, identifying coping strategies, and considering how workplace policy and practice helps or hinders staff in dealing with trauma exposure.
Telephone: +44 (0)1772 895407
Email: Email: Dr Ruth Parkes

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/academics/dr-ambreen-chohan:
Ambreen is research active within the area of Rehabilitation Sciences and is a member of the Allied Health Research Unit.
Ambreen joined our Allied Health Research Unit in 2009 and is currently a Senior Research Fellow in Health, Innovation and Wellbeing, with over 20 years of experience in the area of Biomechanics.
Ambreen has an extensive track record in research output and independently funded collaborative work with small, medium and larger companies.
Her work has largely involved independent testing of products targeted to interact with the human body.
The predominant focus of her work to date has centred around innovative advanced modelling techniques of spinal posture, management of posture and conservative management of musculoskeletal conditions and lymphoedema.
Ambreen has access to a diverse range of collaborators across the university, NHS, private practice, SMEs and other institutions.
Some of the companies previously assisted have used this independent work to attain Prescription Pricing Approval or have extensively expanded their turnover through international sales using an evidence-based marketing approach.
Ambreen supervises a number of PhD and MSc research students in the area of biomechanics, health and rehabilitation sciences from a variety of areas of expertise.
With these unique collaborations, it has been possible to tailor the approach to the company being assisted in order to maximise benefit to the client.
With an established track record in grant capture as PI and CI, she has most recently facilitated the effective delivery of Research element of the £2.3m ERDF funded Innovation clinic project.
Ambreen is also actively involved in promoting Equality, Diversity and Inclusion in the University, through research on Health Inequalities the Global Centre for Race Equality and Race Equality Chartermark panellist with Advance HE, UK.
Alongside her role as Associate Editor of Prosthetics and Orthotics International, she also reviews for over 20 peer reviewed journals, national and international research funding panels, competitions and conferences and has over 7 years of experience Reviewing and Chairing in the University Ethics Committee.
Telephone: +44 (0) 1772 892793
Email: Email: Dr Ambreen Chohan

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/academics/dr-graham-chapman:
Graham was appointed as a research fellow in biomechanics within the Allied Health Research Unit in April 2019.
Graham’s research interest focus on understanding the effects of musculoskeletal and neurological conditions on gait and how conservative treatments and/or surgical intervention help patients function.
The aim of Graham’s research is to provide evidence-based outcomes which can be applied within a clinical setting.
Dr Chapman has published over 30 peer reviewed journal papers and has written a number of book chapters.
Graham’s research spans the use of 3D kinematics/kinetics of lower limb gait analysis through to multibody modelling of joint function in combination with patient reported outcome measures to explore the effectiveness and efficacy of conservative and/or surgical treatments on patients’ function.
Dr Chapman is an experienced clinical biomechanist with over 10 years’ experience in biomechanical research with particular interest on the effect of pathological conditions, for example osteoarthritis and psoriatic arthritis on foot and ankle function and how surgical and conservative treatments can improve patients’ health and function.
Dr Chapman has been successful in securing £0.5M in external funding.
Telephone: +44 (0)1772 894949
Email: Email: Dr Graham Chapman

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/academics/dr-jess-macbeth:
Jess is a Senior Lecturer in Sports Studies.
She teaches the sociology of sport and physical education, with a particular interest in equity and equality issues experienced by disabled people and women.
Her research expertise lies specifically in visually impaired sport and her work has contributed to debates surrounding classification in disability sport.
Jess supervises postgraduate researchers on a range of projects and is a Research Degree Tutor.
Jess teaches at undergraduate and postgraduate level on a range of modules focusing on the sociological aspects of sport and physical education.
She teaches primarily on the BA (Hons) Sport & PE degree programme.
Jess is a Fellow of the Higher Education Academy and has been recognised as a key contributor to the DigiLearn Sector for her use of digital technology within teaching and learning.
Her current research focuses on sociological issues in visually impaired sport including: socialisation experiences, barriers and facilitators to participation and classification.
She acts as a peer reviewer for a range of sport sociology and adapted physical activity journals.
An experienced Director of Studies and Supervisor of a range of Masters and PhD research projects, Jess also supports postgraduate researchers in her role as Research Degree Tutor.
Before joining UCLan Jess graduated from the University of Stirling with a First-Class Honours degree in Economics with Sports Studies and a PhD entitled “Women’s Football in Scotland: An Interpretive Analysis”.
In 2004 Jess joined UCLan as a Research Fellow of the International Football Institute.
In this role she began conducting research on partially sighted football whilst working as Team Coordinator with the England Partially Sighted football squad at the IBSA Partially Sighted Football World Championships in Manchester 2004.
This project lead to several publications and sparked her interest in visually impaired sport specifically and disability sport more broadly.
In 2005 Jess helped organise the International Football Institute Conference 2005 “Women, Football and Europe” which coincided with the UEFA Women’s Euro 2005 tournament being hosted across England and attracted national and international academics and practitioners to UCLan.
Jess became a Lecturer at UCLan in 2006, Senior Lecturer in 2008 and was Course Leader for the subject of Sport on the Combined Honours Degree Programme.
She has taught across undergraduate and postgraduate programmes and is an established member of the Sport and Physical Education Course Team.
A key part of her current role is acting as Director of Studies, Supervisor and Research Degree Tutor to postgraduate researchers.
Her current research focuses on visually impaired sport and in May 2019 Jess hosted the first Visually Impaired Sport and Physical Activity Research Workshop to be held in the UK, attracting academics and practitioners to discuss research priorities in this field.
Jess’ PhD research uncovered the historical roots of women’s football in Scotland, explored the socialisation experiences of Scottish female footballers and examined the meaning of football in their lives.
Her PhD research led to historical and sociological peer-reviewed journal articles.
During her time as a postgraduate researcher, Jess also worked as a Research Assistant in the Institute for Sports Research on consultancy projects for Sport England, sportscotland and the Scottish Sports Association.
Since being at UCLan, Jess’ research has focused on visually impaired sport, specifically partially sighted football.
She has conducted several projects with partially sighted players at both grassroots and elite levels, exploring their experiences of socialisation into football, barriers and facilitators and experiences of classification.
Her most recent research on visually impaired athletes’ experiences of classification, in collaboration with Dr Ben Powis (Solent University), contributed to classification debates in disability sport and was presented at the 2019 VISTA International Paralympic Committee Conference.
Also in 2019, Jess was awarded funding to host the first Visually Impaired Sport and Physical Activity Research Workshop to be held in the UK, attracting academics and practitioners to discuss research priorities in this field.
Jess has developed working relationships with a range of key stakeholders involved in visually impaired sport and inclusive physical education.
Jess is an experienced Director of Studies and Supervisor of postgraduate research and has also led projects on the Undergraduate Research Internship Programme.
She is currently part of the Research Team on a British Blind Sport funded project investigating Motor Competence and Development in Young People with Visual impairment, focusing specifically on interviews with children and their families.
Telephone: +44 (0)1772 894922
Email: Email: Dr Jess Macbeth

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/academics/dr-jonathan-sinclair:
Dr Jonathan Sinclair is Course Leader for both the MSc in Sport & Exercise Sciences and the MSc Nutrition and Exercise Sciences.
He is research active in Sport Exercise & Nutritional Sciences and part of the SENS consultancy service.
Jonathan obtained a PhD here at The University of Central Lancashire and teaches across a range of courses and modules across the University.
Jonathan is research active in Sport Exercise & Nutritional Sciences and has published over 360 research publications in this area.
Jonathan is also a passionate teacher of both Sport, Exercise & Nutritional Sciences and statistics and incorporates research interests, expertise and theory into the modules that they deliver.
As a Reader in Sport, Exercise & Nutritional Sciences as well as course leadership and research duties, Jonathan also acts as Research Degrees Tutor for the Faculty of Allied Health & Wellbeing and serve as BASES laboratory director for UCLan.
After completing a Sport & Exercise Sciences degree at the University of Central Lancashire, Jonathan received a PhD in Clinical Biomechanics in 2013 and have since gone on to receive a Higher Doctorate (Doctor of Science) in 2022.
Further to this Jonathan also holds a Postgraduate Certificates in Learning & Teaching in Higher Education, Research Student Supervision and Nutrition.
Jonathan is also a Principal Fellow of the Higher Education Academy/ Advance HE, a Chartered Statistician and Fellow of the Royal Statistical Society, a Chartered Scientist with the Science Council, Registered Nutritionist with the Association for Nutrition, Certified Strength & Conditioning Specialist with the National Strength & Conditioning Association and a Practitioner Registrant with the Sport and Exercise Nutrition Register.
In addition to this serves as Associate Editor for the ‘The Knee’ and ‘Sport Sciences for Health’ and is on the editorial board of several journals such as Footwear Science, Comparative Exercise Physiology, Journal of Pain & Relief and Foot & Ankle Studies.
Telephone: +44 (0)1772 892796
Email: Email: Dr Jonathan Sinclair

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/academics/christopher-yiannaki:
Chris is a lecturer working on the Professional Doctorate (DProf) and Professional Masters (MProf) in Elite Performance.
Chris also contributes to the MSc Sports Coaching course within the School of Health, Social Work and Sport.
He has expertise in coaching, talent development, football and futsal having worked in elite environments for over 15 years.
Chris has several publications in these areas and works with external football clubs and governing bodies around these topics.
He is a fellow of the Higher Education Academy and supervises postgraduate learners working in elite sporting environments.
Working on the Professional Doctorate and Masters courses, Chris helps to supervise numerous candidates from around the world in their postgraduate research journeys.
Doctoral candidates stem from elite sporting environments and seek to use the course as a way of making a positive applied impact within their specific environment, whilst also seeking to progress their personal careers.
These combined scholarly and practical objectives align with Chris’s background working to harmoniously connect academia and elite sports.
Embarking on his own Doctoral journey in 2015, Chris graduated in 2021 with a thesis titled “Could futsal hold the key to developing the next generation of youth soccer players”?
Continuing this research, Chris has developed a special interest in futsal and its connection with football, with further scholarly activity in this field resulting in numerous peer-reviewed publications and planned high-impact future projects here.
Practically, Chris’s career has allowed him to work as a coach in professional football club academies for over fifteen years (Bolton Wanders FC and Preston North End FC).
During this time, Chris has developed a strong network around the UK and beyond in coaching and talent development.
Additionally, Chris has worked as a coach educator for The FA since 2011 supporting the development of an outstanding coaching workforce in both football and futsal.
Alongside this Chris’s practical involvement has worked considerably in the education sector initially delivering Further Education courses in 2008 before moving into Higher Education in 2010 at Myerscough College.
Occupying this role for eleven years, Chris was Course Leader for our BSc Football Coaching and Performance undergraduate degree program.
In 2021, Chris moved here in his current role in the School Health, Social Work and Sport.
Working with colleagues across the Football Performance Hub, Chris’s research focus is on coaching and talent development in youth and elite environments.
As such, his research strand within the Football Performance Hub has a specific focus on coaching in both football and futsal.
With numerous peer-reviewed publications in futsal, Chris has a special interest in this sport making a unique contribution to the development of knowledge in futsal globally.
Email: Email: Dr Christopher Yiannaki

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/academics/clive-palmer:
Clive teaches across a range of subjects within socio-cultural sport, PE, coaching and education.
He is a HEA National Teaching Fellow (2019) and a UKCGE Recognised Research Supervisor.
He is a strong advocate of research informed teaching and actively promotes opportunities to showcase student writing which communicates experiences and discoveries through the study of sport.
Clive is Editor of The Sporting Image Series (2009 to date) and also the Editor in Chief of the Journal of Qualitative Research in Sports Studies (2007 to date).
Clive was appointed at UCLan in 2008 to lead on a new UKCC Level 4 Masters degree in Elite Sports Coaching.
Since then he has been Programme Leader on the BA Sports Studies and BA Coaching degrees and designed and led the MA in Outdoor Practice.
Clive is also the School Research Ethics lead and Research Degree Tutor for PG students - Supervising MAs, MPhil-PhDs and conducting Examinations at level 7/8.
Clive is a Senior Research Fellow in the THRiVE Research Centre (for Midwifery).
New in 2021, Clive has designed and introduced a new PhD by Portfolio pathway to widen participation to learning at Level 8.
Clive has taught across many sectors of educational provision including HE (predominantly), FE and mainstream Secondary schools, Outdoor Education Centres and private commercial activity providers.
My teaching approaches draw from my varied life experiences as a sports performer, sports coach, and aircraft engineer - formally an RAF Apprentice.
My experiences of working in other sectors of education such as Youth Service, adults with disabilities/learning difficulties, Referral Units, has reinforced the importance of being a credible and approachable teacher in a broader context, and I very much bring this ethos to my work at UCLan.
I gained my Fellowship of the HEA in 2013, and am currently a Senior Fellow.
Pedagogy and Physical Education, Gymnastics and Aesthetics, Outdoor learning and Arts-based education, socio-cultural aspects of sport, Postgraduate learning and research supervision, qualitative research methodology, narrative methods and experimental research design, PhD examination.
Telephone: +44 (0)1772 895710
Email: Email: Dr Clive Palmer

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/academics/dr-alan-thomson:
Alan is the Programme Leader for the BA (Hons) Sport and Physical Education degree.
With particular expertise in understanding teacher interactions and interrelations in physical education departments, his teaching contributes to a range of socio-cultural and pedagogical modules at undergraduate level and to the sociological element of the taught Masters programme.
Prior to working at a number of universities, Alan had previously taught in secondary education.
He is a Fellow of the Higher Education Academy.
Focusing upon everyday life in physical education departments, Alan is interested in how power is used (and by whom) in different educational contexts.
He seeks to make sense of how social and cultural perspectives of embodiment are used to socially construct physical educators' bodies and the role bodies play in the construction of identity.
Current research projects include the embodied experiences of late entry physical education students and collaborations with colleagues at Liverpool JMU and Edge Hill that focus upon different perspectives of experiencing SEND.
Alan is supervising PhD projects that include the active ageing of sea-kayakers and the experiences of educators in delivering an undergraduate physical education programme at a Chinese university through the medium of English.
Alan started teaching Physical Education at a secondary school on Merseyside, before taken up a post at Edge Hill University.
Arriving at the University of Central Lancashire from the University of Lincoln, Alan brings considerable experience of teaching and quality assurance to the role.
Over the years he has served on external panels at numerous universities as an advisor on (re)validations and Periodic Reviews and as an External Examiner.
Alan also has an extensive background in football, having played to a high level and with many years experience of coaching at both professional and international levels.
He is currently serving as a Governor at Wade Deacon High School in Cheshire.
Telephone: 01772 894928
Email: Email: Dr Alan Thomson

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/academics/jill-alexander:
Jill is the Course Leader for the DProf and MProf in Elite Performance.
She is also a Senior Lecturer and delivers several modules on the MSc Football Science & Rehabilitation and MSc in Football Medical Leadership & Performance courses.
Prior to this, she led the BSc (hons) Sports Therapy programme, achieving our highest NSS results, student recruitment and retention rates for the course.
As the course leader for the DProf and MProf in Elite Performance, Jill is responsible for course development and facilitation of the programme.
She ensures the course continues its outstanding reputation.
Focussing on bringing together the development of research informed teaching and publication output of a practical applied nature, advocating real world and evidenced based practices simultaneously within teaching and learning.
Jill began her career as a graduate sports therapist in 2008, qualifying with a first-class (hons) degree.
As an ex-gymnast competing nationally, sport has been an influential part of her career.
Since graduating, Jill has worked in semi and professional rugby for several years at national and county level and most recently with the France national team at the U20’s World Cup.
Jill has led several funded projects including most recently a tripartite Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) cryotherapy project with UCLan, Manchester Metropolitan University and ProMOTION EV1; a collaborative project funded by the Federation Equestre Internationale (FEI) to develop an evidence-based classification system in Elite Para Equestrian Dressage for the FEI; and most recently provided consultancy work with the FA Premier League, through funded research projects, to aid the development of policy guidelines.
Her findings from her Ph.D.
titled; Utilisation of Cryotherapy in Elite Sport: Understanding the Multifaceted Response, provides a framework for the optimisation of cryotherapy for injury, recovery and performance in sport.
She has recently presented this work at the FIFA Medical Conference in Lyon, Oklahoma City Thunder NBA Staff Education Programme 2023, NBATA conference in Chicago, and several FA Premier League clubs.
She is currently working on consultancy projects within elite sport reviewing recovery strategies, protocols and optimisation within their environments and the impact on performance.
Jill is the Research and Funding Lead for the Football Performance Hub at the University of Central Lancashire, with research interests for the optimisation of cryotherapy and performance recovery strategies within elite sport.
She has published over 60 peer-reviewed publications in cryotherapy and elite performance.
She currently works as an independent Performance Recovery Consultant for several Championship and FA Premier League Football (Soccer) clubs, currently leading several projects to maximise individual player recovery strategies, player education materials and R&D initiatives for improved player, department and club recovery and performance.
She is also the founder and editor-in-chief of the Journal of Elite Sport Performance.
Jill is the Research and Funding Lead for our Football Performance Hub, with research interests for the optimisation of cryotherapy and recovery protocols in elite sport.
She has published over 40 peer-reviewed publications in cryotherapy, cryo-compression, contrast therapy and elite performance.
Her research strand within the Football Performance Hub with a specific focus on recovery strategies in elite sport.
Jill has several publications in the area of cryotherapy and her research focusses around the effects of cryotherapy in sport through several performance parameters including biomechanical, physiological, psychological markers.
Although not limited to this area she has recent publications in elite performance and injury recovery.
Her research interests also include current projects in the remit of elite equine and rider performance through kinematic postural analysis of the rider.
Telephone: +44 (0)1772 892781
Email: Email: Dr Jill Alexander

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/academics/dr-jennifer-jones:
Jennifer is an archaeological scientist.
She is interested in exploring the interactions between humans, animals and the environments in which they lived.
She uses stable isotope analysis alongside traditional zooarchaeological methods to reconstruct past human diet, animal management strategies and faunal palaeoecologies.
She is also interested in using biomolecular methods alongside wider proxies to reconstruct past environmental and climatic changes and how this impacted on past human and animal behaviour.
Jennifer’s research explores a range of topics related to human-animal-environment interactions.
She has recently published researcher on the survival of human and animal populations in the Southern European refugia during the Last Glacial Maximum, and the environmental conditions surrounding the extinction of the Neanderthals and Rise of Modern Humans in Southern Europe.
She is also interested in the diet of early farmers, and the pastoral strategies that they used, and the adaptations of Atlantic farmers to liminal insular environments.
Jennifer teaches on a range of modules at UCLan, drawing on examples from her research in her lectures and classes.
Before starting at UCLan Jennifer has previously worked in institutions in both the UK and Spain She held a Juan de la Cierva Incorporación Fellowship awarded by the Spanish Ministry of Science, innovation, and Universities, at the University of Cantabria in Spain (2019-2020).
Prior to this Jennifer was a Lecturer (2018-2019) and Teaching Fellow (2017-2018) in Archaeological Science at the University of Aberdeen where she coordinated a range of Undergraduate and master’s modules.
Between 2015-2017 Jennifer held a prestigious Marie Skłodowska-Curie Research Fellow to research her project “CLIMAPROX: Hunter-Gatherer adaptations in northern Iberian Refugia from the Last Glacial Maximum to the Mesolithic: A Multi-Proxy Climatic Investigation”, at the University of Cantabria.
She was also a Postdoctoral Researcher as part of the project “EUROREFUGIA: Human Subsistence and Climate Change in European Refugia: Late Neanderthals and Early Modern Humans” also at the University of Cantabria.
Jennifer is an archaeological scientist specialising in the use of stable isotope analysis alongside more traditional zooarchaeological techniques to understand more about past human diet, animal management strategies, faunal palaeoecologies, and how environmental change impacted on the behaviour of humans and animals.
She uses multi isotope analysis (δ13C, δ15N, δ18O, δ34S) to answer questions about what people ate in the past, what the environment was like, how faunal niches changed, how animals were being managed in the landscape, and human and animal adaptations to changing environmental conditions.
She works on time periods ranging from the Middle Palaeolithic to Viking and Norse periods and beyond to answer questions about the complex relationships between humans, animals, and the environments that they lived in She is particularly interested in the following themes:
Telephone: +44 (0) 1772 89
Email: Email: Dr Jennifer Jones

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/academics/marta-krysmann:
Marta teaches across a range of research-based modules.
With particular expertise in experimental chemistry and material sciences, Marta supervises postgraduate projects based on independent research and systematic reviewing.
Marta’s current research interests include nanomaterials, in particular: (I) development of novel drug delivery systems and nanocomposites with long lasting antimicrobial finish; (II) development of antimicrobial coatings inhibiting biofilm formation on dental / denture materials; (III) development of novel nanomaterials for bioimaging and fluorescent nanotracers (CDots); (IV) development of peptide-based biogenic dental products / peptide enabled remineralisation.
Marta’s research contributed to number of peer reviewed publications.
Currently Marta is a senior lecturer within the School.
Marta joined University of Central Lancashire in May 2013 as a lecturer in Physical Chemistry at School of Pharmacy and Biomedical Sciences.
In 2017 Marta was appointed as a senior lecturer in Pharmaceutical Chemistry within the School of Pharmacy and Biomedical Sciences.
Prior to working at the University of Central Lancashire, Marta worked as research associate at Cornell University in the USA.
Marta studied for the MSc level in Bioorganic Chemistry at Adam Mickiewicz University in Poland.
During her studies, she went for Socrates Programme at Lund’s University in Sweden where she completed her studies with MSc in Physical Chemistry.
In 2010 Marta completed her PhD at University of Reading in the UK.
Telephone: +44 (0)1772 893502
Email: Email: Dr Marta Krysmann

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/academics/antonios-kelarakis:
Antonios has established a long track record in ground-breaking research and product development and his publications cover a broad area of topics related to nanomaterials, nanocomposites, nanosensors, colloids, polymers, smart coatings, aerogels, biomaterials, energy materials and forensic nanotools.
Antonios’ research is interdisciplinary in nature (it combines elements from material science, nanotechnology, chemistry, biology, pharmacy and medicine) and emphasizes on the development of a new generation of energy-efficient materials and the establishment of green chemical approaches for a sustainable future.
Currently Antonios is leading a high-profile research group that has hosted more than 20 postgraduate students within the last 5 years and numerous undergraduate students, Erasmus exchange students and international visitors.
Over the years Antonios’ research resulted in the development of self-assembled nanostructures with unique characteristics, the preparation of smart coatings, the emergence of ultrabright nanoemitters and the synthesis of multifunctional nanomaterials with advanced performance.
Antonios has established long-term collaborations with several institutions such as University of Manchester (U.K.), Ilmenau Technical University (Germany), Adam Mickiewicz University (Poland), Ondokuz Mayis University (Turkey), East China University of Science and Technology (China), Songkla University (Thailand).
Within the last 5 years he has presented 15 invited talks in international conferences and institutions and he delivered seminars in 3 universities abroad.
Antonios is highly active in academic peer reviewing, grant proposal assessment and he is a member of the editorial board in four journals.
Antonios is serving as research degree tutor for the School and he is supporting research-focused initiatives of the University.
Antonios is an elected member of the Committee for Ethics and Integrity, a member of the UCLan REF 2021 Environment working group and a member of Science ethics review panel.
Prior to joining the University of Central Lancashire Antonios has gained extensive experience in both academic research and commercial development with appointments in world-leading institutions in Europe (Universities of Manchester and Sheffield in U.K., University of Athens in Greece, University of Karlsruhe in Germany) and U.S.A.
(Cornell University and SUNY at Stony Brook).
For more than two decades Antonios is working closely with major industries in USA, Europe, Middle East and India.
To that end, Antonios has participated in projects funded by Intel Corporation, Dow Company, Kimberly Clark, Coca Cola, Astra Zeneca, Aramco, while his research has also been sponsored by the U.S.
Department of Energy, National Science Foundation of U.S.A., New York State Energy Research and Development Authority, Hellenic National Scholarship Institution, Research England, Marie Sklodowska-Curie Research and Training Network, the European Commission (5th and 6th Framework Programs and Horizon 2020) and the Newton fund.
Telephone: +44 (0)1772 894172
Email: Email: Dr Antonios Kelarakis

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/academics/dr-chandrashekhar-v-kulkarni:
Chandrashekhar (Shekhar) is leading a ‘Lipid Nanostructures Labratory’ at the University of Central Lancashire.
He obtained his PhD in 'Chemical Biology' from University of London with a Marie Curie Fellowship (2005-2008) hosted by Imperial College London (UK).
Subsequently he worked as a postdoc at University of Graz (Austria), University of Bayreuth (Germany) and University of Cambridge (UK).
Shekhar's main research interests include drug nanocarriers, formulations, biomembranes, self-assembly, lipid nanostructures, hybrid nanomaterials and biomaterials.
In the era of bio- and nano-technology there is a strong demand for technological development of novel materials and their applications while it is also important to understand underlying principles, for instance, relevant mechanisms and essential biological processes.
Shekhar's research sits on such an interface of classical and applied research disciplines.
His research is highly interdisciplinary and collaborative, based on a common theme of 'lipid self-assembly: significance and applications'.
He has published several research articles, edited books and presented in various conferences.
Shekhar is a member of editorial board of some journals and book series.
He has reviewed more than 100 articles from 30+ journals.
He also acted as a referee for several national and international funding applications.
Shekhar teaches and conducts practicals on various topics in Medicinal Chemistry, Nanotechnology based Chemistry, Formulation Chemistry, Material Science and Frontiers in these areas.
Shekhar obtained his doctoral (PhD) degree in “Chemical Biology” on the topic ‘Membrane Protein Crystallization using Lipid Cubic Phases’ at Imperial College London, UK (2005-2008) with Marie-Curie Fellowship.
Subsequent post-doctoral work in Graz-Austria involved projects on hierarchically ordered lipid self-assemblies (e.g.
nanostructured emulsions) and hydrogels (films).
Postdoc projects in Bayreuth-Germany comprised the development of crowded cellular systems using viscoelastic hydrogels.
The last Postdoc at Cambridge-UK included work on fabrication of nanobilayers and hybrid nanopores for translocations of biopolymers (DNA).
Prior to PhD, he worked on studying structure-property-processing relationship of complex fluids (polymers, polymer-clay nanocomposites, and dairy foods).
Shekhar’s overall research work has resulted into a decent number of publications (40+) and presentations (about 80+) in a relevant scientific community.
Shekhar’s research expertise is highly interdisciplinary with specialization in “Applied Materials and Biophysical Chemistry”.
His work involves basic research in these areas, but given the timely need, it has evolved into more applied themes having a great potential for spin-off businesses, entrepreneurship and industrial applications.
For instance, a work on lipid-based formulations is useful for drug, gene and nutrient delivery for pharmaceutics, food and cosmetics industries (he has published papers in these areas).
His research team’s recent hydrogel-lipid hybrid nanomaterials are useful for sustained drug release as well as edible antimicrobial coatings on fruits and vegetables.
Not only materials development and their applications, but projects also involve process development and optimization.
For instance, he has developed efficient and user-friendly (3-D printed) set-up to produce vesicles (liposomes), he developed temperature-controlled slides for confocal microscope.
Recently his group has developed electroformation method to prepare cubosomes (lipid particles) and also a method to formulate ghee (butter oil), which happens to be a cheap source of food-grade lipids.
Telephone: +44 (0)1772 894339
Email: Email: Dr Chandrashekhar V Kulkarni

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/academics/enoche-oga:
Enoche teaches across a range of modules on our MPharm, Biomedical Sciences, MSc Industrial Pharmaceutics, MSc Nanomedicine and MSc Drug Discovery and Development courses.
With expertise in Pharmaceutical Sciences, Biopharmaceutics and Professional Education, Enoche's scholarship has led to collaborative projects.
In recognition of their contributions to teaching, Enoche is a Senior Fellow of the Higher Education Academy.
She also supervises postgraduate projects and is a School Research Degrees Tutor and international lead.
She is course leader for the MSc Drug Discovery and Development and MSc Drug Discovery and Development (with professional placement) courses.
Enoche is a Senior lecturer in Clinical Pharmaceutics at the University of Central Lancashire.
Previously she was a research fellow, teaching assistant and community/hospital pharmacist.
She has expertise in curriculum development, quality assurance and enhancement of student experience across the pharmaceutical and biomedical science disciplines.
Enoche is strongly committed to the value of education in transforming lives.
Her personal values align with the University’s mission to deliver high-quality learning for all with the potential to benefit regardless of their socio-economic starting point and background.
She has published and presented widely in pedagogy and pharmaceutical science specialities.
Telephone: +44 (0)1772 895842
Email: Email: Dr Enoche Oga

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/academics/joseph-hayes:
Dr.
Joseph Hayes is a Senior Lecturer in Computational Biology in the School of Pharmacy and Biomedical Sciences.
He has a BSc (Hons) degree in chemistry from University College Dublin and a PhD in computational chemistry from the University of Dublin, Trinity College.
Joe lectures a range of subjects such as chemistry, drug design, and research methods at both under- and post-graduate level, and supervises MSc/PhD research students.
His main research expertise is in the area of drug discovery, applying a multidisciplinary approach towards the development of new treatment options for, in particular, Alzheimer's disease, brain tumours (glioblastoma and medulloblastoma) and type 2 diabetes.
Hayes has published widely in medicinal chemistry and has > 50 publications in peer-reviewed journals.
His research has attracted funding from sources such as the European Union, Royal Society of Chemistry and Sydney Driscoll Neuroscience Foundation.
With particular expertise in computer-aided drug design, these skills have been incorporated into "research methods" of the MSc in Cancer Biology & Therapy , MRes Neuroscience , and MSc Drug Discovery & Development degrees.
Joe also lectures chemistry as part of the BSc (Hons) Biomedical Sciences , BSc (Hons) Physiology and Pharmacology , and MPharm (Hons) Pharmacy degrees.
He is a research degree tutor (RDT) within the School of Pharmacy & Biomedical Science and sits on the university Research Degree Board (RDB).
He graduated with a BSc (Hons) degree in chemistry from University College Dublin before completing a PhD in computational chemistry at the University of Dublin, Trinity College.
Joe then gained academic and industrial postdoctoral experience first in the USA (Trinity University, Texas) and then in Europe, performing research at Anterio Consult & Research (Mannheim, Germany) and Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Spain.
This was followed by five years at the National Hellenic Research Foundation (Athens, Greece) where the main research focus was investigating control of glycogenolysis for the potential treatment of type 2 diabetes, funded by the European Union.
Following a brief period as Associate Lecturer with the Open University, Joe joined the University of Central Lancashire (UCLan) in 2012, first as a Lecturer in Synthetic Biology within the Division of Chemistry, before moving to the School of Pharmacy & Biomedical Sciences as a Senior Lecturer in Computational Biology (2018).
His main current research focus is in the area of computational drug design, with a particular interest in developing treatments for Alzheimer’s disease and the most common malignant brain tumours in adults (glioblastoma) and children (medulloblastoma), with PhD students working in these areas.
He is part of the UCLan Research Centre for Brain and Behaviour, and the Brain Tumour North West (BTNW) consortium.
He also publishes widely on type 2 diabetes and has additional research interests in molecularly imprinted polymers (MIPS), and computational modelling of de novo peptides designed to self-assemble into nanostructures with unique characteristics and potential applications as hydrogels for localised therapy against solid tumours (in collaboration with Dr.
Mohamed Elsawy, De Montfort University, Leicester).
Joe has many other external (national and international) research collaborators that include Prof.
Loranne Agius (Newcastle University), Profs.
Laszlo Somsak and Eva Bokor (University of Debrecen, Hungary), Profs.
Demetres Leonidas, Anna-Maria Psarra and Vicky Skamnaki (University of Thessaly, Greece), Prof.
Ana Martinez (CSIC, Madrid), Prof.
Atsushi Kato (University of Toyama, Japan) and Prof.
George Archontis (University of Cyprus).
Hayes is a member of the Royal Society of Chemistry (MRSC) and is a Fellow of the Higher Education Academy (FHEA).
Telephone: +44 (0)1772 894334
Email: Email: Dr Joseph Hayes

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/academics/dr-emma-threadgold:
Emma is a Senior Lecturer in Psychology here at UCLan.
Emma is contributes to both undergraduate and post-graduate teaching, supervision and assessment.
She is Chair of the Science Ethics Board, and Research Degree Tutor for the School of Psychology and Humanities.
Her research interests are centred around Cognitive Psychology, with a specific focus on insight problem solving, creativity, distraction and false memories.
Emma has published articles across a range of peer reviewed journals, including; Applied Cognitive Psychology, Frontiers, Journal of Cognitive Psychology and Journal of Experimental Child Psychology, and presented at numerous national and international conferences.
Emma supervises projects at both undergraduate and postgraduate level, and is Director of Studies for two PhD students, and two Masters by Research students.
Her role also includes contribution to teaching, assessment and administrative duties, with specific duties as Postgraduate Research Degree Tutor and Deputy-Vice Chair for the Science Ethics Board.
Emma graduated with a PhD in Psychology in 2012 from Lancaster University.
Following this, she undertook a series of post-doctoral roles, including Research Assistant and Lecturer at Edge Hill University, and Senior Research Fellow on a three-year ESRC Research grant based at Lancaster University, and later, City University London.
She has over 12 years experience of teaching in Higher Education and conducting research in Cognitive Psychology.
Emma also has experience of supporting and organising conferences, delivering outreach activities (particularly with local schools and colleges), and engaging with the media through radio and television interviews.
Telephone: +44 (0) 1772 894334
Email: Email: Dr Emma Threadgold

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/academics/dr-reyhan-furman:
Reyhan is currently a Senior Lecturer in Developmental Cognition.
Reyhan works primarily on language development, and the central focus of her research has been to discover how children’s understanding and use of bodily actions influence their language learning.
Reyhan has published numerous articles in journals such as Developmental Psychology, Cognition, Language, Cognition and Neuroscience, Journal of Child Language, Journal of Pragmatics, and Bilingualism: Language and Cognition.
Her research is cross-disciplinary in nature, drawing on the varied methods and tools of psychology and linguistics such as experimental paradigms and corpus analysis.
Her research is also comparative, focusing on speakers of different languages (monolinguals and bilinguals) and ages (infancy into adulthood).
In her current role, Reyhan is the course leader/programme director for the MSc in Psychology of Child Development.
She teaches on various modules at the undergraduate and postgraduate levels.
Before joining UCLan, Reyhan worked as a postdoctoral fellow in Psychology at the University of Alberta in Edmonton, Canada, and as research staff at the Max Planck Institute for Psycholinguistics in Nijmegen, the Netherlands.
Reyhan graduated from Boğaziçi University in Istanbul, Turkey with a double major with Honours in Psychology, and Guidance and Psychological Counselling, followed by a MA in Psychology.
She then completed her PhD in Linguistics at the Max Planck Institute for Psycholinguistics, and Radboud University in the Netherlands.
Reyhan's ongoing research examines multimodal language development in typically-developing children.
She also extends this work to uncover the relationship between speech and gesture with a focus on how they interact in children with developmental/language delays or impairments compared to typically developing children.
She is especially interested in the role gestures play in the word learning of children from disadvantaged backgrounds with poor language outcomes or those with atypical language development.
Another strand of Reyhan's research focuses on bilingual language development.
She is interested in the multimodal language comprehension and use of bilingual children.
For instance, she has explored how monolingual and bilingual children benefit from a speaker’s gestures in their comprehension of ambiguities in speech.
Another current project focuses on bilingual babies’ language development and examines whether their pointing gestures predict their language skills.
Reyhan is happy to supervise students who are interested in these or related topics for their undergraduate project, MSc or PhD research.
Please contact her via email to discuss opportunities to carry out research in these areas.
Telephone: ++44 (0) 1772 894451
Email: Email: Dr Reyhan  Furman

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/academics/dr-nicola-crossland:
Nicola is a health researcher with interests in breastfeeding, maternal and child health and wellbeing, and communication and relationships in healthcare and community settings.
Nicola is interested in women’s experiences through the maternity episode, particularly women’s experiences of infant feeding and early motherhood, and their experiences of care and supportive relationships during this time.
Here at UCLan, she has been involved in a number of research and evaluation projects exploring women’s experiences of infant feeding and infant feeding peer support.
Related projects include an evaluation of the implementation of a midwifery continuity of carer model, and an evaluation of a mobile phone app and parenting magazine embedded into maternity and early years services.
Nicola has also been involved in several systematic reviews, including systematic reviews of qualitative evidence on what women want in the postnatal period and factors affecting uptake of postnatal care from the perspective of women, partners and family/community.
She has also been involved in systematic reviews to understand the use of assisted vaginal delivery to reduce unnecessary caesarean sections, and to explore the role of inequalities in stillbirth.
Nicola supervises postgraduate research student projects in maternal and child health, infant feeding, and related topics.
Prior to her research at UCLan, Nicola worked as a project officer in the health sector, and as an academic researcher in the biological sciences, where she worked on lab-based molecular neurobiology projects.
Nicola served as a voluntary sector breastfeeding supporter between 2012-17.
Telephone: +44 (0)1772 892794
Email: Email: Dr Nicola Crossland

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/research/research-degrees/studentships:
Studentships are a funded opportunity which link to a specific research project.
Funding is is only available to PhD students working on that specific funded project or one that is open to any applicants in a specified field.
A list of schemes currently open will get advertised below throughout the year and via the national press or on job websites .
Appointments are then made following shortlisting and interviews.
Studentships are updated regularly so if you have missed a deadline, or there are no relevant opportunities at the moment, please check again soon.
Project title: Landscape study for micro siting of small vertical axis wind turbines
MSc by Research in School of Engineering and Computing
Reference number: TreesWT
Applications are invited for an MSc by Research in the Research Institute for Engineering, within the School of Engineering and Computing .
Both home and EU or international applicants may apply.
The post is self-funded.
It is expected the successful applicant will commence September 2025.
Trees are typically considered as obstacles for small wind turbine applications.
However, their precise effect on the performance of wind turbines in their vicinity has so far received little research attention.
It is therefore of interest to study, through experiments and modelling work, the airflow around trees with dense foliage (e.g., conifers) and to examine how certain tree configurations could influence or even improve the wind environment at a site where small vertical axis wind turbines are planned.
Preliminary research has shown the need to accurately measure the inertial resistance of trees.
The inertial resistance will be measured in this project using suitably identified “tree material” in a wind tunnel.
The sensitivity of the results to different aerodynamic porosities of the material will be examined.
A 2D simulation of the flow around a conifer tree will be conducted via ANSYS Fluent CFD solver using the measured values of the inertia resistance.
The flow patterns will be compared with 2D simulated results and experimental flow patterns around an artificial and a natural conifer tree, as well as with the results obtained from previous work.
There is the option of PhD progression after successful completion of this MSc by Research.
Further information
Informal project related enquiries about the post can be made by email:
Applications should be completed on our online application system , selecting the following options:
Please quote the reference number TreesWT on the application form.
Current research students are not eligible to apply for this studentship.
Programming and one of the following:
Project title: Natural ventilation of Photovoltaic (PV) modules using the cooling effect of wind speed for temperature reduction
Reference number: NatVentPV
Both Home and EU/International Applicants may apply.
The post is self-funded .
Elevated operating temperatures cause decrease in efficiency and degradation of the solar cells over time.
Reduction rates typically range from 0.4% / 5 o C to 0.5% / 5 o C.
The most cost-effective option to improve the cooling of photovoltaic panels is to make the most of natural wind.
Although the airgap between the panel and the mounting surface, the tilt and the sparsity of module arrangements have attracted the attention of researchers, little consideration has been given so far to the morphology of the ground at the location of the PV panels.
The study builds on and expands current research at the School of Engineering and Computing on this topic and it will be a quantitative investigation of the increasing wind speed on solar panel temperature.
ANSYS Fluent will be used to study through a 2D analysis, then progressively through 3D analysis how specific morphologies and types of the ground underneath the panels can enhance the cooling effect of wind speed.
The work will include preliminary experiments in a wind tunnel.
There is the option of PhD progression after successful completion of this MSc by research.
Informal project related enquiries about the post can be made by emailing:
Please quote the reference number NatVentPV on the application form.
Project title: Development of a Small-Scale Electromagnetic Separator – Masters by Research
Reference number: RS/25/01
Applications are invited for a Masters by Research (MRes) studentship in the Centre for Waste Management, within the School of Engineering and Computing.
The studentship is tenable for 12 months full time [subject to satisfactory progress] and will start in August 2025.
All costs associated with the programme are covered by funding.
The successful candidate will be paid a stipend of £20,780 pa.
The research project will commence 1 August 2025.
The research project is funded by Universal Atmosphere Processing with the aim of building and assessing of a bench-scale Electromagnetic Plasma Separator (EMPS) prototype.
The project will evaluate separation efficiency of the gas ionisation.
Universal Atmosphere Processing develop groundbreaking technologies which transform atmospheric gas into separate streams.
By selectively extracting greenhouse gases and others into valuable resources.
The bench-scale EMPS system will be used as a stepping stone towards a pilot scale system.
The research will investigate core principles, operating parameters and performance bottlenecks.
The MRes will include the construction of a bench-scale EMPS system.
The MRes postgraduate will use expand their skill set in the use of instrumentation, data acquisition and safety protocols.
The required outputs of the research will be the following:
The project will help UPS identify efficiency rates, efficacy, energy use, scalability and practical design insights of their proposed system.
This is a great opportunity for the right candidate to carry out research in a real-world application, enhancing their skill set and experience.
Informal project related enquiries about the post can be made by email to Professor Karl S Williams
Please quote the Studentship reference number RS/25/01 on the application form.
Closing Date: 6 July 2025
Proposed Interview Dates: 8 July 2025
Please note: The funding of fees and the stipend is open to UK students.
The difference in tuition fees between a UK and overseas student is not covered under this offer.
Application form
Interview
The North West Social Science Doctoral Training Partnership is one of fourteen DTPs in the UK, created by the Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC) .
The NWSSDTP comprises the Universities of Liverpool, Keele, Lancaster, Manchester, and Central Lancashire, and provides Master’s and PhD students with access to funding and quality research training in social science disciplines.
You will have access to research expertise across the partners.
You can take advantage of a variety of study in social sciences, as well as in subjects where scientists are collaborating with colleagues from other disciplines such as medicine and the arts.
The NWSSDTP welcome applications for full-time and part-time study across all the constituent pathways and institutions.
Funding is available at the University of Central Lancashire for the following subject pathways:
More information can be found on the ‘ How to Apply ’ webpage.
The 2025 Standard Studentship competition has now closed.
Applications for the 2026 competition will re-open later in the year.
Please contact us if you have any queries.
We established our Doctoral Training Centre (DTC) for industry collaboration in 2022.
The DTC supports fully-funded studentships across a broad range of subject domains.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/research/udit-tiwari:
When Udit Tiwari realised that he felt energised in an academic environment and that doing research gave him a sense of joy, he made the decision to study a PhD in Physics at the University of Central Lancashire.
Studying for a PhD will also enable Udit to pursue his dream career as a Researcher and as an Academic.
Talking about his PhD experience, Udit said: “The University provides a very supportive environment for research.
I particularly enjoy working here because of the wonderful research community and the friendly academic staff.
The University also has a good inter-departmental connectivity which is very helpful in making intra-university connections and collaborations for inter-disciplinary research.”
When asked about the value of Udit’s research, PhD Supervisor, Dr Karen Syres , commented: “The title of Udit’s PhD project is ‘Probing Electron Transport and Nanoscale Behaviour in Perovskite Solar Cells.’ The aim of his project is to understand the link between the efficiency of solar cells and the chemistry at the interfaces of the materials involved.”
She continued: “His research is contributing new insights into the properties of these materials and will support the development of more efficient, long-lasting and lower cost solar panels for domestic or industrial use.
His research is thereby contributing to the delivery of clean energy for the future and the net zero agenda.”
Reflecting on what a typical day looks like, Udit explained: “I could be in the lab doing my experimental work on a certain week and might be presenting my work in a conference in a different time zone the following week and that’s what makes it so exciting for me.
This gives me a chance to travel, meet other researchers and make valuable connections.
It helps me develop a sense of independence which I think is really helpful in my overall personality development.”
Udit has access to a range of facilities and equipment, such as, the Experimental Chemistry Laboratory, X- ray Diffractometer and Scanning Electron Microscopy in the Analytical Suite and the state-of-the-art Scanning Tunnelling Microscopy in the Nanophysics laboratory .
Talking about how these facilities have benefitted his research, Udit said: “The availability and the ease of access to such advanced techniques means that almost all the work can be executed within the University without having to go through the hassle of applying for experimental time elsewhere.”
" If you have a hunger for research and you enjoy a more independent style of working then you might be good fit for a postgraduate research degree programme.
In terms of living in Preston, Udit is having a great experience.
He said: “The people here are warm and welcoming.
The city has a lot of beautiful parks and is very multicultural.
You can never be stuck for food options in Preston!”
When asked about what advice he would give to anyone considering a postgraduate research degree, Udit added: “If you have a hunger for research and you enjoy a more independent style of working then you might be a good fit for a postgraduate research degree programme.
Always remember, no one expects you to know everything!
Ask all the questions, all the time!”

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/research/jianyu-zhao:
With an interest in research and a desire to understand the principles behind things, Jianyu Zhao chose to study a PhD at the University of Central Lancashire.
Currently, Jianyu is in the final year of his PhD studies and his PhD supervisor, Professor Bogdan Matuszewski had the following to say about Jianyu’s research: “For his project, entitled ‘Deep Models for Objects Real-Time Characterization and Manipulation’, he is investigating and developing new, state-of-the-art computational methods for describing objects based on their appearance in images and videos.”
Bogdan continued: “We as humans, can characterise objects we see; for example, in terms of their weight, brittleness, surface finish, geometry, position and orientation, so we can grasp and handle them safely.
We can do all these things in an instant, apparently without thinking.
Replicating such functionality of a vision system on machines is extremely difficult, and yet essential for applications in robotics or augmented reality.
Jianyu’s research is focused on making such things possible.”
The support that the School of Engineering and Computing provides for research students is what Jianyu enjoyed most about his research at the University.
Alongside this, Jianyu has benefitted from the facilities and equipment available at the University, and said: “I can use the gym to exercise which helps me clear my mind.
In the lab, I can access a very powerful server that helps me to accelerate my experiments.”
" Preston is a great place to study for its atmosphere, convenient transportation, and good infrastructure.
A typical day for Jianyu usually consists of reading literature in the morning, programming in the afternoon and in the evening he will either continue programming or read until night.
When asked what he enjoys most about Preston, Jianyu said: “Preston is a great place to study for its atmosphere, convenient transportation, and good infrastructure.
It is also very convenient to live here, there are many restaurants and supermarkets that can meet daily needs.” When asked what advice he would give to someone who would like to do a postgraduate research degree, Jianyu commented: “First you have to like doing research, and you have to focus on it, this is a big commitment.
If you would like to do research, I would advise you to do it at the University of Central Lancashire because the University provides a lot of resources for postgraduate research students.”

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/research/elisa-pierella:
PhD student, Elisa Pierella, was fascinated by the subject of microbiology and how bacteria can contribute to health and disease, which encouraged her to study at the University of Central Lancashire.
With an interest in microbiology, Elisa Pierella chose to pursue a PhD focused on microbiology.
Previously, Elisa studied BA (Hons) Nutrition Biology and a master’s in Biological Sciences at the University of Camerino in Italy.
Talking about her subject choice, Elisa said: “Microbiology is very fascinating especially when we see that humans are actually super organisms.
We’ve got more bacterial cells than human cells, and these bacterial cells can really contribute to our health and wellbeing.”
Gaining an insight on the process of bacterial species population is what Elisa enjoys most about her research at the University.
She said: “I think this is a valuable step in the process of understanding how bacteria contribute to the switch between health, disease and back into health.”
When asked about what a typical day looks like, Elisa commented: “Every day is never the same and this is part of the joy.
She continued: “I set up bacterial co-cultural competition experiments mixing together a couple of bacterial strains and let them fight it off over time to see who prevails.
All experiments are preceded by in silico work, planning the experiment and then followed up by data processing and analysis.
The work is a mix of lab and bench-based work.
This can be over a few hours or days depending on the experiments I am running.”
" For anyone thinking of doing a PhD I would say plan in advance and be ready for the unexpected.
Don’t be afraid to do something new and to learn something new every day and to challenge yourself.
Reflecting on how the facilities have benefitted her learning, Elisa said: “The University campus is a real campus, with all the Schools and Faculties in the same area, welcoming social spaces and comfortable and flexible study spaces, which help me to find the motivation to work and study.
Moreover, well-equipped laboratories and talented staff are essential for undertaking my research.”
Recently, Elisa was the People’s choice winner at the University’s 3 Minute Thesis (3MT) June 2022 competition hosted by the Graduate Research School .
Elisa presentation was titled ‘The Microbiota, the ever-changing enemy within us.’
Studying in the UK is a different experience for Elisa who completed her last two degrees in Italy.
Reflecting on what she loves about Preston, Elisa said: “Preston is a reasonably sized town, full of peaceful green places, with vibrant pubs.
Moreover, it is characterised by an international and diverse accepting environment that makes it a perfect place to stay.”
The future is full of opportunities for Elisa once she graduates.
She said: “I believe that the PhD opens you to a wide range of downstream opportunities, which I would like to scrutinise in detail before taking my following step...but research will be definitely part of it.”
When asked about what advice she would give to anyone who’d like to pursue a PhD and study their subject of interest, Elisa said: “For anyone thinking of doing a PhD I would say plan in advance and be ready for the unexpected.
Don’t be afraid to do something new and to learn something new every day and to challenge yourself.”

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/student-voice/week-in-life-mres-student:
MSc/PGDip/PGCert Forensic Anthropology student, Tom, shares a week in the life as a student.
Perhaps the most daunting thing when I started my Master of Research in Forensic Anthropology was the complete lack of a timetable.
It was odd going from an undergraduate course where I would be in for between 10 and 17 hours a week of scheduled lecture and lab time.
There was something quite rewarding to this, as I realised that my time was my own and I was responsible for getting everything sorted.
I did my best to work to a 09:30 to 17:30, Monday to Friday schedule.
This worked well with my body clock and made getting around UCLan less hectic.
I made the effort to not work in the evening and if I did, it would only be for an hour or so to tidy up some loose ends.
I also made it a rule from day one that I would not do anything MRes related over the weekend, so I had time away from it.
If I did not follow these rules, then I will get far too carried away with my work and have no time for myself.
My weeks were undeniably flexible, how much research-based work I would have in a week varied heavily depending on what stage of research I was at.
An example of my research included using 3D microscopy to create renders of any created cut marks.
My weeks were initially filled with reading through literature and submitting ethics and risk assessments.
This then quickly transitioned into practical work and analysis.
This period was particularly important to time manage, as I would have to share lab equipment with other people.
The latter end of my MRes jumped to writing up my thesis and prepping for my VIVA examination.
Despite the flexibility, there were still parts of my week that remained relatively consistent.
Monday mornings were always planning out what I wanted to accomplish over the next week.
Setting my intentions from the start allowed me to plan out how long tasks would take and keep my motivation high, as I had continual goals to work towards.
My free schedule allowed me to work as a teaching assistant for undergraduate labs for four hours on a Tuesday and Thursday.
I also had the opportunity to work as a student ambassador, though these shifts would alter throughout the year.
I found these additional tasks during my week helped me to break up my MRes and I was able to stay focused.
Perhaps the most important event of the week was my Friday afternoon meeting with my supervisor team.
This was a few hours every week where we would see how I have progressed; read through anything I had written and for me to get answers to any questions.
They would also provide feedback and guidance on any work I had submitted in the previous week.
After my meeting with my supervisors, I would type up any meeting notes and wrap up any unfinished business from the week to make sure that I could shut off from my work over the weekend and have a fresh start next Monday.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/postgraduate-research/student-profiles:
View the academic profiles of our current postgraduate research students.
Use the 'school' filter below or search by keyword.
Our postgraduate research students are encouraged to have a profile displayed here as a digital footprint showcasing their research project and expertise.
Inclusion on this page is on an opt-in basis, so the profiles represent a subset of all registered postgraduate research students.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/search:
Loading search results...

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/centres/social-cpd:
We provide Continuing Professional Development (CPD) and Continuing Education (CE) for social work and social care practitioners in the UK.
All of our courses are taught by subject experts and professional practitioners.
Our unique and flexible approach to learning enables you to access individual CPD events and modules whilst building credits towards a target award.
We offer a wide range of CPD opportunities with particular expertise in:
If you have any enquiries, please contact the team on 01772 894361 or email Social Work CPD
We work in line with both the British Association of Social Workers (BASW) and Social Work profession regulators Code of Ethics.
In February 2018 the Centre was one of the first organisations to be awarded accreditation under the BASW CPD Provider Accreditation Scheme.
The scheme provides a marker of excellence in the delivery of professional development and training.
All our CPD has the BASW Code of Ethics at the heart of its delivery.
A range of modules are available to enhance your knowledge, develop skills and further your CPD and Continuing Education.
The following modules can be completed individually or can be combined to allow you to work towards the Postgraduate Certificate in Professional Development & Practice.
Please contact the team to discuss your options, the best combination of modules and course availability :
We offer many professional courses.
Please follow the links below to find out more information about these including; content, module options, learning environment and assessment, entry requirements and application instructions.
For courses with optional modules and flexible intakes, we can discuss the best options for you at any time in the process.
We will consider Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) for the modules on all Centre for CPD courses.
The Centre is also able to offer onsite and bespoke training in many areas of practice, contemporary themes and theory, research and policy.
We have a large staff team of academics and researchers and therefore have contemporary expertise in social work and social care to deliver high quality bespoke training to meet workforce training needs where and when you need it.
Please ask us about your specific needs.
Some examples of training topics we have recently provided include:
We also provide exclusive delivery of certain modules, which can be delivered at your premises or the University’s Preston or Burnley campuses, using face-to-face, online and blended learning.
For more details, please email Social Work CPD .

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/schools/health-social-work-sport/pqf:
Our Post-Qualifying Framework (PQF) offers health and social care practitioners an opportunity to improve patient care through personal, professional and academic development.
You can select from a comprehensive and contemporary range of modules that fit with your personal development and career plans, either on a module-by-module basis, or as part of a planned programme to eventually achieve a degree.
Credits from modules can be used to gain the BSc (Hons) Professional Practice qualification.
For further information email the team .

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/centres/worldwise:
The Worldwise Centre is an international hub at the heart of the University.
It is open year-round and offers advice and support to anybody interested in world languages and cultures.
We offer a range of opportunities to learn another language, improve your knowledge about world cultures and gain experience via paid internships.
Our facilities, resources, courses, and events are available to all students, staff and the general public
Looking to explore new languages, discover different cultures, or meet people from around the world?
The Worldwise Centre, located on the first floor of the Adelphi Building, is the perfect place to do just that.
We offer a wide range of resources to support language learning and intercultural understanding.
This includes, books, easy readers, international literature, movies and other digital material.
The Worldwise Centre is a welcoming space where you can connect with others.
You can make friends with speakers of different languages in a relaxed and friendly environment.
We also host a variety of exciting events throughout the year.
These include cultural celebrations, film festivals and guest talks.
Whether you’re passionate about languages or just want to experience something new, we invite you to get involved and be part of our diverse community.
Learning a language opens up a world of possibilities, whether you want to enhance your CV, communicate with confidence while travelling or meet new people.
We believe that language learning is for everyone, and anyone should be able to access it in a way that suits them.
That is why the part-time language courses are open to all; students, staff and members of the public.
Classes are available in various formats (semester or year-long) and levels.
The part-time language programme is currently available in eight different languages.
All languages are available at beginners’ level (except English) with the more popular languages available at higher levels.
Visit our Applied Languages Certificate page for the timetables and more information.
To learn more about our taught language courses, registration process, and opportunities to enhance your language skills, visit our dedicated Applied Languages Certificate page .
Study at your own pace with our resources and interactive language learning tools.
We offer a self-study programme in 24 different languages using Rosetta Stone software.
This course is not formally assessed.
However, you will receive an achievement certificate and a progress report upon completing each level.
The Centre provides a comfortable place to make friends.
In our welcoming environment you can meet with speakers of different languages.
View the 360 tour to explore the Centre’s facilities.
Our conversation classes offer a unique opportunity for all language students to practice their speaking skills and have fun via interactive, real-life based scenarios.
They take place weekly during term-time and are facilitated by native-speaking language assistants.
They are ideal for immersing into a different culture and making new friends along the way.
For all the latest updates, please contact Worldwise or join the Worldwise Centre on Microsoft Teams .
As a Language Assistant, you’ll help run Conversation Classes and support students in improving their spoken language skills.
We’re looking for interns fluent in various languages to bring their unique cultural knowledge and communication skills to the role.
This is your chance to gain valuable work experience in an international team and grow personally and professionally.
If you are interested in these paid internships, contact Worldwise.
E: worldwise@uclan.ac.uk
T: +44 (0)1772 893155

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/courses:
Search for your course below.
You can also explore our subjects, or view all courses on our A-Z listings.
Call: +44 (0)1772 892400
Email: Course Enquiries Team

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/student-life/preston:
Wondering what life in Preston is like?
This guide to Preston will help you make the most of our incredible city.
Preston was named as the best city in the North West (Good Growth Index, 2023).
There has been an increase in housing and jobs, which is good news for students.
Our on campus accommodation is almost half the national average, starting at £87 per week.
That means you've got more money to spend on the things you love.
Just some of the reasons many students choose to live in Preston after they graduate.
When you're not studying, there are lots of exciting things to do in Preston.
Head into town and browse the shops - we have all your high street favourites, plus independent local businesses.
Feeling hungry?
Preston is a foodie's paradise, with cuisines from around the world.
And when night falls, you can enjoy a drink at one of Preston's many bars and clubs.
#MyPreston - Food
It's easy to get around Preston.
All of our University accommodation is just a short walk away from campus, so you can enjoy a morning lie-in.
Then it's just a 10-minute walk from campus into the town centre, where you'll find plenty of shops, bars and restaurants.
Preston has excellent transport links.
You can travel to Manchester, Liverpool or Blackpool in under an hour on the train.
It's also just over two hours to London or Glasgow by train.
Many of our students live at home and commute to campus for their studies.
If you're thinking about doing the same, we have lots of information that might help.
Living in Preston gives you an unforgettable student experience.
Enjoy a lively social life with a choice of restaurants, pubs and bars.
It has a big city vibe, but is small enough to feel like home.
And best of all, you can live here without breaking the bank - Preston is the most affordable student city (The Times, 2023).

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/subjects/accounting-and-finance:
Want to become a Chartered Accountant or use financial expertise to drive strategic business decisions?
Our BA (Hons) Accounting and Finance degree is accredited by ICAEW, CIMA and ACCA.
Prefer a finance-related role without formal body exams?
Study our BA (Hons) Accounting and Financial Studies and get relevant knowledge and skills.
Studying with us will sharpen your analytical skills and broaden your thinking.
You'll be prepared for careers in audit, tax, and accountancy, as well as financial roles across a wide range of organisations.
We also offer a range of postgraduate courses to qualify as a Chartered Accountant.
These are perfect for professionals already in the field who want to enhance their skills and knowledge to a master’s level.
BA (Hons) Accounting and Finance student Matt gained an extra qualification in Sage 50.
And went on a year-long placement with PricewaterhouseCoopers in Bristol.
This will help him achieve his ambition of becoming a Chartered Accountant for a top firm.
We encourage you to have ambitions that extend beyond any board room and make a positive impact on more than the bottom line.
When you study with us you’ll experience real success by achieving real results in the real world.
Many graduates work in a variety of businesses within their finance departments.
Some graduates establish their own accounting companies, whilst others go on to study our MSc Financial Investigation .
Read our guide on how to become an accountant .
Studying accounting and finance could lead to a career as a:
Our Entrepreneurs in Residence bring you real-world expertise and entrepreneurial practice.
They contribute to teaching, learning and employability.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/subjects/aerospace-engineering:
You'll have access to cutting-edge facilities at our £35m Engineering Innovation Centre.
Including immersive and desktop flight simulators, additive manufacturing, intelligent systems and composites workshops.
Apply your knowledge to analyse and design flying vehicles.
You’ll also complete a research project which will allow you to work creatively on an aerospace-related subject.
You'll also gain teamwork and development experience through a collaborative design project.
You’ll have access to cutting-edge software tools, flight simulators – including both immersive as well as desktop.
Be prepared to work with a range of vehicles and use different types for design, analysis, simulation and test and get involved with unmanned air vehicles (UAVs) for civil applications and learn the principles of flight testing.
Our courses have been designed to comply with the educational requirements published by the UK Engineering Council, the Royal Aeronautical Society and the Institute of Mechanical Engineers meaning you’ll graduate industry ready.
Discover more at @UCLanEng
Discover our Aerospace Engineering courses
Graduate with a well-rounded education in aerospace engineering, preparing you for a wide range of career options.
Bring ideas from concept to flight in various sectors, including aerospace, space, defence, automotive, biotechnology, computing, electronics, energy, and manufacturing.
Future careers in aerospace engineering

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/subjects/architecture:
We aim to provoke debate, encourage diversity and develop advances in the architecture profession.
We place particular emphasis on conservation, sustainability and environmental issues.
As an architecture student, you'll be developed from the start of your professional journey to full accreditation.
We'll help you go onto specialist focus such as the challenges and management of historic buildings.
We offer a studio experience supported by professional staff who are visible, accessible and available.
They will work with you and are invested in your development and progress on your course.
You’ll benefit from studios, workshops and CAD suites which are among the best in the UK.
Plus dedicated resources and work and study space.
There are also numerous opportunities for site field trips at local, national and international sites.
Our academic team have expertise that covers all facets of the discipline and are involved in a level of research related to their associated interests.
They also teach and publish across the subject area and in some cases, members of the team have run practices.
Our academic team have also been involved in building and designing award-winning architecture projects both in the UK and around the world.
Discover the award-winning creative work produced by our Architecture students.
The degree show features work in a range of mediums by students from the School of Arts & Media and the Grenfell-Baines Institute of Architecture.
Architecture at UCLan – an introduction
As a UCLan architecture student you get the chance to go on a range of trips and visits.
These provide real-life experience and exposure to different architectural styles, designs and practices from across the world.
Following successful progression from the course and a year’s experience in architectural practice, or related field of work, you are able to enter the March Architecture Part II.
Prescribed by the Architects Registration Board (ARB) and Royal Institute of Architects (RIBA) leading to Part II recognition.
This will allow you to proceed on a path to become a registered architect and ARB member.
Studying architecture could lead to a future career as a:

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/subjects/art-design-and-fashion:
Get tailored advice from a tutor in a way that suits you.
Advice is available for those applying for creative arts and design courses.
Not all courses need a portfolio, please see individual course pages for details.
Creativity Matters – Alumni Stories: Fashion
The creative industry makes a significant contribution to the UK economy and new jobs in the industry are on the up.
At UCLan, you’ll be in the heart of the UK’s biggest regional advertising sector.
As well as being close to creative hubs like Manchester and Liverpool.
The UK has the largest games development sector in Europe.
Putting you in the perfect place to establish your future career in the creative sector.
Future careers in art, design and fashion:
When you study here you'll have access to great services, such as the Student Enterprise Hub.
The Student Enterprise Hub gives you the unique opportunity to work on live briefs set by a range of companies in the North West and beyond.
You'll also have access to our Propeller service .
Here we'll help you start up your own business through one-to-one mentoring, masterclasses and possible access to funding.
With creative students three times more likely to start up a business after graduating - this is an excellent way of getting ahead of the game.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/subjects/astronomy:
We offer an exciting online learning programme of university courses and degrees in astronomy, cosmology, astrobiology and a wide range of other fascinating subjects.
Our entry point certificates are tailored for those with no prior knowledge of astronomy.
Our full range of advanced courses all the way up to a degree will suit students looking for a further challenge.
Our BSc (Hons) Astronomy is recognised by the Institute of Physics .
You will develop the full range of scientific skills through experimental and observational work undertaken at a distance, library research skills and report writing.
Whatever the length and mode of your studies – an astronomy qualification can pave the way to a range of careers options.
You could work in anything from education or an observatory to science communication and public outreach.
All our courses include detailed course notes, self-test exercises and assessments.
Study and tutorial support is provided via email, telephone and online.
Our astronomy certificates are an ideal place to begin your studies and astronomy education as they require no prior knowledge of the subject.
Each is a free-standing Certificate at HE Level 4 (Year 1 undergraduate level) allowing you to develop your fascination with your chosen subject.
When returning to astronomy education, we normally advise studying only one module in the first year of your astronomy course.
We judge each application on its merits to ensure that students can benefit from our courses.
You will require GCSE Grade C in maths and English or equivalent to study these astronomy courses.
The courses take a quantitative scientific approach and you will be using maths to solve problems from the outset.
Students who have completed some modules as free-standing Certificates may like to take their astronomy studies further.
We offers a range of awards from the Certificate of Higher Education in Astronomy to a full 18-module BSc (Hons) in Astronomy.
All of these awards require you to have studied certain pre-requisite modules first.
All are flexible in duration and allow you to choose modules from UCLan or appropriate credit-bearing modules from other institutes by a system of recognition of prior learning.
Our courses enable exploration of passions and enhance careers with scientific skills.
While many study the subject to indulge a personal interest, it’s also helped enhance professional prospects.
For many of our graduates, this course has been a foundation to build upon with further study at postgraduate level.
For example, one of our graduates went on to achieve a master’s degree before working on a PhD in Astronomy in South Africa.
Studying Astronomy could lead to a career as a:
Apply to study one of our courses and take the next step towards your future career.
When you're ready to apply, read our guidance to help you apply to university.
The Alston Observatory is the purpose-built teaching and public outreach facility of the Jeremiah Horrocks Institute including a teaching room with Discovery Dome planetarium system.
Our centrepiece is the Moses Holden Telescope, a 70 cm diameter state-of-the-art robotic telescope used for both undergraduate teaching and to encourage public engagement in science.
On-campus and online learning students use its observations for final year projects.
All the courses run for the full academic year from approximately mid-September to mid-May.
We do not offer multiple start dates.
The Certificates in Astronomy and Cosmology run every year.
The Certificate in Astrobiology alternates with the Certificate in Sun, Earth and Climate.
A course is the name of the award, such as the Certificate in Cosmology or the BSc (Hons) in Astronomy.
Each course must have a prescribed number modules - 1 in the case of a Certificate and 18 for the BSc (Hons).
For example, the Certificate in Astronomy consists of the single module AA1051, Introduction to Astronomy.
Each entry-level course is a certificate consisting of a single 20 credit module.
On average you should expect to spend about 200 hours on each module over the duration of the academic year.
This is about four to six hours per week.
The fees are set on a per-module basis but do not depend on where you live or your nationality.
The module fee increases slightly from year to year, but once you are registered for a particular course, your module fee is fixed for its duration.
Please check individual course pages for the fees.
The entry-level courses (such as Certificate in Astronomy) require maths at GCSE grade C or equivalent qualification.
The modules assume general 'high-school maths' such as:
If you have not studied for some time, you may like to refresh your knowledge.
If you do not have a formal maths qualification you should contact the Course Leader for advice.
Applications for all the courses are through our online application system .
No course applications are handled by UCAS as they are part-time online learning courses.
The courses are delivered online via the university’s virtual learning environment.
Each module has its own space with its learning materials, discussion forums and assessments.
You can ask questions to your tutor by posting to the forum, sending an email or attending an online classroom session, run as a Teams meeting.
Each module has its own detailed schedule for when you should be studying particular sections of the materials, when the optional online classrooms are and when the assessments are to be submitted.
Otherwise, you manage your own time to study when it bests suits you.
The typical module has three assessments paced over the year.
You are given at least six weeks to prepare your work on your computer and then upload it online by the deadline.
The entry-level modules have two question sheets containing a mixture of maths-based problems and discursive questions.
The third assessment may be an experimental report based on data supplied by the university, or a researched essay.
Higher-level modules tend to have more challenging assessments that may be more open-ended or involve collaborating with other students.
The BSc culminates in the dissertation module where students explore an astronomy topic in depth under the individual supervision of a member of staff.
None of the modules requires you to own a telescope.
However, we run an optional observatory weekend at our Alston Observatory, subject to demand.
Weather permitting, this includes the opportunity to use our telescopes.
There is a separate fee for the Alston weekend.
Apart from the online forums and online classrooms, we offer an optional observatory weekend at Alston Observatory to students on the certificate courses.
This includes opportunities to talk to the staff about the learning materials and to discuss astronomy in general with our staff and other students.
In addition, we attend science fairs, such as Astrofest in Kensington, and are delighted to see our current students.
In August new students are given access to induction materials online, with links to the module reading list, module handbook etc.
You can start looking around, meeting other students on the welcome forums and doing the suggested preliminary reading from the recommended textbook.
At the beginning of Welcome Week, all students receive a welcome email and the learning materials are released.
Teaching starts the following week, which is usually the last full week of September.
In most modules, the learning materials are supplemented by a recommended textbook.
Wherever possible, the recommended textbook is an eBook, available free online via the UCLan library.
Otherwise, you are encouraged to buy the recommended textbook yourself.
Details are included in the induction information emailed to you in September.
If you want to defer your offer to the following academic year, you should inform our Admissions Team as soon as possible after receiving your offer.
If you need to interrupt or withdraw after the course starts (defined as the beginning of Welcome Week), you can do so.
The proportion of the module fee that is charged depends on when you interrupt or withdraw.
See our fees policy for details.
Most of our online learning astronomy students are many years post full-time education, so entry based on A Level results is not always appropriate.
You should start by studying the Certificate in Astronomy .
This is the compulsory module AA1051 Introduction to Astronomy  that forms part of the BSc.
This will enable you to check that the level and style of study are suitable for you before making a long-term commitment.
When you have completed two individual certificates, you can enrol on the six module award the Certificate of Higher Education.
When that is complete you can enrol on the BSc.
All modules that you study will be carried forward to your new award.
This process allows you maximum flexibility before making a long-term commitment to enrol on the BSc.
If you are within two years of having completed your A Levels, then you should check the A Level entry requirements on the BSc (Hons) Astronomy course page and can apply directly for the online learning undergraduate course.
This depends on how many modules you choose to study each year.
If you average three modules a year, you will complete the 18 modules of the BSc within six years.
Most students take considerably longer, typically 8-10 years.
Most modules run alternate years according to a schedule, so you will need to plan your studies carefully with the advice of the course team as you progress from year to year.
The degree is designed to maximise the amount of astronomy studied, especially in the early years.
Topics in physics are covered within astronomy modules as they are needed, except for one module at Level 4 and another at Level 6 which have a strong physics content.
Similarly, topics in maths (and statistics) are introduced in the modules as needed.
The approach taken in the BSc (Hons) Astronomy contrasts with that of a traditional on-campus astrophysics degree which may consist of at least two-thirds physics and mathematics.
The BSc Astronomy and Cert HE Astronomy are on Student Finance England’s list of approved awards.
Student Finance England set the criteria and decide whether an individual loan application is approved.
To be eligible, you must be studying at least 25% full-time equivalent (30 credits) within the same award.
In practice, you need to be studying at least two 20 credit modules per year to qualify.
Students on Certificate courses are therefore not eligible for a student loan from Student Finance England.
If you are reliant on receiving a student loan you are advised to discuss it with the course leader during the application process.
We normally recommend that students start with one or possibly two modules.
Experience has shown that this is what people with a normal level of work and domestic commitments can manage comfortably.
As you demonstrate your ability to complete modules successfully, you may like to increase your workload.
The courses are defined as part-time courses, setting an absolute limit of four modules per year.
The module Introduction to Astronomy is a Level 4 undergraduate course.
The syllabus is wider than the GCSE, and while many of the subjects will be familiar, you will study them in much greater depth.
In addition, the assessment questions we ask and the tasks we set are much more demanding than GCSE level.
This module covers the maths and physics necessary for higher-level study and is a core component of the BSc in Astronomy.
It is not necessary to take this module before starting on Level 5 modules but it must be completed before doing any Level 6 modules.
If you only intend to take the Cert HE, the module Energy, Matter and the Universe is optional.
Our Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) scheme allows you to incorporate prior study at levels 4 and 5 into our awards.
RPL is possible for the CertHE or BSc Astronomy, but not for single module certificate courses.
Study at other universities (e.g.
Open University and University College London) will be considered on a case-by-case basis, to ensure suitable module match and suitability to your overall profile.
RPL can only be applied once you are enrolled on an appropriate course, typically in November or December each year.
If you would like an estimate of what RPL you would be offered, you should email the Course Leader sending details of your prior study.
There is no body accrediting courses of this sort in astronomy.
The BSc is recognised by the UK's Institute of Physics.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/subjects/audiology:
Real-World Learning plays an important part in our audiology degree programmes.
You'll undertake workplace learning and/or specialised placement throughout.
We also have continuing professional development (CPD) modules available.
These are at postgraduate level for professionals in the field of hearing, balance or other associated areas.
If you complete the Hearing Aid Audiology, FdSc you'll be able to apply to join the Health and Care Professionals Council (HCPC).
This allows you to become a registered Hearing Aid Dispenser.
Please note that this programme is subject to HCCP accreditation.
The FdSc Hearing Aid Audiology also provides you with generic transferable skills such as team work and problem solving, which will be valuable should you wish to work in other allied health care professions.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/subjects/biosciences:
Some courses are accredited and/or approved by professional bodies including the Institute of Biomedical Science; Health and Care Professions Council; and the National School of Healthcare Science as part of NHS England.
You will have access to industry-standard facilities including analytical suite, scanning electron microscopes, molecular biology laboratories and an NHS-standard biomedical science lab.
Our Healthcare Science programme guarantees 50 weeks of NHS pathology placements.
Pharmacology students have attended an internationally renowned Pharmacology Conference and gained complimentary student membership of the British Pharmacological Society.
Our postgraduate programmes are delivered using cutting-edge lectures, workshops and tutorials, providing the qualifications, skills and knowledge to develop your career in a specialist field.
Biosciences graduates could go on to work in diagnostic and pathology laboratories or work in areas such as toxicology.
Others may develop careers in the pharmaceutical industry.
All programmes could lead on to postgraduate study.
You could also pursue further studies in dentistry or medicine.
Studying Biosciences could lead to a career as a:

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/subjects/bsl-and-deaf-studies:
British Sign Language (BSL), sign linguistics, and deaf studies at the University of Central Lancashire have long been recognised for their world-leading research.
The programmes also boast continuous top student satisfaction rates and pioneering work on the development of employability skills.
Studying with us means that you can benefit from us as the leading Higher Educational Institution in the UK for the training of BSL-English interpreters.
You can study at both undergraduate and postgraduate level, with the courses covering all aspects of deafness as a social and cultural phenomenon.
You can to develop a fluency in British Sign Language and also progress with your professional career as a BSL interpreter.
There are lots of modules available to choose from, allowing you to study a course that meets your individual interests and career goals.
BA (Hons) British Sign Language and Deaf Studies
SignTeach Online was a European project of which our BSL and Deaf Studies Team were the Lead Partner.
This project was funded by the Erasmus+ program and involves seven partners from seven EU countries.
SignTeach Online is both developed and intended for sign language teachers.
SignTeach Online focuses on the challenges and successes of transitioning to online sign language teaching during the COVID-19 pandemic.
The project aims to explore these experiences through videos, interviews, podcasts, and research.
Updates and discussions are available on the project's Facebook page, where educators can share questions and insights about online sign language teaching.
The Deaf Museums Project is an Erasmus+ Project, funded by the EU.
We are a consortium of people from seven organisations in six European countries.
We believe it's important to preserve, protect and display Deaf Heritage and Deaf History.
This helps us to understand Deaf people’s lives, culture, and world.
Our Deaf Museums website shows the exhibitions created by the project partners.
It holds vast resources about Deaf museums and explains what we did and why we did it.
We have also produced a basic course in museum skills: a ‘cookbook’ for people who want to help preserve the Deaf Heritage.
Our exhibition is both a physical and an online exhibition.
It covers three overarching themes Deaf Access, Deaf Workplace and Deaf Space.
The exhibition looks across three timelines of the past, present and future.
As we explore what life used to be like for Deaf people, what it is like now and what it might look like in the future.
Graduates from our undergraduate BSL and Deaf Studies programmes enter a variety of careers:
Successful graduates from our postgraduate course will be eligible to register and work as Professional British Sign Language interpreters.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/subjects/business-and-management:
Our business and management courses prepare you for the real world of business.
You'll develop the skills you need to become an effective leader.
Explore new ideas and fresh ways of thinking.
We offer a wide selection of programmes in business, management and human resource management.
Learn from internationally renowned experts with extensive industry experience.
Develop a critical understanding of wider society and how outside developments affect organisations.
You'll have the opportunity to gain work experience and paid placements with businesses.
Interested in starting your own business?
You’ll be able to take advantage of our on-campus Propeller team, supporting you to become the latest entrepreneur.
Beyond Business – Meet Chantelle
There are lots of opportunities for our graduates.
Some of our graduates go onto graduate schemes within international organisations.
Others find roles as managers and team leaders.
Others use the skills, knowledge and links they have gained to start their own businesses.
Studying business and management could lead to these future careers:

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/subjects/chemistry:
We combine essential chemistry theory with specialist topics.
These cover drug design and development, nanotechnology and environmental and sustainable chemistry.
You'll get a distinct advantage when planning your future career in chemical sciences.
By studying chemistry at university you'll be able to advance your knowledge and access our fantastic lab facilities.
Our specialist equipment will help you gain experience in the latest techniques.
You'll have access to:
With world-class teaching and learning facilities, we believe your time studying chemistry with us will be exceptional.
Graduates will understand the evolving systems and processes the chemical industry is adopting.
Discover our Chemistry courses
Typical careers paths include chemical, pharmaceutical and food and drink industries.
Other possible careers include nanotechnology, environmental science, forensic science, biotechnology and teaching.
You’ll learn transferable skills, so we also have graduates working in accountancy, finance, law and even publishing.
Typical careers after studying a chemistry degree include:

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/subjects/civil-engineering:
Founded with strong industry links, our civil engineering courses are different in respect of our unique location, situated in a region which boasts a wide range of cutting-edge engineering and technological-advanced organisations.
You’ll be taught by research-informed teaching staff and will benefit from state-of- the-art laboratories and digital teaching and learning facilities, as well as the new £35 million Engineering Innovation Centre.
You can practice in the broad area of civil engineering or specialise either as a structural engineer, environmental engineer, or geotechnical engineer.
You’ll be equipped with the principles and concepts of engineering, underpinned by a sound knowledge and understanding of scientific principles.
As a civil engineer you will become part of a dynamic, fast growing industry with the potential to develop your career across the globe.
Our low carbon, funded three night residential field trip to Blencathra focussed on the local geology and environmental issues and how this influences the areas civil engineering.
Students had a go at practical hydrology and measuring urban traffic issues, working towards generating viable solutions.
After graduating, you'll be the new digital pioneers of civil engineering.
You'll use modern methods of solving societal problems.
You will have the skills to work in an eclectic, dynamic environment with many routes to gain employment.
This could be within either the broad area of civil engineering or specialist disciplines.
Some of the careers you could have after completing a civil engineering degree are:

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/subjects/computer-science:
Computing is a part of every day life in our society.
There's a growing demand for individuals with tech skills who can solve problems across every sector.
We'll help you develop the essential skills and creativity you need to thrive in this dynamic, fast-paced field.
We have a range of undergraduate and postgraduate degrees to ensure you're adequately skilled for this growing industry.
Our common computer science modules at the start of your undergraduate study give you the flexibility to transfer to other specialist courses in the second year.
Find your niche in a range of areas, from Computer Science, Games Development, Software Engineering, Network Technology to Cyber Security.
All our undergraduate courses begin with a team challenge; an exciting project that integrates different technical aspects of computer science.
Throughout your studies, you’ll benefit from engagement in competitions and research projects, use specialist laboratories and software, and equip yourself with practical skills and knowledge.
Taught by a passionate team of experienced lecturers, many of whom are still active and influential in the industry.
You’ll be prepared for a career in a rapidly changing subject that, thanks to new ideas, applications, security threats and constantly evolving technology, is a fascinating area to work in.
With a vision to establish Lancashire as an undisputed national leader in cyber, this project will bring unparalleled opportunities for our students.
Romeela Nawaz - BSc (Hons) Forensic Computing
After developing a love for video games at an early age, UCLan Games Development Course Lead Laurent Noel turned his passion into a career from owning his own games studio to inspiring the next generation of developers.
Read about his experiences, advice and thoughts on the industry in our Q&A.
We place a strong emphasis on your employability.
You'll get the opportunity to do a one-year industry-based placement after the completion of your second year.
Most placements are UK-based.
Some students have gone to English-speaking workplaces elsewhere in Europe.
Sometimes they go further afield such as Australia, Japan and the USA.
Placements have included companies such as D3T in Cheshire and Fujitsu in Germany.
Future careers in computer science and software engineering include:

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/subjects/construction-and-surveying:
Construction and surveying have been at the heart of our portfolio of courses since our inception in 1828.
Today’s programmes, drawing upon the industry experience of professionally qualified lecturing staff and boasting graduates who have forged successful careers in the built environment, are as relevant and successful as they have ever been.
All our courses are recognised by professional bodies ensuring the content and delivery is designed to maximise your career potential.
You’ll benefit from working on real-life projects and case studies alongside tutors who have close links with industry and can ensure that you get the skills and current knowledge that employers are looking for.
All our courses offer optional placements in industry, which builds on your academic learning, develops your professional approach, and often leads to successful employment after graduation.
As a UCLan student studying a construction and surveying course you will benefit from a range of trips and visits.
These will allow you to gain a unique perspective on the subject and develop a better understanding of how the industry works in the real world.
We have a proud history of developing industry ready graduates.
Many of them have forged highly successful careers within industry.
Our graduates have secured employment in organisations such as:
You’ll graduate with a specialist skill set that will enable you to carry out a range of duties within the construction industry.
From site-based quantity surveying to estimating and management roles.
Careers in construction and surveying include:

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/subjects/criminology:
Our portfolio of programmes offer a deep insight into theory and practice of Criminology, whilst also providing specialist focus on the areas such as Criminal Justice and Sociology.
By combining the study of Criminology with another specialist area you can develop broader expertise and knowledge enabling you to graduate with a competitive edge in the career marketplace.
Our network of working partnerships in many professional environments provide opportunities to develop real world insights.
Our links include Lancashire Constabulary, Cumbria & Lancashire Community Rehabilitation Company (CRC), The Crown Prosecution Service, Victim Support Lancashire, HM Prison Service, the National Health Service, Equality and Diversity Practitioners, Armed Services, Non-Government Organisations (NGOs), Third Sector Providers, Local Councils, Social Services, Primary, Secondary and Further Education, Social-Enterprise Entrepreneurs, and Multi-faith Communities.
Discover our Advice and Resolution Centre (ARC)
Following further training you may go on to enter the police and prison services.
Or you may wish to move towards the legal processes side of criminology and work in the court services.
There are many roles that need an awareness of criminology.
This includes local and national governmental roles.
You may also want to work for a charity that works with victims of crime or young offenders.
Criminology graduates can also go on to train as social workers or adult guidance workers.
Here you can apply your understanding of people in society on a more one-to-one level.
Some of the careers you can go into after studying criminology are:

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/subjects/dentistry:
We are renowned for the depth of supervised clinical experience students gain during their training.
You will learn clinical skills in one of the most modern phantom head rooms in Europe, equipped with state-of-the-art audio visual equipment.
Our on-site Dental Clinic and links with regional Dental Education Centres (DECs) allow you to gain valuable experience treating real patients.
We encourage cross-course learning.
Students from BDS, Dental Therapy and CDT will all learn alongside each other, training as you will practice in the future, as part of the whole dental team.
The academic, non-clinical teaching on our postgraduate portfolio uses a modern, online delivery model.
Our students come from around the UK so this benefits them with less travel and allows study at a time that is convenient.
Learn about our Postgraduate Dentistry courses
BDS graduates usually become a dental foundation trainee (DF1).
The majority of dentists work in a high street practice or community dental clinics.
If you want to work in a hospital environment and specialise, you can undergo further specialist training.
This could be in orthodontics, paediatric dentistry, restorative dentistry and surgical dentistry.
Continual professional development is vital as dentistry changes all the time.
Read our guide about on how to become a dentist .
Dental Therapists and Clinical Dental Technologists may be eligible to apply for registration with the General Dental Council (GDC).
This means you could work in dentistry as a dental care professional.
Graduates who gain a 2.1 degree can apply for entry to our BDS programme .
After studying a dentistry or dental related degree, you could work as:

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/subjects/education:
A degree in education will provide you with a multitude of transferable skills such as the ability to work and communicate with children, oral and written communication, problem-solving and research and analytic skills.
Our Education degrees are a great stepping stone for those that want to become teachers , and those that are interested in working within education.
You’ll benefit from undertaking an Education degree before a PGCE to gain in-depth insight into education, with the option of combining it with a specialism that interests you.
For those students that are unsure about whether teaching is for them, these degrees provide an excellent insight into what teaching requires – and if you change your mind, you can progress into a wide variety of other roles and demonstrate transferable skills.
Discover our Education courses
You can undertake a PGCE after graduating to qualify as a teacher.
Or you can progress into roles within the government, youth work, police work and social work.
If you're interested in becoming a teacher take a look at our guide.
You might want to consider one of the following careers after studying education:
Teaching is a challenging but rewarding profession, one where you will use your enthusiasm and talents to really make a difference to your students’ lives.
Our courses will equip you to educate and influence your learners and help them fulfil their potential.
Find out more about teacher training at UCLan .

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/subjects/electronic-and-robotic-engineering:
Electrical, electronic and robotics engineers are involved in the design, development and testing of electrical, electronic and robotic systems.
For electrical and electronic engineers this could include anything from driverless cars to medical scanners, while robotics engineers would create robots and robotic systems that are able to complete jobs that humans can’t.
You’ll develop specialist skills according to your interests and ambitions, including areas such as power electronics, machine intelligence, microcontroller systems and renewable energy
Many of our courses offer an optional placement in industry.
Placements are an invaluable opportunity to help consolidate your first two years learning, gain experience, and radically enhance your employability.
You'll have access to cutting-edge resources through our Advanced Digital Manufacturing Technology (ADMT) facility, and experience state-of-the-art manufacturing hardware and software, including CISCO industrial networks, manufacturing execution systems and industrial robots.
Discover our Electronic and Electrical Engineering courses
With a wide range of career opportunities available you could work for robotics, digital technology, automotive, telecommunications, electronics consultancies and electronic equipment manufacturers.
Our close links with industry means that what you’ll learn reflects current best practices.
We also work with many professional bodies and learned societies.
You'll benefit from their teaching, support, research and commercial activities.
Future careers in Electrical and Robotics Engineering

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/subjects/energy-and-environment:
Our industry-led courses will provide you with the contemporary technical design, power generation and operations skills you need to increase energy efficiency and further develop renewable sources of energy.
You’ll have the opportunity to join the Engineering Society and work with a diverse group of students and staff on innovation projects and take part in specialised group projects using complex systems.
Our close links with industry means everything you’ll learn reflects current best practice - especially as you’ll be taught by staff with successful careers in the engineering sector.
Energy engineering is a growing discipline and graduates are in greater demand than ever, which means your options within the sector are varied.
Graduates can progress to employment in the growing renewable energy sector.
You'll be able to work as a system engineer, design engineer, project engineer, energy consultant and in energy management.
Future careers in Energy and Environment

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/subjects/english:
Join us at the University of Central Lancashire to study your English degree programme where we will explore and analyse elements of literary text, writing and language.
We also offer unique combinations with other subjects to ensure that the degree programme you study will be in matters that are of interest to you and supports your career aspirations.
As well as delving into books and learning through small interactive classes the subject areas are brought to life in our on-campus facilities such as our Live Literature room and Linguistics Lab.
Learning is also enhanced through various off campus trips to museums and places of interest tailored to the subject area.
Work related live projects will allow you to gain valuable work experience which could include planning a conference, literature festival, writing competition, reading project or setting up an exhibition.
Yvonne is currently working on a series of literary publications that explore climate change and environmental issues, and how authors take a stand against environmental destruction.
English graduates go into a range of careers in writing and related fields.
You could also pursue jobs in teaching, education support, local government, travel, retail and marketing.
You'll also be well equipped for entry into graduate professions in local government and public services, as well as schemes in the private sector.
You could study for a PGCE to become a teacher or go onto a postgraduate research programme.
Studying English could lead to a future career as a:

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/subjects/fire-and-safety:
They demonstrate a strong, well-coordinated research link, which contributes strongly to the relevance and currency of the content.
You’ll benefit from significant investment in the latest high-quality equipment and facilities available through our £35 million Engineering Innovation Centre located within one of the most intense engineering and manufacturing areas in the UK.
Take full advantage of our new, purpose-built fire laboratories, supported by state-of-the-art computational fluid dynamics facilities, analytical and material characterisation facilities for fire chemistry and fire safety engineering, as well as small and intermediate-scale experiments and facilities at Washington Hall, the UK’s international fire, training and development centre.
You’ll be taught by staff who are research academics from the fields of fire safety engineering and fire chemistry as well as fire professionals with many years of experience.
Staff have experience of both research and international collaboration.
After your degree, you work in various areas to determine the causes and effects of a fire and fire damage.
You could also find yourself working with architects to ensure fire protection and develop escape routes in buildings.
The scope of careers means you'll have opportunities to work in science, technology, law, management or research.
Future careers in fire and safety

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/subjects/forensic-science:
Our Chartered Society of Forensic Sciences accredited courses are designed and taught by experienced forensic scientists, crime scene investigators, senior police officers and research-active academics.
You’ll be taught in a range of specialist environments.
We’ve recently invested in 15 new crime scene flats which give you the opportunity to gain experience in a more realistic working environment.
This is in addition to the dedicated crime scene houses, garaged vehicle examination bay, and a blood spatter pattern analysis suite – we were the first university in the UK to have these.
What’s more, you’ll have access to well-equipped criminalistics laboratories and an extensive human skeletal collection with both modern and archaeological specimens.
Our FARO laser scanning tech
The skills gained in a forensic science degree will prepare you for employment in areas of forensics, chemistry or biotechnology.
You'll gain knowledge in forensic investigation, crime scenes, law for forensic scientists and analysis of evidence.
Our graduates work in various sectors such as; government agencies, the Civil Service, education and research, NHS laboratories and private companies.
Studying forensic science could lead to a future career as a:
Our forensic science academics Paul Langton and Claire Hadley featured on an episode of BBC's Frontline Fightback.
This show looks at the smart technology and specialist tactics that are bringing offenders to justice.
This episode showcases the state of the art FARO equipment used here at UCLan, and its real world applications.
Our reputation has allowed us to recruit many high-ranking professionals from areas such as the police, forensic sciences and crime scene investigation, as well as world-leading academics.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/subjects/health-professions:
We are one of the largest and foremost providers of health and welfare education in the UK, committed to excellence in learning, teaching and research.
We aim to develop students to be solution focused individuals who will be well equipped to enable, stimulate and promote health and wellbeing within their communities and beyond.
It is our goal to work in partnership with you so that you can achieve your full potential, helping you to make a difference within the communities in which you serve.
Our strong links across the North West ensure you’ll have the opportunity of work-based placements in a variety of settings.
Many of our courses lead to professional registration or a career within the NHS, private hospitals, social services and children’s services.
If you’d like to progress to a postgraduate or top-up course, we have lots of options available.
Future health profession careers:

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/subjects/history:
Studying history as a subject will develop you into an independent thinker and researcher.
You will be capable of producing your own interpretations of historical events through analysis of the evidence.
The ability to analyse and interpret information is an invaluable transferable skill that many employers are looking for.
In our History course you will explore various periods of history including modern British and World History.
You’ll learn to understand, evaluate and critically respond to some of the key developments, processes and questions that affect so many aspects of our daily lives in historical and contemporary form.
You will also build a better understanding of the world around you and will gain an appreciation for other cultures and traditions.
Our history courses draw on the latest scholarship and research to help you develop an in-depth understanding of key themes and issues.
You will be able to plan your own ideas and responses to vital contemporary concerns.
Understanding ‘The New Cold War’
The focus on transferable skills will enable you to prepare for a wide range of careers.
You will gain confidence and the ability to work in a variety of professions such as teaching, heritage and conservation.
Future careers in history:

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/subjects/journalism:
The ever-growing links with the industry, largely through our successful, distinguished alumni, ensures current and dynamic courses are delivered to you.
We pride ourselves on keeping up to date with the changes in the sector and working across the different mediums so you can hone skills in broadcast, video, film, print or digital.
Our courses are by their nature practical and hands-on where you will get the opportunity to immerse yourself in all aspects of journalism so you can benefit from the broadest range of skills, enhancing your future employment opportunities.
With great facilities and dedicated equipment for your use you will explore and experience magazine content, photo journalism, outdoor reporting, newsroom presenting, filming and editing plus digital and social media – all whilst understanding media law and ethics of journalism.
You’ll have numerous opportunities to gain work experience through our network of industry links which include radio, broadcast and print new media, media departments at sports clubs and media agencies where skills are very much sought after.
Our Journalism courses have been ranked 2nd in the UK in the Daily Mail University Guide 2026
Discover cJAM Journalism, our networking event for students
Our alumni work within TV, radio, digital, magazines and communications.
As well as in professions where their transferable skills are in demand.
The UK News Industry is a billion-pound industry supported by thousands of jobs, meaning graduates in this field are always in demand.
The UK News Media Industry is a £4.8 billion industry and supports 87,500 jobs.
(Source: News Media UK )
Studying journalism could lead to a future career as a:
As a student, you'll have access to a range of facilities and services.
Such as the Student Enterprise Hub , which gives you the unique opportunity to work on live briefs set by companies.
This will allow you to showcase your problem-solving skills, as well as allow you to put theory into practice.
You'll also have access to our Propeller service , where you can find help to start your own business.
You'll receive one-to-one mentoring, masterclasses and possible access to funding.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/subjects/languages:
Develop your communication skills in the language of your choice.
Delve into the culture and history of your chosen language and expand your knowledge of world events.
You’ll learn how to be a confident communicator in your chosen language and get to grips with a range of business topics, from marketing to management, on specific courses.
With integrated placements throughout these programmes, not to mention a semester abroad, you’ll have the chance to put both your business knowledge and language skills to the test while building valuable experience.
Learn within a truly international environment and immerse yourself in different cultures.
Our experienced team of language scholars includes 20 different nationalities.
We’re home to the only Institute of Korean Studies outside London, together with the Northern England Policy Centre for the Asia Pacific, the Northern Institute of Taiwan Studies and the Centre for Austronesian Studies.
Being a second language learner myself has reinforced the use of the communicative approach.
Innovation and creativity can be demonstrated in the materials development that Maria has been involved with all these years.
Having a reflective practitioner perspective has enabled her to show a sympathetic approach to the students’ way of learning by mainly focussing on how to enhance classroom dynamics through one-to-one, pair or group work, encouraging the active participation of students in a positive learning environment.
Modern Languages in Today’s World
You could enter a variety of occupations after studying a language course.
Our graduates work for local governments, in international business, consultancy, translation/interpreting, or worldwide teaching.
A degree in language could lead to a career as a:

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/subjects/law:
We offer the highly regarded LLB Hons Law programme, as well a range of additional law degrees with specialisms.
Gain a sound and practical understanding of how the law operates and how the legal systems work.
Our degrees incorporate plenty of work experience opportunities, national and international educational field trips and with our affiliation with Preston Crown Court, you’ll be able to go behind the scenes and gain knowledge and experience in how the courts operate.
Many of our students pursue roles as a solicitor or barrister while others may move into roles within criminal law or business and management.
You’ll engage with voluntary agencies such as Victim Support, the Citizens Advice Bureau and local charities, as well as undertaking placements with various law firms and public bodies such as Lancashire County Council.
You’ll also have opportunities to build practical legal experience and deal with real life cases through our Pro Bono Clinic, Business Law Clinic and Mediation Clinic.
Law students gain trainee solicitor contracts
Our qualifying law degrees provide a stepping stone for students to begin their legal training.
Become a solicitor (through the Legal Practice Course) or barrister (through the Bar Professional Training Course).
Learn a range of transferable skills applicable to jobs outside of the legal field.
Find employment in fields such as management within multinational organisations.
Future careers for those studying law:

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/subjects/marketing:
We see a different world of marketing where we strive to have an impact on more than the balance sheet.
A world where social responsibility is at the heart of everything we do.
Let’s shape the world.
Let’s make things happen.
Let’s make a difference.
We have links with multinational companies, local businesses and professional bodies.
So you'll have plenty of opportunities to gain real-life experience.
Whether it be through live projects, internships or work placements.
Our programmes allow you to experience the very latest thinking and practice within the exciting world of marketing.
We have affiliations and accreditations with the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM).
Upon graduation from some courses, you're entitled to exemptions on the CIM’s professional qualifications.
This shortens the route to get acclaimed Chartered Marketer status.
Our courses lean on research expertise, and industry experience of our marketing tutors.
As well as by consultation with the marketing, advertising and media industries across the globe.
The marketing modules provide the skills required to practise marketing with confidence.
In many cases, the structure of the courses allows you to focus on areas of interest and career aspirations.
We offer modules in consumer psychology, branding, digital marketing and communications.
Meet Business and Marketing graduate Mason.
Mason took advantage of a year-long placement with BSH Home Appliances, a global company whose brands include Bosch, Siemens and Neff.
It gave him first-hand insights into how multinational business operates.
They were so impressed with Mason that he landed a graduate role with them.
Our Marketing and Digital Marketing programmes prepare you to work for in-house marketing teams as well as agencies.
We'll also help you build the skills needed to become a self-employed marketer.
Future careers for those studying marketing:

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/subjects/mathematics:
On our courses you’ll study the three areas of mathematics; pure, applied and statistics.
You'll also get the chance to explore specialist areas such as cryptology, logic and mathematical biology.
As you gain in-depth knowledge of mathematical theory you’ll also learn about its applications in the real world.
You'll enjoy regular public seminars and guest speakers to broaden your knowledge in a variety of specialist topics.
You'll also have opportunities with local schools around Preston, to gain valuable classroom experience.
This is great if you are considering a teaching career.
The transferable skills you’ll get during your time with us are highly prized by future employers.
From analytical thinking to problem-solving, communication, team-working and intellectual rigour.
At the end of your course, you’ll be ready for a thriving career with endless possibilities in many fields.
These include, but are not limited to:
Mathematics graduates can be found throughout multiple industries.
Business and commerce, in the public and private sectors, with large employers and in small organisations.
Employers value the intellectual rigour and reasoning skills that mathematics students have.
As well as their analytical approach to problem-solving.
Future careers for those studying mathematics:
You’ll be taught in a friendly and supportive environment by expert tutors with doctoral research degrees.
Staff are engaged in a broad range of Mathematical research covering pure, applied and education focused maths.
Find out more about the full research specialism and interests of staff from across the Jeremiah Horrocks Institute.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/subjects/mechanical-engineering:
Our courses are tutored by world-class academics with both industry and research experience.
You’ll have the opportunity to work on industry and research-led projects and learn the skills and knowledge to graduate with a rounded education that prepares you to take ideas all the way from concept to production and launch.
You’ll benefit from significant investment in the latest high-quality equipment and facilities available through our £35 million Engineering Innovation Centre.
You’ll also have access to extensive manufacturing facilities, which means you’ll gain the practical engineering expertise you need to get noticed by employers with the advantage of being located at the centre of one of the most intense engineering and manufacturing areas in the UK.
You’ll also develop skills associated with the design and development process through a combination of year-long modules, masterclasses, and short courses.
Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering Careers Fair
Graduates from our courses are currently working at companies like Mercedes AMG Motorsports, Williams F1, Force India F1, Tom Tunstall Racing, M-Sport, Ginetta, and Century Motorsport.
If you’re looking beyond the motorsports industry, we have had graduates employed in engineering positions at companies like Jaguar Land Rover, Bentley Motors, Airbus, BAE Systems, Babcock, Tata Technologies, Helical Technologies, MI Technology, United Utilities and the Ministry of Defence.
Future careers for those studying mechanical engineering:

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/subjects/media:
Our portfolio of media courses are reflective of the in demand skills within this area of the creative industries and are taught in state-of-the-art industry leading facilities and supported with dedicated equipment.
The calibre of the course, academic team and our students is evidenced by our regular successes at competitions and award ceremonies including RTS (both regional and national).
Our commitment to your employability skills is reflected in opportunities for work experience on commercial projects and networking event such as “cJam – Media”, our annual employability event.
cJAM shakes-up the traditional career fair format and gives our students face-to-face time with successful industry professionals all of whom have come to the event with the offer of valuable work placement opportunities.
Hear from Design Alumni Saija Wintersun
Our media courses prepare you for success in film, TV, radio, animation, gaming and multimedia industries.
Graduates have also go on to work in other fields, such as marketing, journalism and print media.
Future careers for those studying media:
Interested in media or music technology?
Our new Sound Design degree explores the creative and technical sides of audio production.
Develop your skills and kick-start your career in sound design.
You'll have access to a range of internal services here.
This includes the Student Enterprise Hub , which gives you the unique opportunity to work on live briefs set by a range of companies in the North West and beyond.
You can exhibit your creative problem-solving skills, as well as put theory into practice.
You also have access to our Propeller service .
This helps you start up your own business through one-to-one mentoring, masterclasses and possible access to funding.
With creative students three times more likely to start up a business after graduating, this is an excellent way of getting ahead of the game.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/subjects/medicine:
Our undergraduate courses will enable you to progress into a career as a doctor (MBBS) or a physician associate (MPAS).
We offer a variety of courses including:
On some of our courses you'll gain invaluable real-life experience.
This means in-built and voluntary clinical placements in urban and rural NHS settings.
You'll also get patient interaction through our volunteer patient group.
Our state-of-the-art facilities include clinical skills laboratories with high fidelity clinical human simulators.
As well as this, there are human anatomy resource and learning centres containing new anatomical models.
Equipment includes virtual dissection tables and VR headsets.
Teaching takes place across our three campus sites.
These are in Preston , Burnley and at the National Centre for Remote and Rural Medicine (NCRRM) at Westlakes , in Whitehaven, Cumbria.
Some programmes are completely online.
Take the next step towards your future career.
Read our guidance to help you with your application.
We are always looking for willing volunteer patients to take part in student teaching or assessment sessions.
Volunteers should be happy to allow students to record their medical histories.
And, in some cases, carry out physical examinations.
Volunteers can attend sessions once or twice a year if they wish or can choose to be more active participants.
We are particularly looking for volunteers with any of the following conditions:
If you would like to get involved and your condition does not appear on the list, we still want to hear from you.
Each volunteer patient will be well looked after and provided with refreshments and free parking.
Additionally, everyone who takes part will receive a small token to say ‘thank you’ for giving up your time to help our medical students’ progress.
If you want to become a patient volunteer please email us .
A member of our team will contact you with further information.
People living in our most deprived communities experience severe health inequalities and the poorest health outcomes.
Yet to date, we have failed to close this gap.
The Complete Care Community Programme was created to tackle the health inequalities in England.
It explores how today’s NHS can contribute as Integrated Care Systems become statutory bodies and we continue to recover from the Covid-19 pandemic.
UCLan has evaluated the early development and progress of the programme.
Read the full report.
Visit NHS Arden and GEM Commissioning Support Unit website.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/subjects/midwifery:
Every student midwife is important to us and at the University of Central Lancashire we aim to support and encourage you to develop into a confident and competent midwife.
We have an excellent reputation for educating and training midwives, as well as contributing world-leading research to the field.
Studying midwifery, you’ll learn from world renowned academics who are all still visible in practice.
Our strong links across the North West ensures you’ll have the opportunity of clinical placements in different settings.
Midwifery placements provide practical experience in all stages of pregnancy, including labour and birth.
Once you have successfully completed the Midwifery undergraduate course, you will be able to enter the register as a qualified Midwife.
Find out more in our guide on how to become a midwife .
For those who are already qualified as a Midwife, we have a range of courses to help you take the next steps in your midwifery career with postgraduate qualifications or CPD courses.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/subjects/nutrition:
Nutrition graduates are increasingly recognised as a vital part of public and individual health, using their skills to help companies, people and communities make the right dietary choices.
The University’s Nutritional Sciences and Applied Food Safety Studies (NSAFSS) Group has been established to advance and promote the development of teaching and research within the field of food and nutrition.
Our internationally renowned staff are all currently active in research, ensuring an innovative yet focused approach with practical application in our undergraduate and postgraduate course delivery.
Our strong industry links ensure that students and graduates have the opportunities to gain experience in the industry through internships and placements.
Our courses draw upon a broad base of knowledge and skills across the scientific disciplines of nutrition, exercise and health within the University.
Graduates go on to work with organisations such as local councils, the food industry, regional charities, professional sports clubs and the NHS.
Future careers for those studying nutrition:

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/subjects/optometry:
We also offer short courses or modules for qualified professionals in search of further academic qualifications in areas such as leadership or clinical education that can lead to a full postgraduate award.
The blended learning format means that knowledge is delivered online and there will be several week-long residential on-campus “blocks” to embed learning into clinical and practical skills throughout each year.
As a student, you will be able to utilise our brand-new, purpose-built vision sciences facilities including specialist dispensing and refraction labs.
We are the first university in the North West to provide students with access to the Eyesi® Direct Ophthalmoscope virtual reality simulator.
The on-campus Eye Health Clinic is a student led equivalent to a high street optical practice.
This is open to members of the public, providing an excellent learning environment to gain specialist real world skills.
Academic staff are all registered Optometrists and Dispensing Opticians who bring their clinical experience with learning and teaching qualifications to ensure content is up to date.
Visiting clinicians will be supervising and facilitating specific aspects of the programmes.
Registered Dispensing Opticians or Optometrists develop various career paths.
From starting a business to working in primary care settings and hospitals.
You could go on undertake research or specialize further, for example in paediatrics.
With further studies, you could help in the development of new technologies and treatment options.
Studying Optometry could lead to a future career as a:
Further studies can lead to specialist careers in:
Will you inspire and train the medics and healthcare professionals of the future?
Our MSc in Medical Education introduces the principles of teaching, learning and assessing others.
Modules can be studied through blended learning (some face to face sessions and synchronous online teaching) or wholly distance learning (self-directed with tutorial support).
Our Medical Leadership MSc course will help you to develop your leadership skills in healthcare.
You'll gain the knowledge and skills to face challenges in the NHS and social care.
Are you a clinical or managerial practitioner working within an integrated healthcare team?
Are you looking to enhance your career or diversify your current role?
Our MSc, PGDip or PGCert in Clinical Practice, Management and Education will provide you with the skill sets needed for future roles in the health and social care sectors.
Our doctorate qualification in Clinical Studies is designed to empower healthcare practitioners to drive change and innovation in their workplace by applying cutting-edge research to real-life practice.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/subjects/performing-arts-and-music:
It’s our great industry links and the opportunities to work on live briefs and client-based projects that we provide throughout degrees that make our students work-ready upon graduation.
Many courses gear students up to full-scale productions when they can perform for paying audiences and even attend graduate showcases.
You’ll have access to the Media Factory housing state of- the-art recording studios, black box theatres, television studios; radio studios; motion capture suite; green screen, professionally equipped studio theatre spaces; rehearsal rooms and Mac and PC computer suites.
Acting graduates including Mandip Gill and Freddie Bolt have appeared as regular characters in two of the nation’s leading soaps.
Music alumni go on to careers as artists, performers, composers, and engineers.
Studying performing arts leads to careers in the West End and regional and overseas musical theatre.
Work as actors or performers with touring companies, creative artists, and directors.
Many graduates progress to teaching and working as independent dance artists.
Behind the scenes operatives are in short supply.
Specialist technicians in roles such as film, lighting and sound are in high demand.
Studying performing arts and music could lead to a future career as a:
Students have access to a range of internal services here, such as the Student Enterprise Hub , which gives students the unique opportunity to work on live briefs set by a range of companies in the North West and beyond - this allows students to exhibit their creative problem-solving skills, as well as allowing students to put theory into practice.
Students also have access to our Propeller service , allowing students to start up their own business through one-to-one mentoring, masterclasses and possible access to funding.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/subjects/physics:
We trace our physics and astronomy heritage back to Jeremiah Horrocks in 1639.
He made the first successful prediction and observation of a Transit of Venus from central Lancashire.
In 1993 we established The Jeremiah Horrocks Institute.
Through this we bring together over 50 academic staff, research fellows and students from across the world in an intellectually vibrant atmosphere.
Being a physics student at UCLan comes with a range of exciting opportunities.
You can get involved in active research, industry placements and interesting projects.
The sky was no limit for our final year students as they sent a high altitude balloon 100,000 ft above the surface of the Earth.
This project tested instruments and materials intended for use in space travel.
Throughout your studies, you're taught by our passionate team of experienced, research-active lecturers.
With their strong history of developing students on an individual level, you are in the best place to achieve your potential.
Graduates of physics and astrophysics are amongst the most employable in the world and are in particularly high demand for technical and business sectors, where analytical and mathematical skills are at a premium.
We're proud to have a broad range of successful alumni with UCLan physics graduates working at high profile businesses such as BAE and NASA.
Studying physics could lead to a future career in:

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/subjects/policing:
Our policing courses are designed for those who want to gain recognised graduate skills in the various fields of policing.
You’ll learn from highly qualified academics as well as former and current-serving police officers and investigators, who together bring a wealth of theoretical and practical knowledge to enhance your learning experience.
Our reputation in this area is demonstrated through our numerous working relationships with local and national police forces, law enforcement agencies and regular visiting high-profile speakers.
This reputation is further enhanced by our new partnerships with both Lancashire and Cumbria Constabularies to deliver the training element of their Police Constable Degree Apprenticeship.
You’ll use state-of-the-art facilities such as our ‘major incident’ training simulator Hydra Minerva Decision Making Suite, Crime Scene Houses and search and recovery laboratories.
The Hydra Minerva Suite at the University of Central Lancashire
Our emphasis on employability means graduates secure employment in various exciting roles.
Careers in policing:

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/subjects/care-and-community:
Working closely with a wide range of stakeholders, the University of Central Lancashire is premised upon supporting and embedding the principles of social justice across all activities and making a significant contribution to ‘Creating Better Futures’.
We aim to be recognised as a world-class provider of innovative, real-world education and research that is underpinned by a commitment to social justice.
We’ll work closely with you to help you develop your potential and actively make a positive difference in the community.
We deliver a wide portfolio of undergraduate and postgraduate courses, as well as offering a broad range of Continuing Professional Development (CPD) opportunities for professionals working within care and community fields.
We have long standing relationships with a wide range of agencies across the North West.
They provide and support work-based opportunities and placements for you during your studies.
These include: community mental health and learning disability services; services working with offenders; domestic violence centres; homeless services; housing projects; women’s centres; youth centres and services; and older person services.
The placements provide the springboard for your career to develop in these areas after graduation.
After studying a degree in care and community, you could have one of the following careers:

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/subjects/social-sciences:
How does society work?
What makes one society different from another?
At the University of Central Lancashire you’ll be encouraged to look beyond the everyday to understand contemporary society and how it shapes our lives.
Be prepared to have your intellect stretched and your prejudices challenged.
Each aspect covered will have far reaching impact on how we live and its influence on religion, education, politics and social matters.
You will explore, debate and analyse belief systems and social challenges from a local, national and international perspective.
Digital Humanities in the Modern World
Social sciences qualifications provide an excellent background for a wide range of careers.
Opportunities can be found across all sectors in many occupations.
Careers for social science graduates

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/subjects/social-work:
Social work involves engaging with service users, as well as their families and friends.
You will also work closely with organisations like the police, local authority departments, schools and the probation service.
A career in social work will appeal to you if you’re interested in subjects such as sociology, psychology, health and social care, politics and counselling.
We are one of the largest, most well-established and highly regarded providers of social work and social care education and training in the UK.
You will be able to draw upon our vast pool of expertise and practice experience whilst benefitting from bespoke training, research, consultancy and evaluation.
Our qualifying programmes have been approved by Social Work England and on successful completion you will be eligible to apply to go on the Social Work Register.
Saresh Mohammad, Usman Ahmed, Nicola Harris, & Saana Mohammed - MA Social Work
After graduating, you can register as a social worker with Social Work England.
Find out more about how to become a social worker .
Recent graduates have been employed in social work teams across a variety of settings.
They have worked with parenting and family support teams, youth justice, community drug and mental health teams.
Some graduates return to us to undertake post-qualifying courses.
Experienced practitioners also continue their academic study with us.
Studying social work could lead to a future career as a:

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/subjects/sport-and-exercise-sciences:
You’ll be taught by specialist research active expert staff, who have experience of teaching in health, nutrition, physical activity and coaching/leadership.
This allows you the opportunity to gain skills that will provide an excellent platform for employment.
Make full use of some of the outstanding facilities at the University, including the biomechanics and physiology laboratories.
You’ll be well supported during your time with us and have the opportunity to gain additional professional qualifications alongside your degree course.
In addition, you’ll have the opportunity to travel and study abroad whilst studying with us, through placements, internships and volunteering positions.
Charlotte.
Straight from university into a top club.
Our graduates have gone on to a wide range of careers after leaving us.
We have graduates that work in professional sports.
Others work in community health whilst others have set up their own businesses.
Whatever you want to achieve, we will give you the knowledge, skills, experience, and guidance to pursue your goals.
Studying sport and exercise sciences could lead to a future career as a:

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/subjects/tesol:
Teaching English is a rewarding career with opportunities to work locally, nationally, globally and digitally.
TESOL combines development of cultural awareness and people skills with subject skills that ensures your growing confidence to enter and grow as a professional in this field.
There is also the option to combine TESOL with a modern foreign language.
You’ll be taught in class sizes that will allow our academics to get to know you and for you to know everyone.
Fundamental to the courses are the practical sessions.
You’ll get the opportunity to volunteer as a teaching assistant aided by experienced teachers.
You’ll also have opportunities to work at local charities where you will be helping their service users.
You will also get the opportunity to extend your learning experience with the option to travel to a non-English speaking country to practice your teaching.
Fundamental throughout will be your development as a teacher, gaining practical skills in aspects of teaching whilst developing reflective and observational skills.
Graduates have followed careers in teaching, education management, training, and publishing.
Others have explored translating and interpreting and the civil service.
Many others have followed further postgraduate studies including a PhD.
Many of our graduates are now working abroad.
Opportunities arise for students to become involved in research projects within the team.
We have a well-established network of alumni from our courses who we can put students in contact with.
Studying TESOL could lead to a future career as a:

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/subjects/tourism-hospitality-and-events-management:
Learn from internationally renowned experts with extensive first-hand industry experience.
You'll develop an understanding of wider society and how real-world developments affect organisations.
You'll have plenty of opportunities to gain practical experience.
Whether it's on a paid work placement, short-term internship or a live student project.
You will be able to experience both national and international field trips to enhance your learning.
Previously students have enjoyed trips to Cambodia and Mauritius.
On these trips students have taken part in industry-related projects and experiences.
International Hospitality Management student Romesa loves to travel.
Her passion for the hospitality industry has seen her develop her knowledge of marketing and international events management.
Now, after getting hands-on with planning the graduation ball, she’s looking forward to a globetrotting career.
Next stop – the USA!
Meet Zain BA (Hons) International Tourism Management student.
Zain also studied at our campus in Cyprus; the perfect opportunity to experience a different culture.
Beyond Business – Meet Zain
Grace: how UCLan helped me get work-ready
Opportunities for our graduates are vast.
Some of our graduates go onto graduate schemes within renowned organisations.
Others find roles such as managers and team leaders within a multitude of businesses.
Some use acquired skills, knowledge and links to start their own business in hospitality, tourism and events.
Studying tourism, hospitality and events management could lead to a future career as a:

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/subjects/veterinary-medicine:
We’re creating a new generation of highly employable veterinary medicine professionals.
You will be industry-ready and have a strong commitment to animal welfare.
Our courses will give you the skills and experience you need to have a successful career.
You’ll have access to our state-of-the-art facilities and equipment at Preston Campus.
And, we’re one of the first UK universities to use virtual dissection tables (Anatomage Table).
We have partnered with Myerscough College & University Centre .
They've been delivering land-based education for over 125 years in veterinary nursing , animal science, equine science and agriculture.
You’ll have access to their outstanding facilities to develop your practical skills.
This includes animal handling, animal husbandry, clinical skills facilities and working farm.
What’s more, our courses will give you the chance to engage in various placements.
These will be at local, regional and national veterinary medicine surgeries and hospitals.
By the time you graduate, you’ll already have significant real-world experience.
Many of our graduates will go onto to rewarding careers including:
Our experienced team of veterinary professionals and animal scientists will teach you.
They have a wealth of clinical and research expertise.
Study Veterinary Medicine & Surgery (BVMS)
Our portfolio of postgraduate programmes will develop your veterinary knowledge and enhance your career.
We have a team of specially assessed and accepted dogs who make up our Canine Teaching Assistants.
These lovely animals help our students with their animal handling sessions as well as providing real life examples in both our BVMS and Bioveterinary Sciences studies.
Our state-of-the-art facilities will help our students to become the best possible veterinary surgeons upon graduation.
To become a vet in the UK you must complete a 5 year degree programme at one of the UK’s eleven veterinary schools.
4 years programmes are available if you are a graduate.
After you complete a veterinary degree programme, you will need validation by the Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons (RCVS) .
Then you will get added to the RCVS register of practising veterinary surgeons.
UK veterinary professionals are regulated by the RCVS.
This includes Veterinary Surgeons and Veterinary Nurses.
See our webpage for more information .
If you have no prior higher education experience, you can take a 5 year degree programme such as our BVMS programme.
Don't worry if you don’t meet the entry requirements.
Foundation or gateway courses are available at some universities, like our BVMS (Foundation Year) course.
These provide access to veterinary programmes.
If you have a previous science degree, some universities offer 4 year graduate programmes - we don't currently offer this.
You'll also need to consider how to fund a second degree.
Veterinary science is the study of science subjects associated with the practice of veterinary medicine.
If you complete a degree in a veterinary science related subject, such as our BSc (Hons) Bioveterinary Sciences , you are not qualified to become a veterinary surgeon.
In order to become a veterinary surgeon you would need to complete our Bachelors in Veterinary Medicine and Surgery (BVMS).
It is the application of science and professional clinical skills to provide healthcare to animals.
It's sometimes called veterinary science.
Bioveterinary sciences encompass the biological and non-clinical veterinary sciences, focusing on animal biology and physiology.
They also address broader aspects of animal science, including management, behaviour, ethics, and welfare.
Bioveterinary sciences examine the practical and scientific considerations of managing animals under human care, incorporating a range of scientific and technical skills.
We take an integrated One Health approach to bioveterinary sciences , recognising the link between humans, animals, and the environment.
This means that, in addition to studying animal-specific knowledge, we also explore the interactions between these three elements to promote a holistic understanding of animal health and welfare.
There are a wide range of scholarships, bursaries and funds available to help support you whilst studying with us.
See the RVCS website for further scholarship and bursary opportunities.
Visit our webpage for all the information you need to help you become a vet.
Widening participation is at the core of our mission.
We firmly believe in helping people to seize every opportunity to flourish in education.
We offer a reduced entry tariff for those who’s life experiences may have resulted in academic challenges.
We're one of the first UK universities to offer placements in Year One on our BVMS course.
They're an excellent way to gain the real-world skills and experience you'll need to become a vet.
Our veterinary medicine courses can be challenging at times.
So we've put together a specialist package of Veterinary Medicine student support.
It focuses on your general wellbeing and improving your skills as a professional to help with motivation.
Our courses prepare you for further study in vet and life sciences.
They'll also prepare you to enter the field of veterinary medicine or advance your career.
Studying veterinary medicine could lead to a future career as a:
Thinking about applying to study veterinary medicine at the University of Central Lancashire?
At university, you'll make friends for life, explore your potential and discover new passions.
There are plenty more reasons why you'll love living in Preston too.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/open-days/faqs:
This page contains answers to frequently asked questions (FAQs) about our university Open Days.
Our course offering differs across our campuses, so it is important to check before booking.
To confirm the campus of your chosen course, check the box titled "campus" at the top of the course page.
If the course runs at multiple campuses this section will be a drop-down list with different campus options.
It's also important to note we hold different events for both undergraduate and postgraduate study.
See our A-Z of courses to discover your perfect course and the right event for you.
You can park for free on any of our University car parks.
The closest to the Student Centre are:
Please note council owned car parks are not free on the day of the event and normal pay and display rules apply.
There are blue badge spaces in all our car parks.
There are also five blue badge spaces available directly behind the Student Centre, via Adelphi Street.
If you or one of your guests require a blue badge space you do not need to notify us prior to your visit but if you have any questions please email the Open Days inbox .
There are car parking spaces available at Victoria Mill (BB11 1RA).
These are allocated on a first come first serve basis and do get full.
Victoria Mill car park has designated blue badge spaces which require booking in advance, please email the Open Days inbox to pre-book.
If Victoria Mill is full we would recommend parking at the council owned King Street car park (BB11 1XD).
Please note this is a pay and display car park.
Our Preston Campus is in the heart of the city centre, and a 10 minute walk from both Preston railway and bus stations.
If you need directions to Preston Campus, use the postcode PR1 7DP in your map app of choice.
This will take you straight to our Student Centre.
You can look out for our friendly student ambassadors (in red hoodies) who will help you find where you need to be.
Victoria Mill is a short walk from all three of Burnley’s train stations and Burnley bus station.
For Burnley Campus, use the postcode BB11 1RA in your map app which will take you to Victoria Mill on Trafalgar Street.
You can check-in from 9am at the Student Centre at our Preston Campus.
There's lots to see and do at the Open Day so try to give yourself plenty of time to explore.
Check the Open Day programme for times and locations.
Please note, the last campus tour departs at 2pm and our Open Day closes at 3pm.
For Burnley Campus, you can check-in from 9.45am in Victoria Mill and the event finishes at 2pm.
Check-in opens from 9am in the Student Centre.
If you haven’t already received a copy of the programme in the post you can collect one at check-in.
Don’t worry if you arrive late and need to go straight to a talk or subject session.
After your session, please drop into the Student Centre to complete your check-in.
Check-in opens from 9.45am in Victoria Mill.
All student talks, stands, and tour meeting points are also located in Victoria Mill.
You should receive a QR code via email following your booking to the event.
We will also send you a reminder ticket email on the day prior to the event.
To assist with check-in please have this ready to scan.
Don’t worry if on the day you haven’t received or can’t access your QR code, our friendly check-in team can find your booking on our system.
Yes, we’d love to see you and your guests.
You can register up to four guests on your booking form.
Don’t worry if one of your guests can’t make it, or someone extra wants to come along, you can update your information when you check-in at the Open Day.
If any of your guests have any specific requirements (such as mobility issues, visual or hearing impairments) and require additional support on the day please email the Open Days inbox in advance.
This will ensure our inclusive support team can put the correct measure in place for your guests.
Yes, we will have academic staff for all subject areas available on the day.
They will be delivering subject talks and sessions where they'll be discussing where they’ll be discussing their course(s) in further detail.
Alternatively, visit our academics at their subject stands where they'll be happy to answer your questions.
Academics will be on campus between 9am - 3pm at Preston and 10am - 2pm at Burnley.
For Preston Open Days please see your programme for individual timings and locations of subject sessions.
Attend the accommodation talk at our Preston Open Day to learn about the available options and helpful tips on how to apply.
Guided accommodation tours also run throughout the day, departing from the upper ground floor of the Student Centre.
You can also stop by the accommodation stand - our dedicated Accommodation Team are happy to answer any questions.
At our Burnley Open Day, you can visit Sandygate Hall accommodation to get all the information you need about living on campus.
You will have plenty of time to explore Preston, the place we're proud to call home.
A vibrant, bustling and culturally diverse city in the heart of the North West.
It's home to a thriving community of thousands of students, making it the perfect place to live, work and play.
We've teamed up with local restaurants, cafés, and hotels to bring you some exclusive Open Day discounts to help you discover Preston.
Burnley was once named the friendliest town in the UK, and we recommend looking around the town when you visit us.
Burnley is a diverse and friendly place with a unique community feel.
Explore local eateries, historic architecture and ample green spaces.
Although we recommend arriving early to make the most of what’s on offer, we’ve planned our Open Day so that there are activities taking place throughout the day.
Most subject talks have both a morning and afternoon session.
If you miss your subject talk, you can also speak to staff at the subject stands.
Please see your programme for individual timings and locations of subject sessions.
Please note the last campus tour departs at 2pm and our Open Day closes at 3pm.
Yes, it is still worth coming.
Don’t worry if you’ve missed the course talk for your chosen subject, you can still talk to our friendly academic tutors, take a campus tour, or visit our student accommodation.
The last tours start at 1.30pm and the event will finish at 2pm.
A Degree Apprenticeship is a great way to gain an academic qualification whilst you work.
At our Preston Campus, you will be able to attend a Degree Apprenticeship talk to find out more about this degree option.
You'll also be able to visit the Degree Apprenticeship stand in the Student Centre throughout the day.
If you are joining us for a Burnley Campus Open Day, the Degree Apprenticeship team will be present throughout the day in Victoria Mill and are happy to answer any of your questions.
If you or one of your guests have any specific requirements and require additional support at the Open Day, please add details when booking.
If you have not included these details on your booking then please email the Open days inbox .
Please contact us at your earliest convenience to ensure we can assist you as best we can.
Support often involves BSL interpreters and wellbeing ambassadors being there on the day for you.
On the day we will also have representatives from our Student Support Team on hand to discuss what support is on offer to you throughout the duration of your studies.
Victoria Mill (BB11 1RA) car park has designated blue badge spaces which require booking in advance, please email the Open Days inbox .
No problem, an Open Day provides the perfect opportunity to explore different subject areas and find the best fit for you.
Attend plenty of sessions and speak to as many academics as you wish during the day.
On arrival, please make your way to our Student Centre and our friendly check-in staff will be able to help you plan your day.
We’re sorry you can’t make it.
Would you like to attend another Open Day or come on a campus tour to have a look around?
Please email our Course Enquiries inbox with your details and we’ll be happy to amend your booking.
If you would like to cancel your booking please email our Course Enquiries inbox .
Unfortunately no animals or pets are permitted on University premises, unless authorised for teaching purposes, Guide Dogs for the Blind, Assistance Dogs, and Police Dogs.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/open-days/attending-an-open-day:
Our next Preston Open Day is on Sunday 12 October 2025.
Explore our city centre campus and meet our students and staff.
Discover your subject, and tour the facilities and accommodation.
Before you visit, it's important to prepare for your Open Day so you can get the most out of your experience.
Take a look at the information below to help you plan your day.
This page includes information about:
Please note, the information below was for our August Open Day.
Please check back soon for information for our next Open Day on Sunday 12 October 2025 .
It’s easy to reach our Preston Campus by rail, bus or car.
We’re located in the heart of the city centre, just a 10-minute walk from Preston railway station and Preston bus station.
Find out more about how to get to Preston Campus.
If you’re travelling by car, you can park for free on any of our University car parks.
The closest to the Student Centre are listed below:
You can also get directions to the car parks using our interactive map .
On arrival please head to our Student Centre (PR1 2HE) to check-in and collect important information, including your Open Day programme , treat token and drink voucher.
Make use of our interactive map or you can download the Open Day campus map.
We've highlighted key buildings to help you find your way.
Don't worry if you aren't sure where to go, staff and student ambassadors will be around to help you get to where you need to be.
Our check-in point is the Student Centre.
Have your QR code ready to scan and don’t forget to bring the Open Day programme you received in the post.
You can pick up a campus map from our friendly check-in staff.
Don’t worry if you’re running late, you can check in throughout the day.
Help yourself to a free hot or cold drink at our cafés.
You'll be given a voucher when you check in.
We also offer breakfast barms (sandwiches) for just £1 from Foster and Harrington Buildings.
You can also grab a bite to eat throughout the day at:
Don't forget to collect your treat token from the check-in desk too.
You can redeem these at different places across campus.
You might already know what you want to study, or maybe you're undecided.
Whatever stage in your journey you are, there are lots of opportunities to discover everything you need to know.
There will be many available activities for you at Open Day.
These include subject talks, facilities tours, question and answer (Q & A) panels, and taster sessions.
Don't forget to visit both subject sessions if you're interested in a joint programme.
Each session lasts about 30 minutes (unless stated otherwise), and you can attend as many as you like.
Many of our subject sessions run twice throughout the day so you can choose the times that suit you.
Check out your programme for information on subject talks and activities.
If you can’t make one of our subject talks, head over to our subject stands to speak to our course tutors.
Drop-in and meet our expert tutors and current students throughout the day.
This is a great opportunity to have a one-to-one chat.
You can ask any questions about your course and the overall student experience.
Please see your programme to see where your subject stand is.
Considering a Degree Apprenticeship?
Our range of Higher and Degree Apprenticeships allow you to gain an academic qualification and degree whilst you work.
Our talk will give you with all the essential details you require.
This includes the available options, the steps involved, and how our matchmaking service can help you find opportunities.
If you can't make the talk, visit our stands in the Student Centre, Engineering Innovation Centre or Harrington Building.
Our current students can’t wait to show you around.
We also have talks throughout the day on a range of topics from our Student Support Teams .
Our campus tours take place throughout the day.
These leave from the upper ground floor in the Student Centre .
The last tour is usually at 2pm and tours take approximately 45 minutes.
You can also go on a self-guided tour of UCLan and private accommodation providers.
You can take a guided tour of the library and see all the resources there.
Just pop into the library, tours are leaving regularly throughout the day.
You can go on a guided sports arena tour by boarding a coach outside Brook Building.
The coach departs at 12.30pm and takes around one hour.
Our talks are packed with lots of useful advice.
This includes tips on writing your personal statement and submitting your application.
You can also find out about student finance and our accommodation .
And we have a student life talk, which is a great way to find out what it's really like to be a student at UCLan.
Our current students will be here to share their top tips and answer all your questions.
Some of the sessions are repeated in the morning and afternoon, so you don't need to attend both.
9.40am - 10.10am
Our student support services can help you get the most out of university life.
Meet our teams in the Student Centre.
They can help with any questions you might have, from your application to student finance.
They will be available on the Upper Ground Floor of the Student Centre from 9am to 3pm.
Chat to our friendly students who are easy to spot as they will be wearing red.
They'll be happy to answer any questions you have about life at UCLan.
Our on-campus accommodation is almost half the national average.
We also guarantee all new, full-time students a place in halls on Preston Campus.
Accommodation tours Guided accommodation tours also run throughout the day, departing from the Upper Ground Floor in the Student Centre.
The last tour is usually at 2pm.
Alternatively, you can drop into our accommodation throughout the day.
You can also go on a self-guided tour of our private accommodation providers.
We guarantee a room in our affordable, on-campus halls for all new full-time Preston students.
We also work with registered private landlords to make sure there is a good supply of affordable accommodation close to campus.
There are tours and private viewings throughout the day - take a look for more information
Affordable accommodation, right on campus
All our University halls are just a short walk from where you'll study – and they are the 6th most affordable in the UK (StudentCrowd, 2025).
Explore your options
Guided tours of our accommodation run throughout the day and depart from the Upper Ground Floor of the Student Centre.
The last tour usually sets off at 2pm.
Prefer to explore at your own pace?
You're welcome to drop into our halls throughout the day.
As these halls are not owned by the University we cannot guarantee they will be available on Open Days.
Please contact the provider directly to organise a viewing.
Main Reception University Quarter 1 Fylde Road Preston PR1 2XQ
The University Quarter office is usually open from 9am to 4.30pm for enquiries or you can visit the University Quarter website .
For more details on these properties you can visit the Homes for Students website .
Preston is a vibrant, multicultural city at the heart of North West England, home to thousands of students.
It offers the perfect mix of buzzing city life and peaceful green spaces.
Small enough to explore on foot, but full of character - Preston has everything a student needs.
If you've got questions before or after attending our Open Day, we have an Open Day frequently asked questions page.
Alternatively, please free to get in touch with our friendly team.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/student-voice/madi-open-day:
Madi Baldwin, BSc (Hons) Construction Project Management student, explores the reasons as to why you should attend an open day.
Whether you have your heart set on a particular university or you are still deciding which university is right for you, attending Open Days is something I would recommend to anybody.
I attended an Open Day when I was exploring my university options and one of the most important things for me as a disabled student was access, as well as the support offered.
I found the whole experience invaluable, as I was able to meet my now course leader, learn about the industry experience of many of my lecturers and chat to a member of staff from the Inclusive Support team.
I knew after my Open Day that UCLan was the best place for me academically and because of the level of support offered to students.
As well as this, it was so good to see the buildings I’d be studying in and visit the labs, as this was something that really interested me as I wanted to do a practical based degree.
Bring your parents/carers/partner with you
As someone who wasn’t very confident before coming to university, I benefitted so much from having in the input of both of my parents on my Open Day.
Having your parents / carers / partner there with you is another set of ears and trust me, you’ll be glad to have them there, as you will get so much information on the day.
Be sure to take a Campus Tour
If there’s one thing I wholeheartedly recommend doing on your Open Day, it’s to go on a Campus Tour.
The Campus Tours show you the entire campus, as well as all the key buildings for your course.
These tours are led by student ambassadors and it gives you time to speak to them, which is great if you want to get a student’s view on things!
Explore Preston
If you’re unfamiliar with Preston, an Open Day is a great opportunity to really explore the city.
UCLan’s campus is close by to the city centre (5-10-minute walk), so it’s convenient and a great chance to see what Preston has to offer and to picture yourself living here.
The one piece of advice that I really want you to take away from this blog is that the Open Days are there for YOU!
Make it your day and do the things you know you’ll benefit from.
Allow yourself to get a feel for the university and the course you are interested in.
Have fun and enjoy yourself, this is going to be the beginning of a very exciting chapter of your life.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/student-stories/open-day-tips:
Deciding which university to attend can be overwhelming, as it is a big decision to make.
This blog will help you to make the most out of your university Open Day, to ensure that your university of choice is right for you.
Whether you receive your Open Day pack in the post or look at the online programme, you can use it to help to plan your day.
Look at the time for your course talks (there are usually two talks during the day).
Plan if you want to go on a campus, accommodation and sports arena tour.
You can also speak to our service stands in the Student Centre.
There are also welcome talks and student life talks by current students, where you can hear about university life and ask questions about their experiences.
Planning ahead means you can get the most out of your day and don't miss any sessions you want to go to.
Plan your travel for the day.
Unfortunately, in the past there have been train strikes on Open Days.
This is something you can’t always plan for, but if you are using trains you could travel the day before and stay the night - especially if you are travelling a distance.
We do offer discounts at certain hotels .
Alternatively, you could drive or catch the bus.
The bus and train stations are a 10-minute walk from the university campus, so they are in walkable distance.
Have a look into the course you are interested in studying.
Are there any questions you have about the course or content for the academics?
This may be about placements, modules or even assessments.
You may also want to think about questions you have for our services team, including study abroad years, accommodation, application processes or even the support we have on campus.
Don’t be afraid to approach our Student Ambassadors in red.
Whether it’s for directions around campus or to ask what student life is like at UCLan.
They can also tell you about their student experience and about the course they’re studying.
There are many opportunities to get involved with at the university, like placements, a year in industry and a year abroad.
There's also the chance to become a Student Ambassador.
As Student Ambassadors, we get to be involved with campaigns and photoshoots for the university and we can tell you about our experiences, if you would like to know more.
Make the most out of your day.
Enjoy looking around the campus, talking to our friendly staff and students, getting to know potential peers and making the most of the freebies!
You usually receive a complimentary drink and there are discounts at nearby retailers for food and drinks afterwards, if you want something.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/events/offers:
Discover Preston city centre with our exclusive offers that can be redeemed in local restaurants, cafés and hotels.
To redeem an offer, please find further information in the tables below.
Terms and conditions apply, please view the offers below or contact the establishment for more information.
Please note the offers only apply to the below dates.
Event
Event Date
Offer Wrap around dates
Welcome Week/Freshers
Mon 22 – Thu 25 Sept 2025
Sat 20 – Sun 28 Sept
Sun 12 Oct 2025
Sat 11 – Sun 12 Oct
Sat 22 Nov 2025
Fri 21 – Sun 23 Nov
Graduation
Mon 9 – Fri 11 Dec 2025
Sat 8 – Sun 13 Dec
Offer: 15% off bookings year-round.
Terms and conditions apply.
Newly transformed Victorian manor hotel offering a perfect break away while visiting our Preston Campus.
Book your exclusive rate at the Delta Hotel by Marriott Preston
With convenient access to Preston's cultural attractions and entertainment venues, Delta blends contemporary convenience with timeless charm.
Delta hotel boasts a range of amenities, including a fitness centre, indoor pool, and on-site restaurants, ensuring a delightful and rejuvenating stay.
Terms and conditions Offer for the best available room/suite applies any day of the week, subject to availability.
Booking times, dates, and guest numbers can be amended via the app/website or by calling.
Rates fluctuate based on the date, occupancy, and room type, and the discount applies to the overall options.
A 24-hour cancellation policy applies.
Book your exclusive rate for the University of Central Lancashire
If you have questions or need help with the link, please call Central Reservations on +44 (0) 207 9494368 .
Offer: Set rate of £77 per night, per single occupancy room.
Complementary breakfast included.
Legacy Hotels and Resorts is a collection of properties that combine the perfect blend of character, comfort and relaxation with great value for money.
Pre-booking is essential.
Visit the Legacy Preston International Hotel website
Terms and conditions This offer only applies to our Preston hotel.
Rates apply on any day of the week and includes either a double or twin room.
Cost is for one person and includes bed and breakfast.
To add an extra person to the room and for breakfast, there is a charge of £8.
Please be aware that Saturdays have a high volume of bookings and may have limited availability.
To book a room at the discounted rate, call +44 (0)1772 255600 .
Offer: 20% off full menu including drinks.
Craving decadency in the form of freshly made confectionary?
Heavenly Desserts is in the heart of Preston, a prime location for a lunch or evening treat.
Whether you're deciding your next steps in education or celebrating a graduation, Heavenly offers an extensive variety of luxurious and signature sweet treats such as waffles, croffles, and cookie dough.
As well as refreshments like mojitos and milkshakes.
Visit Heavenly Desserts website
115 Friargate, Preston, PR1 2EE
Offer: 25% off food at PLAU and Fino from Sunday to Friday at 12-6pm.
For any other times, PLAU offers 10% off food.
Not to be used in conjunction with any other offer.
A vibrant multi-venue destination, offering an unparalleled culinary and drinking experience, whether you’re a food enthusiast, a cocktail connoisseur, or a craft beer lover, PLAU has something special in store for you.
Visit the PLAU website.
The University of Central Lancashire is not affiliated to these organisations.
Images used may not be representative of the establishments.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/campuses/preston:
Our Preston Campus is right at the heart of the city.
You'll find us minutes away from a vibrant shopping centre, attractions and nightlife.
With fantastic transport links, visiting our Preston Campus is a simple and stress-free experience.
Here are some directions and travel advice to help you find us.
Everything you need on campus is within easy reach - from our Library (open 24/7 during term time) to our lecture theatres, cafes and Students’ Union.
And all our University accommodation is located within a short walk of the campus - so you’ll never have to worry about being late for lectures.
Discover what Preston has to offer.
You’re really spoilt for choice in Preston whenever you want to catch up with friends, enjoy a big night out or hit the shops.
Take a look around our Preston Campus by viewing our 360s, galleries and more.
If you’re a new student you’ll be joining us at the perfect time as our £200 million Masterplan project has now completed.
Our ambition is to create a world-class campus where you’ll enjoy an exceptional teaching, learning and social experience.
During your time with us you’ll benefit from several exciting developments across the campus.
Firstly, you’ll love our fantastic new Social Spaces - bright, modern areas filled with comfy sofas, pool tables, table tennis tables, beanbags and study spaces, making them perfect for meeting up with friends in-between your lectures, relaxing with a coffee, or just taking some time out.
Our £60 million Student Centre opened its doors in September 2021 providing you with first-class advice and support services.
Whatever you need, we’ll help you succeed at every step of your student journey – so drop by whenever you need some expert guidance on planning your future career, getting your finances in order, improving your study skills, your health and wellbeing, accommodation and a whole lot more.
The Student Centre looks out over Adelphi Square – the new centrepiece of our stunning campus and one of the largest civic spaces to have been developed in England over the last 100 years.
It will become an iconic gateway linking together the city and the University as well as a thriving hub for student and community events.
We’re especially proud of our new £35m Engineering Innovation Centre (EIC) , which opened in 2019.
It’s an advanced, state-of-the-art teaching and research facility which provides students with real-world experience on live projects working alongside industry professionals.
Facilities include an additive manufacturing lab (3D printing), advanced manufacturing workshop, intelligent systems facility, motorsports and air vehicles lab, and flight simulator suite.
The EIC is set to establish us as one of the UK’s leading universities for innovation, producing the next generation of world-leading engineering graduates.
You’ll also love our Oasis Faith and Spirituality Centre – the perfect place to go when you need some time to relax and reflect.
It offers a warm welcome to students of all faiths or none, and there are areas for prayer and worship as well as social spaces, regular activities and a lovely rooftop garden.
Elsewhere on campus you’ll find modern laboratories and classrooms, computer suites, restaurants, the Students’ Union building and a Medical Centre.
And you can get yourself fighting fit at the Sir Tom Finney Sports Centre , which houses an impressive sports hall, squash court and two exercise studios.
It’s also home to a fully equipped fitness suite, the CardioZone (a nightclub themed workout room complete with flashing lights and banging tunes!) and a year-round programme of exercise classes.
Preston is widely regarded as one of the safest cities to live in which is why it has been awarded Purple Flag status .
While you’re studying and living on campus we want you to feel safe and secure at all time.
We have a Campus Security Team who can be contacted 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
We believe that bullying, harassment, sexual assault and harassment, domestic abuse, hate crime and discrimination are never ok.
If you are visiting our campuses and experience any such issues please report it to us .
We work alongside AccessAble to ensure that all our prospective and current students, staff and visitors have clear information on the accessibility of our buildings.
These guides include information about lighting, wheelchair access, accessible toilets and much more.
View our Preston guide here where you will find individual guides for each of our buildings.
We aim to create physical social spaces to be inclusive to everyone and meet the needs of our staff and students.
Please visit inclusive spaces for more details.
If you’re visiting our Preston Campus after travelling a long way, you can find a range of hotels and accommodation near the station and in Preston city centre, only a few minutes’ walk from campus.
Preston has a wide range of hotels catering for all travellers, with accommodation near the train station, a short walk away from our campus, or on the outskirts of the city.
Select from the list below or do your own research to find a relaxing spot that works for you to take a well-earned rest.
The University of Central Lancashire does not endorse or approve external websites or services.
For more information, please see our disclaimer .
Holiday Inn Ringway, Preston Tel: +44 (0)870 4009066
Legacy International Hotel Marsh Lane, Preston Tel: +44 (0)844 411 9028
Premier Inn Fox Street, Preston, PR1 2AB Tel: +44 (0)333 321 8335
The Samlesbury Hotel Preston New Rd, Samlesbury, Preston PR5 0UL Tel: +44 (0)1772 868000
Tickled Trout Preston New Road, Salmesbury, Preston Tel: +44 (0)1772 877671
Travel Inn Bluebell Way, Preston Tel: +44 (0)1772 651580
Travelodge Hotels in Preston Tel: 08719 846150
You can also find other accommodation around Preston on Tripadvisor.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/campuses/burnley:
Our friendly campus community in Burnley welcomes students from all over the world.
Study undergraduate, postgraduate and degree apprenticeship courses with us.
Wherever you’re from, you’ll find you belong in Burnley.
Explore our Burnley Campus on a student-led tour.
This will cover course facilities, student accommodation and the Students' Union.
You'll have the chance to chat with current students and hear about university life.
It's the perfect way to get to know campus.
To add to the private student accommodation available in and around Burnley, in 2020 we opened Sandygate Hall.
With 136 ensuite bedrooms in 29 flats and student hub social areas including flexible working spaces and a flat-screen TV, you’ll feel right at home.
Supporting you is second nature to us.
Whatever you need, our Student Services Team can help you with every aspect of university life.
Accommodation, financial matters and personal wellbeing are just some of the topics our team can offer advice and support on.
And if you need help with your course, our Course Administration Service (CAS) Hub is there for you.
Burnley is home to a growing community of students, who love its food scene and vibrant nightlife.
There's plenty to do in Burnley, from entertainment and sport, to relaxing green spaces.
Find out more about student life in Burnley.
Whatever you need to make the most of your study time, you’ll find it here.
Our classrooms, labs and computer suites offer the most up-to-date facilities.
The library has comfortable study areas and access to thousands of books and online resources.
Depending on your course, you’ll also get to use our state-of-the-art manufacturing suite, observation suite and moot courtroom.
There’s plenty to do around campus when you’re not studying.
Check out our Students’ Union hub.
They’ll help you get the most out of your time here, from clubs and societies to social activities, course representation and much more.
And if fitness is your thing, grab a membership to Burnley Leisure Centre, with its fantastic fitness suite, pool and range of classes.
We’re easy to get to by car or public transport.
We know you may be travelling a long way to attend an open day here, so we’ve put together a list of local hotels for you to take a well-earned rest.
We do not endorse or approve external sites or services, please read our disclaimer .
Crow Wood Hotel and Spa Resort Holme Road, Burnley, BB12 0RT Tel: +44 (0)1282 227722
Holiday Inn Express Burnley 55 Pendle Way, Burnley, BB12 0TJ Tel: +44 (0)1282 855955
Premier Inn Burnley Queen Victoria Road, Burnley, BB10 3EF Tel: +44 (0)333 777 3968
Travelodge Burnley Barracks Road, Burnley, BB11 4SB Tel: +44 (0)871 984 6125
You can find accommodation for Burnley on:
If you experience any such issues while you’re here, please report it to us .
We work with AccessAble so that everyone has clear information on the accessibility of our buildings.
View our Burnley Campus guide where you'll find guides for each of our buildings.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/campuses/westlakes:
If you’re looking for a refreshing change of lifestyle and access to the great outdoors then you’ll love studying at our Westlakes Campus in Cumbria, which offers global opportunities in stunning surroundings.
Our picturesque campus is based on the Westlakes Science and Technology Park in the tranquil surroundings of West Cumbria, just three miles from Whitehaven.
Here, we offer a range of innovative and vocational courses in Medicine and Nursing.
Our campus is a bright, modern learning environment where you’ll have access to state-of-the-art facilities, including clinical skills laboratories.
It’s also home to the University’s National Centre for Remote and Rural Medicine (NCRRM), which trains clinicians in all aspects of medicine relating to living, working and recreation in remote and rural environments.
Our Westlakes Campus is playing an instrumental role in enhancing the economic, social and cultural standing of the local area, which is often described as Britain’s ‘energy coast.’ The presence of leading energy industries in the locality is driving innovation, attracting inward investment and creating truly global opportunities for graduates in the fields of science, technology and engineering.
Studying at Westlakes opens up exciting opportunities for you to undertake placements in rural communities and gain work experience with global companies.
You’ll benefit from small class sizes and a friendly, supportive environment.
On site you’ll find a well-stocked library, computer suites, a restaurant and a coffee shop.
We also offer free parking on campus.
And we're always available whenever you need advice or support – our Student Services Team are on campus to help you with every aspect of University life, including accommodation, financial matters, council tax exemption forms and letter requests, personal wellbeing and a whole lot more.
At Westlakes you’re within easy reach of restaurants, bars, supermarkets, high street stores and medical centres located in nearby Whitehaven, just three miles from the campus and easily reached by public transport.
If you’ve got a taste for adventure then you’ll love spending your weekends in the nearby Lake District, England’s largest national park and a UNESCO World Heritage Site, with endless opportunities for hiking, watersports or just soaking up the breathtaking scenery.
It’s home to England’s highest mountain, Scafell Pike, and its largest lake, Windermere, together with Wasdale Head, which was recently voted ‘Britain’s Favourite View.’ To the north is the Solway Coast Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty (AONB), while St Bee’s Head along the western edge marked the start of Alfred Wainwright’s famous coast-to-coast walk.
Student support at our Westlakes Campus
Westlakes Research Ltd.
(WRL) is a public benefit educational charity established in 1992.
Since 2005 it has been a member of the University of Central Lancashire family of organisations.
Being a member provides access to the academic work undertaken at the University.
Based in West Cumberland, the University undertakes research in a location of great social and economic variety.
However, the activities of WRL are in no way limited to this area.
The research covers:
In partnership with the Centre for Citizenship and Community , we work to identify effective means of increasing community capital.
The research focuses on working-class, coastal communities who are often regarded as being ‘left-behind.'
The aim of the research is to develop a relational approach to working with socially excluded communities on the Cumbrian coast.
The research aims to provide opportunities to take part in local democracy.
There is a perceived difficulty in recruiting professional and senior staff to “good” jobs in West Cumberland.
The research generates new knowledge and new perspectives on the region, to develop processes and initiatives that can enrich the cultural understanding of the place, and help to inform the ways in which it is viewed by local people, visitors, and the wider public.
A currently disjointed health care system has not advanced the health of the local population.
We aim to understand how aspects of settings, environments and places affect health and wellbeing.
This will provide recommendations and guidelines for sustainable governance.
This research has developed a framework to measure public value.
This measure is used in policy settings based upon public value, human value, governance and institutional design theories, models and frameworks.
We work with a range of organisations in public and private sectors to create and communicate their public value profiles in a series of in-depth case studies.
Our picturesque Westlakes Campus in Cumbria is located near Whitehaven.
View our John Fyfe Building (previously Samuel Lindow Building) - Westlakes Campus guide here .

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/study:
The University of Central Lancashire is a great place to learn and grow.
Our courses are designed to equip you with the knowledge and skills you need for a successful career.
You'll be taught by academics who are experts in their field, including active researchers and industry leaders.
Studying at UCLan is an unforgettable student experience.
We have a diverse student community, with lots going on around campus.
We're also the most affordable university in the UK (The Times, 2023), so you can enjoy student life for less.
Study an undergraduate degree at the University of Central Lancashire.
We have a range of courses to choose from, so you can find the right degree for you.
You will benefit from our excellent facilities and outstanding support.
We also offer courses with a foundation year and return to study programmes if you don't have the grades you need.
Our postgraduate degrees prepare you to take your next big step, whether that's further study or progression in your career.
You can build on knowledge from your undergraduate degree or study something new - just check the entry requirements.
We facilitate different ways to study to suit your needs.
See what’s on offer and discover the funding available to you.
Degree Apprenticeships allow you to learn and earn at the same time.
You will study alongside your employment, allowing you to gain hands-on experience.
This can enhance your career prospects.
Your fees will also be paid by the government or your employer, so you don't have to worry about a student loan.
Research is a fundamental part of what we do.
It enables us to provide real-word solutions that have an impact on society.
Join our researchers when you undertake a postgraduate research degree.
You will explore your chosen subject at greater depth and contribute to the knowledge in that field.
Our continuing professional development (CPD) and short courses allow you to gain knowledge and skills in a range of specialist areas.
These are a great way to demonstrate expert knowledge and enhance your CV.
We have a wide choice of courses available to suit you.
We work with partner institutions to deliver learning near you.
Choose from a range of courses, including full honours degrees.
These will be taught by our partner and delivered to the same high standards.
That means you can still study a quality degree in a way that's convenient and local to you.
We have a diverse student community and welcome international students from all over the world.
There's a wide range of courses, subjects and campuses to choose from.
Find all the information you need to study a degree in the UK.
Keep up-to-date with UCLan's latest news and events by following our social media channels.
Like us, follow us or watch us to get the latest updates from the University.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/study/fees-and-finance/uk-students:
If you're a UK/home student you'll find information about tuition fees for each year of study here.
This includes undergraduate, postgraduate taught and research, and non-standard course fees
From 1 August 2025 fees will rise for UK/home undergraduate students from £9,250 per year, to £9,535 per year.
UK/home students in this instance relate to UK and EU settled and pre-settled students (home fee status).
If you're a UK/home student, you won't see higher monthly repayments.
The amount you would repay each year is calculated solely on what you earn, not what you borrow.
In addition, UK/home students’ maintenance loans will rise by 3.1% in line with inflation.
This means you'll be able to borrow a maximum of £414 extra funding for each year starting from academic year 2025/26.
A maintenance loan is paid directly to you and is intended for living costs such as accommodation and food.
The amount you can claim for maintenance loans will continue to be means tested.
EU/international students or postgraduate students are not affected by this announcement.
These fees have already been set by the university and published for 2025/26 academic year.
Tuition fees have remained largely the same for 12 years and in that time inflation has risen significantly.
This means that the money universities receive from your fees is effectively worth much less than it was years ago.
This has reduced our ability to fund the infrastructure to deliver your course and support your learning as effectively as we would like.
Despite the fee increase, it's important to remember that investing in a degree remains fantastic value for money.
You are the skilled workforce of the future.
Industry figures show that by age 31, graduate salaries are 37% more than their counterparts who didn’t go to university (Universities UK, 2024).
For more information, view our frequently asked questions about the increase in tuition
Full-time fees are per-year and part-time fees are charged per 20 credits studied unless otherwise stated.
Visit our webpage for additional fee information on full-time postgraduate research degrees.
In the UK, you can access higher education through a range of loan and funding options.
There are loans available from the Government for undergraduate, postgraduate and postgraduate research degrees.
All UK full-time students can apply for an undergraduate loan to cover their tuition fees.
If you normally live in England, you'll need to apply via Student Finance England .
They will check your eligibility and that of your chosen course.
If you're eligible, Student Finance England will pay your tuition fees straight to your university.
You won't need to pay anything upfront.
If you normally live in Scotland , Wales or Northern Ireland you will have different support available.
Maintenance loans are also available from Student Finance England to help with day-to-day living costs, such as rent and bills.
You can apply for the loan whatever your living situation is.
For example if you're staying in student accommodation or living at home and commuting .
Maintenance loans are based on your household income.
If eligible, then the maintenance loan is paid direct into your bank account.
You'll need to pay the loan back once you've graduated and are earning enough.
Whilst tuition fees will increase for 2025/26, so will the maintenance loan.
This means that you will be entitled to up to £414 more per year starting in 2025/26.
The application process is simple.
You can find out more and apply on the Student Finance England website .
You will only start to repay both your tuition fee and maintenance loans once you are working and earning enough.
Visit the student loan repayment site for more information.
If you’re thinking of studying a master’s degree, you could be eligible for a loan from the Government to help you study.
This will help cover tuition fees and living costs and is paid directly to you.
If your course lasts for more than one year, your loan will be divided over each year.
Find out more on the Student Finance England website .
You'll start paying the loan back once you're working and earning over a certain amount, just like the undergraduate loans.
You can find out more on the Government website .
Funding is different if you normally live in Scotland , Wales or Northern Ireland .
Some universities may off scholarships or bursaries for postgraduate study.
For example, if you previously studied at undergraduate level.
We offer an Alumni Loyalty Discount to our graduates for most postgraduate courses.
If you want to study a postgraduate research degree as a UK/home student, you might be eligible for a postgraduate doctoral loan from the Government.
This can help with course fees and living costs.
You'll start repaying the loan once you're working and earning over the specified threshold.
Funding will be different if you normally live in Wales .
Many universities offer studentships but they can be competitive.
Find out more about our studentships .
To find out more about funding, additional fees associated with your research programme visit our postgraduate research fees pages .
Our Student Support Team are here to help, and they can tell you about any additional funding you may be eligible for.
If you’re still in need of some advice and guidance you can email our Student Fees and Funding Team .
Alternatively, if you are on campus you can call into see the Student Support Team on the lower ground floor of the Student Centre.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/study/fees-and-finance/faqs:
If you're planning to study at university, it's important to know about how much it will cost you.
These frequently asked questions (FAQs) provide key information on tuition fees, available funding, and your fee status.
Fees will be going up at all universities from 1 August 2025, not just the University of Central Lancashire.
The government made this decision, but it is supported by universities.
Tuition fees have stayed largely the same for 12 years, while inflation has risen significantly.
This means that the money universities received from fees was effectively worth less each year.
This has put some universities at financial risk or in a position where they can’t make necessary improvements.
All UK undergraduate students studying at universities from 1 August 2025 onwards will be affected by the increase.
So this will affect current and new UK undergraduate students.
UK in this cases applies to UK and EU settled and pre-settled students (home fee status).
Most universities will use the extra fees to help fund the provision of your course.
It will also help make university sector finances more stable.
Tuition fees have mainly stayed the same for 12 years, and in that time inflation has gone up significantly.
From 1 August 2025 fees will rise for UK undergraduate students from £9,250 per year, to £9,535 per year.
If you are a UK/home part-time undergraduate student, your fees will increase pro-rata in line with the annual fees .
This also applies to those on an integrated master's course.
If you're an EU/international or part-time master's student your fees will not change for 2025/26 as these have already been confirmed.
EU and international students are not affected by the fee increase in August 2025 as these fees have already been set by the university.
They have been published for 2025/26 academic year on our webpage .
Postgraduate taught (master's degree) students are not affected by the government fee increase.
However, UK/home integrated masters students will be affected by the fee increase from August 2025.
Integrated master's degrees are classed as an undergraduate course with undergraduate fees.
If you're a postgraduate research student you will not affected by the fee increase in August 2025.
Postgraduate research fees have already been set by the university and published for 2025/26 academic year.
UK/home students’ maintenance loans will rise by around 3.1% in line with inflation in August 2025.
This means a maximum of £414 extra funding can be borrowed to support each year starting from academic year 2025/26.
The amount students can claim for maintenance loans will continue to be means tested.
The majority of students won't notice the increase, as the Student Loans Company pays your fees directly to your university.
However, the amount you owe the Student Loans Company will increase.
Student loans aren’t repayable until you reach a certain salary.
As of 2024, this is between £24,990 -£31,395, depending on which student loan plan you are on .
If you pay your fees directly (and you don’t have a loan) then the increase will be added to your invoice and you will pay as usual.
The total amount you owe the Student Loans Company will increase.
As of 2024, this is between £24,990 -£31,395, depending on which student loan plan you are on.
However, if you pay fees directly and do not have a loan, it means you will need to fund this increase each year.
It is important that fees are paid on time, and you will lose access to your studies if they are not.
This could include losing access to systems, not being able to submit assignments, go on placements, or appeal grades.
If you receive a means tested maintenance loan, you'll receive increase in this from 1 August 2025, by around 3.1%.
The government says this will provide students with up to £414 extra per year.
In addition to the increased maintenance loan coming in from 2025, a range of support is available, including:
You should apply for your student loan as soon as you've applied to study at university.
The application process varies depending on where you live in the UK.
For full details and to submit an application visit the relevant website below:
A student loan is made up of two parts
The amount of maintenance loan you receive will depend on your household income and other factors.
Such as whether you will be living at home or in student accommodation.
When you apply for your student loan you’ll be asked to provide some evidence of your parent or carers earnings.
Such as a P60 form, bank statements or proof that you’re receiving benefits.
If you wish to check your eligibility for a student loan or have any issues with the application process, please contact Student Finance England (SFE) directly.
We are unable to advise on any student loan applications.
A maintenance loan is a loan from the UK Government to help students with living costs while they are studying at university.
It is intended to cover living costs such as accommodation, food, transport, and other personal costs during the academic year.
The amount you can borrow depends on different factors.
This could include your household income and where you live during your studies (for example whether you live at home or away).
It may also depend on the course you're studying.
The loan is repayable, usually after you graduate, and repayment terms are based on your income.
You'll usually receive the loan directly in instalments throughout the year.
This is different to a tuition fee loan, which is paid directly to your university.
You must meet the following criteria to receive your maintenance loan from Student Finance England (SFE):
Typically, we will confirm attendance with SFE from the start of term onwards.
This means you can expect to receive your money three to five working days from the start of term if the above criteria has been met.
The amount of tuition fees you pay will depend on your fee status.
You will be categorised as either UK/home or EU/international.
UK/home students are charged a standard fee set by the UK government.
They are subsidised by the UK government so are lower than EU and international fees.
EU and international fees can vary depending on the course and university.
They are not subsidised by the UK government.
EU and international students may have different eligibility for funding and scholarships compared to UK/home students.
Your fee status is based on your residency and nationality.
You will be categorised as either UK/home or EU/international, based on specific criteria including:
Residency: this is where you have been living for the three years before you start the course.
You need to have been living (not just studying) in the UK, Channel Islands or the Isle of Man for at least three years before you enrol.
Nationality: you may qualify as a UK/home student based on your nationality or citizenship.
For example if you have Indefinite Leave to Remain or settled status.
If you're from the EU, EEA or Switzerland you may be considered international unless you have UK residency rights.
Immigration status: you may be eligible for UK/home fee status depending on your immigration status.
For example, if you're a refugee or have leave to remain as a family member of a UK citizen.
The information above is not exhaustive as there are many potential factors that could affect your fee status.
Please email the Student Support Team if you're unsure and would like more information.
It's important to mention that the maintenance loan you receive is unlikely to be enough for you to live on.
In particular, it may not cover the full costs of your student accommodation.
When you apply for a place in a hall of residence you may be asked to pay a deposit and/or a month’s rent upfront.
This will be before you've received your student loan.
It may come as a surprise that the government expects your parent or guardian to contribute towards your living costs during your time at university.
You might want to sit down and work out how much money they're able to contribute towards your living costs and how much you're going to need each week.
If this isn't possible, you could consider getting a part-time job to top up your income while you're at university.
In addition, you may be asked to contribute towards a small number of items which are essential for your course.
Such as basic equipment, textbooks and attendance on field trips.
You’ll receive details from the university when you apply.
You will need to set up a student bank account for their student loan to be paid into.
Many banks offer attractive incentives for students setting up new accounts.
From cinema tickets to railcards offering generous discounts on travel – so shop around to find the best deal.
Most students apply for a maintenance loan to help with living costs.
The amount you receive will depend on your personal circumstances, such as your household income and whether you live away from home or with your family.
You can use the student finance calculator on the Government website to help you work this out.
Costs can vary depending on your lifestyle and spending habits, so it's important to budget carefully and keep track of your expenses.
Some expenses you will need to include on your budget are:
Is your parent or carer in a position to support you financially during your time at university?
You can help them research how much they need to save.
You could also use a contribution calculator to work out what financial support is reasonable for them to provide.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/study/fees-and-finance/paying-your-fees:
Your tuition fee is calculated based on your study profile.
Once a profile is created it will generate an associated fee.
There are a range of options available for payment of fees.
If you're a UK student, you can apply for a tuition fee loan to cover your university tuition fees.
It's your responsibility to apply for funding and you'll need to check if both you and your course are eligible.
Loans are available at both undergraduate and postgraduate level .
If you have accessed a student loan before, this might affect new applications.
If you can't get a student loan then you'll be expected to pay fees directly to us.
If you're paying your own fees there different payment options available to you.
This will depend on your course and your nationality.
Makes sure you keep your contact information like your address, phone number and email up to date on MyUCLan .
If your employer or sponsor is paying your tuition fees you will need to email a letter from them with details of where to send the invoice.
This letter should include your university registration number, which usually starts with G.
Please include any purchase order number or other relevant reference.
Your employer or sponsor will be expected to pay when they receive the invoice.
Employer or sponsor letters should be emailed to the Student Fees and Funding Team .
If a sponsor letter is not received before billing begins, you (the student) will receive an invoice directly in the first instance.
Payments should be made to the University in the following ways:
All UK bank transfers are to be made using the Flywire secure portal .
Please select GBP as your currency.
All UK card payments must be paid using the online payment facility .
When making a payment please quote your student registration number.
This usually is an eight digit number starting with the letter G.
It can be found on your ID card, offer letter, or invoice.
If you are an international student making a payment by bank transfer or card, please use the Flywire secure portal to make a payment.
An instalment plan of three equal payments linked to the three Student Loan Company (SLC) payment dates:
You will receive an invoice containing instructions on how to pay your fees.
You'll be expected to make your payments on or before the due dates.
If your course lasts a minimum of nine months and the fees exceed £400, you can pay by direct debit.
This will be in six equal instalments:
On completion of enrolment you will be set up with access to the Fee Portal .
In here you will be able to submit your bank details within the Direct Debit section.
This is only available if you are eligible for this payment method.
Follow the instructions to complete the direct debit mandate.
You will be sent confirmation of the payment dates and amounts before the first payment is debited.
If your course lasts a minimum of nine months and the fees exceed £400, you can pay in instalments.
The instalment plan is three equal payments aligned to the postgraduate loan schedule from the Student Loan Company (SLC):
You will receive an invoice with detailed payment instructions.
If you are a postgraduate research student and need to pay bench fees, you must pay these in full at enrolment each year.
The fees will be split into the instalment dates on the invoice.
You will be expected to make payment on or before the due date.
See our information on tuition fees for full details on the fee charging structure for international students.
You must pay 50% of your first-year tuition fees as a deposit to release your CAS.
The remaining 50% balance will be due at the start of your second semester of study.
For our MBBS and BVMS programmes, you'll be required to pay a 30% deposit to release your CAS.
The remaining 70% balance will be due in two equal instalments in your second semester of study.
This should be before the University’s published enrolment deadline.
You may be entitled to an Early Payment Bursary of £500.
The Early Payment Bursary will not apply if:
You can choose to pay in two instalments:
If you pay by instalments you will need to pay a £200 administration fee.
The remaining balance for MBBS or BVMS must be paid:
You'll need to pay a 30% deposit to release your CAS.
The remaining 70% balance will be due in two equal instalments.
The remaining 50% balance will be due on Tuesday 6 May 2025.
If you choose to pay by instalments you'll need to pay a £200 administration fee.
There are separate fee payment conditions for international students on the MBBS, BVMS and BDS (international) programmes.
The remaining 50% balance will be due on:
Pay in full on enrolment or split your payment into three instalments:
Tuesday 5 May 2026
If your course lasts longer than nine months and the fees exceed £400, you can pay by direct debit.
This will be in six equal instalments as follows:
For our MBBS , BDSI and BVMS programmes, you'll be required to pay a 30% deposit to release your CAS.
The remaining balance for MBBS, BDSI or BVMS must be paid:
On making a payment via Flywire or the Online Payment form you will automatically be provided with an email receipt within 5 minutes of making your payment.
Please note the University does not provide any additional receipts so please ensure your retain the email receipt which you receive.
Please note that tuition fees under £5,500 are not available to be paid via instalment.
Should you require a payment arrangement then please contact the Accounts Receivable team by email caccounts@uclan.ac.uk to request this.
The University no longer accepts student payments via direct bank transfers into a University bank account.
Should you wish to pay via bank transfer then please use the Flywire payment portal .
Please note that any payment made to the University is liable to be checked to ensure it is compliant and in line with University payment policies as well as wider legislation around anti money laundering.
As a result of this you may be required to provide additional information about the customer and payer in order for your payment(s) to be processed and accepted by the University.
Please ensure you have all information available and ready for review.
Any payment(s) which cannot be verified and checked maybe returned to source by the University Finance team.
If you know you are not going to be able to make a payment in line with an agreed date, please contact the Accounts Receivable Team in Financial Services at the earliest opportunity.
Where possible the team will work with you to come to a suitable agreement or payment arrangement.
Blackboard access is removed when a payment for tuition fees is more than 30 days overdue as a financial hold is applied.
In order to reinstate this access, the outstanding balance of your tuition fee must be paid or a payment arrangement should be agree with the Accounts Receivable team.
Access to Blackboard is usually restored within 24 hours of the payment or arrangement being made.
Restricted access to Blackboard will mean that you will not be able to access learning materials, submit work or attend online assessments.
If you believe that your payments are all up to date or, that you have exceptional circumstances for non-payment, please call the Accounts Receivable Team on +44 (0)1772 891828 (option 5) to discuss.
Continued delays to making your payment may affect your ability to enrol onto further years of study, attend graduation or receive any certificates or transcripts

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/study/fees-and-finance/paying-your-fees/online-payments-info:
The University prefers to receive payments of invoices via secure online payments using our web payment facilities.
This includes payment of tuition fees.
Tuition fees can be paid by instalments subject to the prevailing payment terms for the academic year.
You can request to pay by instalments using our online payment facility .
To use our online payment facilities you will need:
Once you have successfully made your payment you will receive an email receipt which you should keep as proof of payment.
Terms and conditions
These are included within our online payment policies detailed below.
Please ensure you read these terms and conditions carefully before using this Online Payment Facility.
Using the online payment facility indicates that you accept these terms and conditions.
Therefore, if you do not accept these terms and conditions do not use this facility.
The online payment facility is provided by the University of Central Lancashire through Agresso Web Payments.
This Online Payment Facility is for payments made by, or on behalf of Students.
“Student/s” means student/s registered with the University.
Payments can be made by the approved credit or debit cards illustrated by the logos displayed on this Online Payment Facility.
All prices quoted are in GBP - UK pound Sterling.
The University reserves the right to change the fees at any time.
Payments can only be accepted in GBP – UK pound Sterling.
Any currency conversion costs or other charges or costs incurred by you in making the payment or in processing a refund shall be borne by you, and shall not be deductible from any fees due to the University.
Payments will be applied to the Student’s University account in accordance with the details submitted electronically.
The University cannot accept liability for a payment not reaching the correct University account due to you quoting incorrect details.
The University cannot accept liability if payment is refused or declined by the credit/debit card supplier for any reason.
If the card supplier declines payment the University is under no obligation to bring this fact to your attention.
You should check with your bank/credit/debit card supplier that payment has been deducted from your account.
Payments are not collected by the University directly but by WorldPay (the “Service Provider”).
Once payment is received by the Service Provider in cleared funds, the Service Provider will contact the University to confirm the details of the successful payment made by you.
On receipt of this confirmation, the University will confirm to the Student that the payment has been received and accepted by the University.
In the event that the Student does not receive confirmation within fourteen (14) days of making the payment it is the responsibility of the Student to check with the University that the payment has been received and accepted.
The Student shall remain responsible for all fees until such time as confirmation is received from the University that full payment has been received and accepted, including any outstanding amounts owed to the University.
Refunds, if applicable, will only be made to the debit/credit card used for the original payment.
If the Student leaves the University before they complete their programme, any entitlement to a refund of tuition fees will be made in line with the prevailing Tuition Fee Policy at any time the Student leaves.
The Conditions of Residence set out the terms for early termination of student accommodation contracts with UCLan (including any applicable refunds).
In no event will the University, its suppliers, or any other third parties mentioned on this site be liable (to the extent permitted by law) for any loss or damage (including without limitation, those resulting from lost profits, lost data or business interruption), arising from or in connection with your use, inability to use, or the results of use of this site, any websites linked to this site, or the materials or information contained at any or all such sites.
Payment via this Online Payment Facility does not on its own indicate the existence of a contract or constitute an agreement between you and the University or the Student and the University for the provision of the services to the Student.
A contract will only come into being when separate conditions for the provision of a service have been fulfilled.
Any information contained within this Online Payment Facility in respect of any fees due are provided for guidance only.
The definitive amount of fees payable will be notified to the Student by the Finance department and shall be made available to the Student within a reasonable period on request.
All payment details which are entered through WorldPay are encrypted when you enter them.
Communications to and from the Service Providers’ website are encrypted.
The University shall not be liable for any failure by you, the Student or any third party to properly protect data from being seen on screen by other persons or otherwise obtained by such persons, either before, during or after the online payment process or in respect of any omission to provide accurate information in the course of the online payment process.
The University provides this Online Payment Facility as a service to you.
The University is committed to respecting and protecting your privacy.
The University will only use information entered on this website for the following purposes:
Occasionally, the University might need to share your information with other organisations to fulfil the above purposes.
The University will not otherwise sell, license or trade your personal information to others.
The University does not provide your personal information to direct marketing companies or other such organisations.
The University does not store your credit or debit card information after payments have been processed.
By using this facility you consent to the collection and use of your personal information in accordance with these terms and conditions.
Though the terms and conditions has been developed to take account of changes in internet technology it is subject to change and any such changes will only be notified on this page.
The processing of personal data is regulated by the Data Protection Act 1998.
The terms will be governed by and construed in accordance with English Law, without giving effect to any principles of Conflicts of Laws.
The English Courts will have exclusive jurisdiction to deal with any dispute which may arise out of or in connection with these terms and conditions.
See also the Legal section of the University website.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/legal/privacy-notices:
Browse our privacy notices relating to the University and its various stakeholders.
This privacy notice tells you what to expect us to do with your personal information for ad hoc workers.
This privacy notice tells you what to expect us to do with your personal information when you complete and pass your course and become one of our alumni, donate to, or support the University.
This privacy notice tells you what to expect us to do with your personal information when you apply to study at the University.
This privacy notice tells you what to expect us to do with your personal information when you apply to study with us on the postgraduate
diploma in International Medical Sciences as part of the AUC UK Track.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/medicine-mbbs:
Sign up for an Open Day
Our degree in medicine (MBBS) will train you to become a professional, compassionate doctor.
Offering an innovative approach to medical education, we focus on early patient contact.
You'll see patients in clinical settings from the very first year.
Start your journey to becoming a doctor in the UK with our outstanding teaching in state-of-the-art facilities.
We have created a welcoming, multicultural environment.
Our MBBS programme places considerable emphasis on developing your expertise in a whole range of practical areas, including clinical, communication, observation, teamwork and leadership skills.
You’ll spend Years 1 and 2 largely on campus in Preston .
In Years 3, 4 and 5 you will study at either the Burnley or Westlakes campus.
You'll also undertake clinical placements in a wide variety of locations preparing you for a career as a qualified doctor.
As part of the course assessments you will undertake both components of the Medical Licensing Assessment, so will graduate with this completed.
This course is open to international (non-UK) students and UK students.
In line with our aim to create a representative workforce, we will apply a weighting to applicants who meet our widening participation criteria.
To help you with your medicine application we have created an applicant guide .
If you don't meet the entry requirements for the MBBS, you may wish to consider a foundation year:
MBBS student, Saba Tasleem tells us why she moved from Canada to study Medicine in the UK
In this module you'll learn how to study and apply biomedical scientific knowledge to the subject of medicine.
You'll also develop skills in self-directed learning.
This module introduces you to social science, statistics, epidemiology, and humanities in healthcare, complementing your biomedical and clinical training.
It emphasises evidence-based healthcare, research, and understanding the role of research data in disease prevention and health policy.
The aim of this module is to build the attributes and behaviours which are expected of a safe and effective clinician and demonstrate the concept of professional practice within the healthcare team.
It will develop your initial skills to communicate effectively with patients, carers and healthcare professionals and guide you to demonstrate initial competence in the practical procedures and clinical skills required of trainees.
We aim with this module to build on the knowledge and skills you have developed in your previous study and further your biomedical scientific knowledge and skills which is relevant to studying the subject of medicine.
This module builds on previous learning to further develop your knowledge of social science, statistics, and humanities-based approaches to health, illness and medicine.
It enhances your biomedical and clinical training, focusing on professional knowledge and key skills in application and analysis.
The module also looks at evidence-based healthcare and research to inform treatment and promote health.
This module will build the attributes and behaviours which are expected of a safe and effective clinician and demonstrate the concept of professional practice within the healthcare team.
You will develop skills to communicate effectively with patients, carers and healthcare professionals.
In this module you will apply knowledge of the basic sciences gained in Years 1 and 2 to the further study of medicine within the clinical setting.
You'll become familiar with the pathophysiology, presentation, investigation and management of the common medical conditions relevant to the module.
The third year of the EIPOM will continue to reinforce concepts of evidence-based healthcare and the use of research to inform the treatment of illness and promote health within society.
This will occur in the context of work-based placements in a range of settings.
This allows you to refine your evidence-based medicine skills within a clinical setting and apply your knowledge of social science to inform your practice of medicine.
This module will enable you to develop the attributes and behaviours expected of a safe and effective doctor.
You'll explore the concept of professional practice within the healthcare team and learn how to communicate effectively with patients, carers and healthcare professionals.
You'll also demonstrate competence in the practical procedures and clinical skills required of a doctor in training.
In this module you will continue your study of medicine within the clinical setting, revisiting some specialities in a spiral fashion following your study in Year 3 whilst some others will be new.
You will develop knowledge with pathophysiology, presentation, investigation and management of the common medical conditions relevant to the module.
The fourth year of the EIPOM theme will continue to reinforce concepts of evidence based healthcare.
Here you'll use research to inform the treatment of illness and to promote health within society.
This will occur within the context of work-based placements in a range of settings.
This will allow you to refine your evidence based medicine skills within a clinical setting.
Apply your knowledge of the social science disciplines to inform your practice of medicine.
The aims of this module are to build your attributes and behaviours which are expected of a safe and effective doctor and demonstrate the concept of professional practice within the healthcare team.
You'll also develop your communication skills with patients, carers and healthcare professionals.
This  module will focus on your knowledge and skills to support a smooth transition from undergraduate to postgraduate pre-registration practice.
Application of your skills and conducting critical reflection will ensure you have competency in the full range of duties required for professional status.
Every effort has been made to ensure the accuracy of our published course information.
However, our programmes are subject to ongoing review and development.
Changing circumstances may cause alteration to, or the cancellation of, courses.
Changes may be necessary to comply with the requirements of accrediting bodies or revisions to subject benchmarks statements.
We may also make changes to keep courses updated and contemporary, or as a result of student feedback.
We reserve the right to make variations if we consider such action to be necessary or in the best interests of students.
Work-based learning is incorporated in the programme from Year 1 and will be in a variety of settings.
You’ll undertake one placement in a GP practice and one in community clinics in Year 1.
There are a further 12 days of clinical placements in Year 2 to prepare you for Year 3.
The majority of learning in Years 3, 4 and 5 will be work-based learning undertaking supervised clinical placements at our partner clinical providers in both primary and secondary care.
Examples include East Lancashire Hospitals NHS Trust, North Cumbria Integrated Care NHS Foundation Trust and GP practices in East Lancashire, Cumbria,  Blackpool Hospital NHS Trust, North West Boroughs NHS Foundation Trust and others.
Examples include East Lancashire Hospitals NHS Trust, North Cumbria Integrated Care NHS Foundation Trust, GP practices in the North West, Blackpool Teaching Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, University Hospitals of Morecambe Bay NHS Foundation Trust and others.
At the end of Year 5 you will have the opportunity to develop your research skills throughout the programme by undertaking student selected components in each year.
Successful completion of the course will enable you to meet core requirements as a junior doctor and allow you to apply for provisional registration with the General Medical Council.
Find out more about how to become a doctor .
There are multiple options available upon graduation from the MBBS programme.
All graduates are eligible to apply to the UK Foundation Programme .
Entry onto this programme requires an applicant to have the right to work in the UK and involves a competitive process with other UK and EU graduates.
Places on this programme are not guaranteed for every UK graduate.
There are also a number of postgraduate training routes available to our MBBS graduates and our Transitions Lead will work with you on a prospective and proactive basis, from early in training, to facilitate onward working across the globe.
If you have a country-specific enquiry regarding postgraduate training and working after the MBBS programme please contact us.
There may be some issues if you wish to work in Singapore or Malaysia after graduation.
Please contact us prior to application for further information.
Offering an innovative approach to medical education, we focus on early patient contact - you’ll see patients from the very first year in both community and hospital settings.
Please note we only have a very limited number of places available for UK students.
Eligible applicants will be asked to attend an interview.
Interviews took place between 2 December 2024 to 13 December 2024.
No other interview dates will be offered.
We welcome applications from applicants that meet our widening participation criteria.
Contextual admissions takes account of additional information about an applicant’s background that might have impacted their education.
Upon receipt of your application, some applicants will be asked to complete a transferable skills statement.
Guidance on how to complete the form is available.
To view more specific entry requirements for your country, please see the international entry requirements webpage .
This course will involve you working with vulnerable groups of individuals, including children.
In order to ensure that the University offers places on their programmes to suitable candidates you will all be required to obtain a satisfactory Enhanced Disclosure and Barring Service clearance (formerly termed CRB).
This will be arranged by us.
For international students, an in-country police check is also required.
We will be able to guide you through this process once you have been offered a conditional place of study at the University of Central Lancashire.
It is important to note that should your Enhanced Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) check prove to be unsatisfactory for the purpose of the course you have applied to, your offer of a place for that course may be withdrawn.
If you have already enrolled on a course and your DBS check subsequently discloses a criminal conviction, you may be required to withdraw from the course even if you have already started.
If you are aware that your DBS check will disclose a previous conviction, please contact the course leader for advice as not all convictions may preclude you from continuing with the course.
As part of your course there may be additional costs to consider that are not included in your tuition fees.
Most of these will be optional, but some courses have essential additional costs.
Find out more about additional costs .
We offer many scholarships, bursaries and funds to support you during your studies.
Select your country or region to see if you are eligible and how to apply.
The University of Central Lancashire, East Lancashire Hospitals NHS Trust and North Cumbria Integrated Care NHS Foundation Trust are offering MBBS scholarships for UK students from the North West of England, particularly from backgrounds that are under-represented at university.
Our Care Leaver Bursary is for students who need extra support because they have been in care or are estranged from their parents.
Estranged Student Support Bursary is for students who need extra support because they are estranged from their parents.
Students with financially dependent children may be eligible for our Dependants Bursary as part of our financial support package.
If you're an international student and you're successful in receiving an offer (conditional or unconditional) to study the MBBS programme at UCLan, a deposit of £15,000 will be required.
Refunds are only possible in a limited number of circumstances, as detailed in our tuition fee policy .
Deposits will not be refunded if you meets the conditions of the offer, or hold an unconditional offer, and choose not to take up your place on the course.
No extensions will be offered to the above payment period.
The interview stage will take place between January and June.
This usually consists of a multi-station mini interviews (Multiple Mini Interviews or MMIs).
For interviews taking place at our Preston Campus, you will also have the opportunity to take a guided tour of the School facilities.
We will also have interview dates available in Dubai in December, with additional dates to be confirmed to take place in Botswana, Delhi, Kuala Lumpur, and Toronto.
Dates for each location are yet to be confirmed.
Please check back here for updates.
There is an emphasis on basic medical sciences, communication and clinical skills to help you develop skills in evaluating clinical and scientific evidence.
Throughout the programme, you will benefit from a range of learning strategies, such as small group tutorials, seminars, laboratory-based teaching sessions, workshops and clinical placements in primary and secondary care.
During Years 1 and 2, you will be taught by expert practitioners in our state-of-the-art clinical skills laboratories based at the Preston Campus.
In both years you will have community and General Practice placements and you will also have a secondary care placement during Year 2.
The multi-professional environment provides shared learning opportunities as professionals in training learn together.
An example of this is seen in Years 1 and 2 of the MBBS and MPAS courses where students will share many classes that are important to healthcare professionals in training.
Relocating to our other campuses from Year 3 onwards
For Years 3, 4 and 5 you will need to relocate from our Preston Campus.
Instead you will be based close to one of our other UK-based campuses in Burnley (East Lancashire) or Westlakes (Cumbria) and attend placements in the surrounding area.
Whilst we try to take your preference into consideration, your destination may be allocated by the School.
In Years 3 and 4, you will complete supervised clinical placements in one of our clinical education partners including; East Lancashire Hospitals NHS Trust and GP practices across Lancashire and Cumbria, North Cumbria Integrated Care NHS Foundation Trust, North West Boroughs Healthcare NHS Foundation Trust and others.
You will also spend one day per week either at the University’s Burnley or Westlakes Campus for additional teaching.
After Year 4, high performing students may be offered the opportunity to take an additional year and gain a master’s degree.
Additionally, many students will also produce publications and have the opportunity to present their research work at national or international conferences.
Year 5 is dedicated to providing you with the opportunity to develop your early professional practice, through a rotation of three six week apprenticeships and a Student Assistantship.
These are designed to encourage independent working with close supervision from departmental mentors and an assigned clinical supervisor.
The pattern of assessment is a combination of continuous formative assessment and regular examinations throughout the programme.
Continuous assessment provides you with regular opportunities to consolidate your learning.
You can monitor your progress with your tutor and identify, at an early stage, where there may be a need for additional help with your studies.
Continuous assessment will include:
Our clinical education partners include:
There are three themes which run throughout the five-year MBBS programme:
The University has a long history of encouraging participation in higher education by recognising those who are academically capable, but whose participation in HE has been disadvantaged or have not been encouraged to consider this option.
This is reflected in our Access Agreement.
It is also our strategy to support regional medical workforce recruitment and sustainability by training local students who are committed to studying and working in the region.
The School also aims to widen the demographic profile of the medical student body, encouraging those traditionally less likely to enter into medicine and help develop a workforce which better reflects the local population which it serves.
This degree will deliver graduates with a UK primary medical qualification who are to take on the roles and responsibilities of a medical doctor entering into foundation postgraduate training or international equivalent, as required by the GMC.
Dress code
The undertaking of clinical placements is mandatory on this MBBS programme.
For the purposes of both student and patient safety the School operates a dress code policy which is in line with the NHS dress code policy and also allows for specific hazards such as laboratory settings.
Application guide
To help you with your medicine application queries we have created an applicant guide for MBBS.
There are a range of terms used across institutions in the UK for the medical degree, including MBBS, BMBS,  MB ChB,  MB BChir etc.
These all represent a similar degree and are abbreviations of Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery or (in Latin) Medicinae Baccalaureus, Baccalaureus Chirurgiae.
We require AAA at A2 to include at least two science subjects, including Chemistry.
All A Levels must be taken in one sitting.
International students: We welcome students from all over the world, with over 40 countries typically represented in our cohort.
UK students: We had previously restricted application from UK students to the North West of the UK, but with increased UK places, we have now opened up to applications from across the UK.
For international students, there are 10 Excellence Scholarships available to provide a reduction in international fees per year.​ These are awarded to the based on MMI (Multiple Mini Interviews) scores.
For UK students we offer a number of MBBS scholarships .
This includes two Livesey Scholarships, covering all tuition for the duration of the programme.
This is open to students who have successfully completed our Scholars programme.
In addition, the Dr Kate Granger and MacKenzie Scholarships also cover all tuition fees for the duration of the programme.
These are open to successful applicants from West Cumbria and East Lancashire respectively.
Medicine is a varied course and there is no ‘typical’ week.
In the early years, you will have a busy on-campus schedule with large group lecturers, tutorials, clinical skills and anatomy workshops and small group communication skills sessions.
You will also spend some time in clinical placements across a broad range of settings including primary care, secondary care, and community placements.
In the later years, you will spend increasing amounts of time in the clinical environment, rotating through a range of specialities, with time allocated to campus teaching and self-directed learning.
In addition to this, within the School and University there are a wide range of extracurricular activities.
There is a robust and varied offering of medical societies in addition to the wider university societies.
These offer opportunities to attend talks from medical specialists, participate in workshops (for example, medial research, suturing workshops), organise and host social events, and provide peer mentoring and teaching.
It’s a fantastic way to develop personally and professionally and to build your contacts and portfolio.
There are a range of teaching styles across the different areas of the programme.
Throughout all five years there will be work-based learning on placement across a variety of clinical settings, increasing as the course progresses.
On campus you will learn in traditional lectures, workshops, tutorials, case-based learning, and simulation activities, in addition to self-directed learning.
These activities are all enhanced by the excellent modern facilities on offer at all campus sites including our Clinical Skills Suites , simulated hospital environment , and our Anatomage Suites .
As a University of Central Lancashire graduate you are eligible to apply for the UK Foundation Programme .
This two-year foundation programme provides paid training to new graduates allowing them to further develop their skills and clinical and professional competencies.
Upon completion of the Foundation Programme, doctors can then apply for specialist training in more than 60 different areas.
This course is delivered by the School of Medicine and Dentistry
For information on possible changes to course information, see our essential and important course information
You can find regulations and policies relating to student life at the University of Lancashire on our student contract page

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/veterinary-medicine-surgery-bvms:
Our Bachelor of Veterinary Medicine & Surgery (BVMS) degree has been developed to meet RCVS requirements.
The BVMS course prepares you for a variety of veterinary careers.
This is a collaborative and professional programme focused on training you to become a veterinary surgeon .
During the course, you'll gain the skills to prevent and treat animal health and welfare problems.
Veterinary medicine is a multi-disciplinary subject incorporating:
This module will provide you with a holistic understanding of how animals function and interact with the wider environment.
You will consider the relationship between humans and animals, and develop a professional ethic
This module will build on your knowledge of how animals function and interact with the wider world.
You will learn practical skills in handling animals, including clinical examination and medicine administration.
You will learn about this alongside a One Health approach towards animal-related social issues.
This module advances prior knowledge by enhancing clinical communication, honing patient history-taking, diagnostic reasoning, and clinical skills using various models.
It broadens your understanding of pathology and clinical applications, assesses evidence-based veterinary medicine, and explores the One Health perspective and biostatistics.
Additionally, it covers research methodologies and critical analysis.
Develop a deep knowledge of the application of prior modules in the clinical context.
This includes a range of pathological presentations and associated diseases across domestic and exotic species.
Develop a range of practical and clinical skills and the supporting professional practices.
Prepare for your first day as a new graduate vet.
This module brings together all your previous learning from the earlier years of the course.
You'll learn in a practical real-life clinical environment.
You'll also get exposed to on-the-job practical training & assessment across all common species.
Meet the criteria described in the RVCS Day 1 Competencies following completion of the module.
Expand your understanding and skills in specific clinical and non-clinical areas through the elective study.
You must submit your application through UCAS by the October deadline.
All applications are subject to review in line with RCVS fitness to practice requirements.
Science subjects must be from different groups from the selection below.
For example:
You could not have Biology, Physical Education and Physics, as two of these subjects sit in the same group.
Group 1
Group 2
Group 3
Group 4
Group 5
Group 6
BTEC Level 3 National Extended Diploma: D*D*D*
Animal Management with at least a distinction in the following units:
Applied Science with at least four from the following optional units:
BTEC Subsidiary Diploma: D*
We accept the BTEC Subsidiary Diploma (grade D*) if it’s taken instead of a third A Level.
You’ll still need two A Levels at grade A, including two sciences.
We accept the Welsh Baccalaureate Advanced Skills Challenge Certificate if it’s taken instead of a third A Level.
You’ll still need two A Levels at grade A, including Biology or Chemistry and one other science.
If English is not your first language, you'll need an English language qualification .
We accept:
IELTS 7
The following course related costs are included in your course fees:
The following course related costs are not included in your course fees:
Please note - All prices are inclusive of VAT.
Prices above are correct at the time of publishing - any costs listed may be subject to change at the request of the supplier.
*For the 2025 cohort of BVMS students, we are proud to have teamed up with CPD Solutions who have sponsored the student scrub tops, so these will be free of charge to all students starting with us in 2025.
All offers of a place on this course are subject to satisfactory health screening.
It is important to note that should your health screening not be satisfactory your offer of a place on this course may be withdrawn.
If your health screening clearance is revoked or changes during the course, you may be required to withdraw from the course even if you have already started.
If you would like to discuss or seek advice in respect of the health screening requirements for this course, please contact the course enquiries team.
As a future veterinary professional, it’s not just your knowledge and skills that matter, it’s also the way you conduct yourself.
Fitness to Practise is a requirement set by the Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons (RCVS).
It means demonstrating the right character, competence and professional behaviour to earn the trust of the public, your peers, and the wider profession.
Fitness to Practise goes beyond your academic achievements.
It’s about behaving responsibly, acting with integrity, and always putting animal health and welfare first.
If concerns about a student’s Fitness to Practise are raised, they’re handled through clear procedures designed to protect animal welfare, safeguard the public, and maintain confidence in the veterinary profession.
This ensures that everyone who qualifies as a veterinary professional is safe, responsible, and ready for the demands of practice.
You will be sent a Fitness to Practise questionnaire before you start your first year.
During your time at The University of Lancashire, you’ll be developing not only your clinical knowledge and practical skills, but also the professionalism and judgement expected of a veterinary surgeon.
Fitness to Practise is there to support you on this journey and ensures you graduate as a well-rounded professional who the public, and your future patients, can trust.
At The University of Lancashire, we are committed to supporting students with disabilities and health conditions.
We encourage you to share any information about your condition with us as early as possible.
This allows us to work with you to put the right support in place and to explore how we can help you succeed on the course.
We do not want your condition to be a barrier to applying for Veterinary Medicine.
Veterinary Medicine is a highly practical subject, and students must be able to handle and examine animals safely and humanely, while also protecting their own safety and that of others.
To help you understand what this involves, we recommend reading the guidance provided by The Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons (RCVS).
By sharing your needs with us early, we can have open conversations about the support available to you and ensure you have the best possible experience throughout your degree.
If you’d like to discuss your circumstances confidentially before applying, please contact our admissions team.
We offer a reduced entry tariff for those whose life experiences may have resulted in academic challenges.
We've put together a specialist package of Veterinary Medicine student support.
Launching the new School of Veterinary Medicine
You’ll have access to a wide range of animal handling, husbandry and clinical facilities.
We work in partnership with Myerscough College & University Centre as well as local and regional organisations.
We're one of the first UK universities to use Anatomage tables in our veterinary medicine teaching.
Want to know how to become a veterinary surgeon in the UK?
This page will answer all your frequently asked questions (FAQs).
This includes information about training, placements and what support is available.
When studying the BVMS Veterinary Medicine Surgery course you can apply for £407 per week on an Vets4Pets EMS placement.
The Medivet Veterinary Student Success Scholarship is awarded annually to one student entering our Bachelor of Veterinary Medicine and Surgery (BVMS) course.
The BVMS Veterinary Medicine and Surgery Scholarship offered by the BVA is available to eligible students to assist with a visit to a veterinary or agricultural school, research institute, or other course of study or project.
The Medivet Hardship Fund is available to BVMS students to support essential one-off purchases or expenses incurred as part of their study.
Graduates of the BVMS course will be able to work as UK registered veterinary surgeons.
Subject to successful licensing by the RCVS.
A veterinary degree accredited by the Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons allows practice in Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, and Ireland.
It is possible to practice in countries not listed, but additional criteria may need to be met.
The veterinary medicine and surgery degree will also prepare you for a range of science and research careers.
As well as the opportunity for further academic study.
This is a field with excellent career prospects.
Over 99% of veterinary graduates enter employment or further academic study according to higher education graduate outcomes statistics (HESA).
Our competency-based programmes aim to ease your transition into the working world.
We'll ensure you're ready with the skills and knowledge to succeed in a range of veterinary clinical and science-based careers.
The Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons (RCVS) quality assures veterinary degrees at UK vet schools by means of specific accreditation standards.
Graduates from accredited schools join the RCVS Register as members.
Allowing them to practise veterinary surgery in the UK.
The University of Central Lancashire and the RCVS are working together to ensure that the new degree meets these standards.
And that graduates will be eligible for registration.
Under the Veterinary Surgeons Act 1966, veterinary degrees must have a “recognition order” from the Privy Council before graduates can automatically be eligible for registration with the RCVS.
The Privy Council will take advice from the RCVS on this.
The process takes a number of years.
Full approval cannot be considered until the RCVS undertakes a formal inspection of the full course and its standards in 2028.
This is when the first cohort of students will have completed their degrees.
Until that time, the School is liaising regularly with the RCVS to ensure that progress towards accreditation is maintained.
Should any unforeseen issues arise, the Veterinary Surgeons Act includes a provision to help ensure that those completing their final exams in an as-yet-unapproved degree may still be allowed to register.
In that, the Privy Council may invite the RCVS to set examinations for any students attending a non-approved UK veterinary degree course.
Or alternatively, appoint RCVS External Examiners to oversee the standard of the final year examinations.
Students who pass the RCVS-controlled examinations would then be able to register with the RCVS and practise as veterinary surgeons in the UK.
Regardless of the outcome of the degree’s accreditation process.
This is in line with the arrangements for any new veterinary degree programmes.
This course is delivered by the School of Veterinary Medicine

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/undergraduate/how-to-apply/mbbs:
Thinking about applying to study medicine at the University of Central Lancashire?
This page covers everything you need to know when applying for our Medicine & Surgery (MBBS) programme , including:
Think clearly about why you want to become a doctor and write a list of your reasons.
It would be good to get these across in your application.
Where do you want to study?
Whichever university you apply to, make sure you visit it, talk to the students and have a good look around the campus and city.
Five years is a long time.
Try to get some experience in a care environment.
This might be work shadowing in a hospital, hospice or GP surgery but could also be time assisting in a care home or other care organisation.
It’s good to see what being a healthcare professional is really about.
If you’ve tried applying for work experience and just cannot get any, then don’t worry.
Think about doing some voluntary work or some community related work.
If you have any questions before or during your application, feel free to contact MBBS Admissions via email .
UK applications are made via UCAS .
UK medical school applications need to be submitted by October the year before entry .
International applications can be made via UCAS or direct via our application portal .
We accept direct applications throughout the year.
However, you should apply as early as possible so that we can process your application in good time.
Step 1: Initial application assessment
Your application will be assessed against both academic and non-academic set criteria.
For UK students, your University Clinical Aptitude Test (UCAT) will be taken into consideration too.
You can find out more about admissions tests on the UCAS website .
Step 2: Interview selection
Your personal statement and academic reference will be evaluated and scored to determine if you will be offered an interview.
Step 3: Multiple Mini Interview (MMI) and School facilities tour
The interview stage takes place between December and April each year.
This usually consists of a multi-station MMI.
For those interviews taking place at our Preston Campus you will also have the opportunity to take a guided tour of the School facilities.
For more information see the interview section in this guide.
Step 4: Offers and feedback to applicants
Offers are made based on performance at interview.
If you're successful at interview, you'll need to do an occupational health screening as part of the enrolment process.
A satisfactory enhanced DBS check, in country police check and a satisfactory health check will be required at enrolment.
The University reserves the right to check any application form submitted against the Excluded Student Database.
We also reserve the right to add students details to the database if deemed necessary.
Places for UK students If you're a UK student, we have a limited number of MBBS places available.
If you take one of these places, you'll need to pay undergraduate tuition fees as normal.
Your UCAT performance will be considered as part of your application.
Four places for MBBS scholarships We have four places available for those who receive the Mackenzie, Dr Kate Granger or Livesey Scholarships.
We will assess your application against both academic and non-academic set criteria.
Please make sure your application form is as comprehensive as possible.
You'll need to write a personal reflective statement as part of your application.
The personal statement is a key element of the admissions process.
Our Admissions Team have put together some guidance on how to write this in line with our set criteria.
You can find this in the personal statement section of this page.
You'll also need to make sure you include all the supporting information for your application.
Please see below for further details.
UK applicants
If you are a UK applicant, you need to provide the following:
If you need any further help or guidance, please contact our Admissions Team on +44 (0)1772 892444 .
International applicants
If you are an international applicant, you will also need to provide the following:
If applying via UCAS, you will need to send these via email to our Admissions Team .
Please quote either your UCAS or UCLan ID.
If you're invited to interview, you'll need to complete a transferable skills statement.
For UK students only
You'll need to take the University Clinical Aptitude Test (UCAT).
The test assesses your ability and aptitude in a range of areas.
This includes verbal, quantitative and abstract reasoning.
It also tests your decision making and situational judgement.
You can find out more information on the UCAT website , including a free practice test.
Please makes sure you look at the testing dates available so you can complete the test in good time.
You UCAT score will help us decide who is offered an interview.
The threshold score will be set based on the scores of those applying in each cycle and will not be known beforehand.
The UCAT result is only valid for one year
All applications are first read by our Admissions Team to ensure that you meet the minimum academic requirements.
If you meet the academic requirements, your application will be given an academic score and passed to our selection panel.
If you do not meet these, your application will be rejected at this initial stage.
For UK applicants, your UCAT results will be utilised as part of the interview selection process.
You should make sure that your referee sees the criteria by which your reference will be scored.
Please see the reference section on this page.
Both you and your referee should address each aspect outlined in the guidance.
Referees should be aware that we expect to see more than a record of academic achievement.
Strong references that highlight your strengths in the specified areas are more valuable than basic "school report" style references.
If you're invited for interview, you'll take part in our Multiple Mini Interviews (MMI).
You will not be made an offer without an interview.
The interviews are usually held at our Preston Campus between December and April.
For international students, we may interview in other locations across the world.
Once all the interviews are complete, applicants who succeed in the MMI stations will be ranked by their scores.
Offers will be given to the highest-ranking applicants until we fill all the available spots.
A small number of applicants who perform exceptionally well at interview may be made an early offer.
If you're successful at interview, you must go through health screening during the enrolment process.
This includes checks for tuberculosis, hepatitis B and C, and HIV.
Failing the health screening won't stop you from studying the MBBS, but it may affect how you study and your ability to practise as a doctor.
Further details are available on the General Medical Council’s website .
You should look at your personal statement in the same way as a job application.
You should use it to provide evidence that you have the qualities required by a trainee doctor.
We want to know what you have done and the qualities you have demonstrated.
Observation does not mean experience.
Focus on what you have done, what you have gained from this or how you've reflected on it.
We don't want a detailed account of what you observed.
Your personal statement is split into three questions.
Here's how to answer each question:
Tell us why you want to study medicine.
MBBS is a challenging course, so we need to make sure you have the motivation to complete it.
You should also show that you understand the role of a doctor.
This includes the responsibilities they have and the qualities they demonstrate.
You might use examples from shadowing a doctor or being a patient.
Remember to link this back to why you want to be a doctor.
This question focuses on your academic ability to study MBBS.
Admissions will already see your grades, so focus on the skills you have gained.
You should also share any topics that you have enjoyed and want to study more.
You should tell us if you have faced any exceptional circumstances or had to overcome difficulties.
It is helpful if these statements are backed up by your referee.
This is one of the most important sections of your personal statement.
It's your chance to demonstrate the characteristics, values and skills needed to be a doctor.
There are several key areas you should focus on.
You must write about your practical experience in a caring role.
This could be in a community or clinical setting.
Don't just write what you did.
Provide examples that show the characteristics, values and skills required by a doctor.
Be specific, including what you did and for how long.
You should also share what you have learned from the experience.
"During the last six months I spent one morning a week in a care home, where I took responsibility for feeding three elderly residents.
I learned that it takes a long time and requires patience.
One of the residents would not co-operate without a lot of coaxing and another had difficulty swallowing following a stroke.
I learned to feed very slowly.
I can now share experiences with the families and other carers to improve the feeding experience of the residents."
We also want to see your teamwork and communication skills.
These are essential to a career in medicine.
Show how you have contributed to a team, either as a leader or as a member.
You must provide a credible account of your contribution to the team.
For example, you'll not gain credit for stating that you passed a Duke of Edinburgh award.
But you are likely to gain credit if you can give an example of how you worked as part of a team during a Duke of Edinburgh task.
You must also provide an example which exhibits good communication skills.
This doesn't have to be public speaking.
However, it should be from contact with people beyond your usual peer group.
A good example might be communicating with a customer at work.
You'll receive the most credit if you can give a specific example of the feedback or the conclusion of the communication scenario you've discussed.
You should also demonstrate initiative and enterprise.
Show how your ideas and actions made a positive impact.
Write clearly about your own contribution.
This could include setting up clubs or societies, fundraising or community activities.
You could also discuss awards, prizes or other achievements.
This should take a lot of time and effort, like a music exam or Duke of Edinburgh award.
A career in medicine can be rewarding, but it can also be challenging at times.
Doctors have to cope with uncertainty and rapidly respond to change.
You should demonstrate a healthy work-life balance in your personal statement.
This will show us that you are able to cope with demands effectively.
Taking part in activities like community groups, sports clubs or bands is valuable.
However, it's important to show how you also relax and enjoy your free time, instead of just listing your achievements.
Remember, we also assess applications based on the quality of writing.
Avoid careless mistakes in spelling, grammar and punctuation, as they can impact your score.
Be thoughtful about how you present your personal statement.
Avoid unnecessary abbreviations or technical details that don't add value.
In your reference, we want to know what your referee thinks about you as a whole person.
We don't just want to know about your academic achievements and potential.
Your reference is likely to be written by your head teacher, college principal, head of year or form tutor.
If you're not currently in school or college, you should approach an academic supervisor whenever possible.
A ‘character reference’ is not enough.
Please ensure that whoever is writing the reference sees a copy of these guidelines.
The areas in which we require information from your referee are listed below:
Your commitment to medicine can be demonstrated in many ways.
The length of time that you have been committed to a career in medicine is an aspect of this.
But it's important that your reference explains any roles you have taken on that confirm your commitment to medicine.
This could be work or volunteering experience in a caring role.
It would be helpful to show your awareness of the realities, advantages and disadvantages of a medical career.
If you have work or volunteering experience in other fields that convinced you they're not the right fit, your referee can mention that here.
Your reference should provide an understanding of your interest and enthusiasm for a career in medicine.
You should not be discourage if your interest in a career in medicine has begun later in life.
A reference can assist applicants whose interest and dedication to medicine developed later.
This could be relatively late in your school career, or as a graduate or other later applicant.
Effective communication is essential to the practice of medicine.
Good communication begins with listening.
We want to know more about how you get along with others, especially students who may struggle more or are younger than you.
We're also interested in how you handle feedback.
This information is just as important as your class participation and extracurricular activities.
Your referee should talk about your ability to be empathetic and about your suitability to work in a caring profession.
They should also discuss how you see yourself in your school and community, or for later applicants, in your workplace or higher education.
We'd like your referee to share examples of when your readiness to take on responsibilities and how well you handle them.
Your intellectual potential is not just shown by your actual or predicted grades.
It is important for your referee to tell us about late academic developers.
For example the student who achieved a less than perfect score but is likely to blossom during upcoming examinations.
We also welcome other evidence of intellectual potential beyond the ability to pass exams.
You can show good teamwork skills in various situations, not just in sports.
Your referee should talk about your involvement in social activities or charity work.
They may wish to discuss your membership in groups like choirs or orchestras.
Your ability to work well in teams during field trips, expeditions, or treks is also important.
They should mention examples where you showed leadership.
However, remember that part of successful teamwork is recognising that not everyone has to be the leader.
Mitigating circumstances refer to situations or events that give an explanation for someone's performance.
Typically, these situations are beyond their control.
They have most likely affected their abilities or decision-making skills.
Your referee should tell us about any mitigating circumstances that might have influenced you.
This is not just your grades but any part of your application.
If you had tough times during your exams, your school or college should inform the exam boards right away.
This is so they can make appropriate allowances.
If any mitigating circumstances are mentioned in your reference, we will assess these.
If we think they should be formally considered, we'll contact your referee for more information.
This usually consists of a multi-station Multiple Mini Interview (MMI).
A Multiple Mini Interview (MMI) is an interview technique used by many medical and health related schools.
You'll go through short independent assessments in different stations.
There are usually between six to ten.
Our School values the positive impacts of disabilities and diversity on our MBBS programme.
We welcome and encourage applications from all students.
We offer guidance on diversity and disability , which you should look at before filling out your application.
You must list all completed and certified qualifications in your application.
This includes ones you have failed.
If you have uncertificated A Levels, mention this in your personal statement or reference.
Deliberately hiding qualifications will result in your application being cancelled.
We'll also notify UCAS about it.
We might need to request more information if there are gaps in your education and/or employment record.
You will get a deadline for responding to such a request.
Failure to reply by the deadline will result in the rejection of your application.
We can only assess your application on the information you provide in your direct or UCAS application.
This will be used to select candidates for interview.
Offers of places will be made solely on the basis of performance at interview.
We reserve the right to reject applications that are incomplete.
Any application submitted without a completed reference will be automatically rejected.
If you fail to achieve a place on the MBBS programme you may only make one further consecutive application to the programme.
If you have any questions or worries, feel free to get in touch with us.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/undergraduate/how-to-apply/bvms:
We recognise and value the importance and positive impacts of diversity within our Veterinary Medicine & Surgery (BVMS) programme , the wider university, and beyond.
Our BVMS programme welcomes applications from all students.
Students who come from different backgrounds and life experiences have a range of perspectives.
This enhances the educational experience for everyone.
We know that not all prospective students will come from a typical school-leaver background.
We have created this guidance to support your application.
This is regardless of whether you are applying from school, college or from the workplace.
We also provide guidance on diversity and disability.
You should refer to this before completing their application.
This page covers everything you need to know when applying for our BVMS programme, including:
Think clearly about why you want to study veterinary medicine and write a list of your reasons – it would be good to get these across in your application.
Whichever university you apply to, make sure you visit, talk to the students and have a good look around the campus and city.
We’d encourage you, where possible, to engage in voluntary or paid vocational experience.
This helps to develop personal and professional attributes.
It will also expose you to what it means to work with animals and people in different settings.
This might include working with animals in some capacity, such as at a veterinary practice, farm, animal shelter or stables.
It may also include roles that show your abilities in:
This could be in a retail or hospitality setting.
If you’re unable to access veterinary work experience then don’t worry.
You can focus on other voluntary or paid work experiences, hobbies and activities.
Make sure they show skills which could be applied in the veterinary context.
Or you could study a relevant free open-access online course via platforms such as Coursera or FutureLearn.
Whilst we encourage vocational experience, we also recognise that it is not possible for everyone.
A lack of vocational experience will not be a barrier to your application to veterinary medicine at UCLan.
If you have any questions before or during your application, feel free to contact the Course Enquiries Team by email .
UK applications are submitted via UCAS
UK veterinary school applications are expected to be submitted by October the year before entry .
International applications can be submitted via UCAS or directly via our online application form
We accept direct international applications throughout the year.
However, you should apply early so that we can process your application in good time.
Once your application has been submitted you will be contacted by the School to complete a short questionnaire so we can learn a little bit more about you prior to the interview.
Your personal statement and academic reference will be evaluated and scored.
This will determine if you will get an interview.
The interview stage normally takes place between December and April each year.
This usually consists of an multi-station MMI.
For interviews taking place at our Preston Campus you'll also have the opportunity to take a guided tour of our facilities.
Offers are based on performance at interview.
If you are successful at interview, you'll have to have occupational health screening as part of the enrolment process.
This ensures we can meet the Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons (RCVS) fitness to practise guidance.
Please be reassured that we are committed to making veterinary education accessible.
The first step is the assessment of your initial application against both academic and non-academic set criteria.
If you are a home student your application must be submitted via UCAS.
A personal reflective statement is required as part of your application.
We have provided guidance on how to write this in line with our set criteria.
Please see the personal statement section of this webpage.
If you are not submitting via UCAS, you should also ensure that you include all supporting information for your application.
If you are applying as an international applicant you'll need to send these via email to the International Admissions Team .
Follow receipt of your application you will receive an online questionnaire to complete.
This will include:
This will be assessed alongside your personal statement and reference and will form the basis of the criteria we use to select candidates for the interview/MMI process.
If you meet these, your application will get an academic score and passed to our selection panel.
If you do not meet these your application will be rejected at this initial stage.
You may wish to consider applying for our Foundation Year programme .
The selection panel will look at your personal statement and the reference from your school/college.
Please do not send in extra information or portfolios of work unless we contact you to request it.
In the interests of fairness to all candidates, we will only assess what is included in your direct or UCAS application form.
If you produce a strong personal statement, using the guidance on this page, you are more likely to get an interview.
If you have a very low evaluation for any aspect of your application, you are unlikely to get an interview.
Your reference will be scored by specific criteria outlined on this page.
You should ensure that the person who will complete your reference is able to see this.
Please see the reference section lower down on this page.
Your references should show your strengths in the areas listed in the guidance.
This is much more valuable than simple “school report” style references.
If you get invited for interview you'll need to take part in Multiple Mini Interviews (MMI).
You will not get an offer without an interview.
These are normally held at our Preston Campus between December and April.
Once all interviews are completed you are ranked according to performance.
Your individual station and overall scores will be assessed.
You will then be ranked according to score.
Offers are made to the top-ranking applicants until the required number of places has been filled.
If you're successful at interview you'll need to undergo occupational health screening.
This is part of the enrolment process.
The screening process ensures we understand your needs so we can support you throughout the course.
This is inclusive of a wide range of disabilities.
Please be reassured that alongside our duties under the Equality Act 2010, we are committed to making veterinary education accessible.
We will do our best to make reasonable adjustments and provide necessary support to address any fitness to practise issue.
You should approach your personal statement in the same way as a job application.
You should use it to provide evidence that you have the qualities required to be a trainee veterinary surgeon.
Instead of telling us what you think you're good at, provide examples of things you've done that show what you're good at.
Also, tell us what you’ve learned from your experiences and achievements.
We assess applications on the principle that observation does not constitute experience.
You should highlight the qualities and attributes you can bring to veterinary medicine.
Use specific examples from your vocational or veterinary experience.
Avoid giving us a great deal of detail about how much time you spent shadowing veterinary surgeons, for example.
We want to know what you have done and what qualities you will bring to the programme.
Your personal statement should explain what you have learned from your life or vocational experiences.
It should show how you reflect upon your life or vocational experience.
You shouldn't focus on the details of what you saw during any vocational experience, activities or voluntary work.
Your personal statement should contain specific details.
This will enable us to determine whether it was a relevant or useful experience.
A personal statement has a limited word count.
It's advisable not to include anything in your personal statement that does not address these points.
You should only include this if it's required by another university to which you are applying.
Your personal statement should cover the following:
Tell us why you want to study veterinary medicine, especially if this is a new direction for you.
You need to provide a well-described understanding of the role of a veterinary surgeon.
This is an important part of your personal statement.
You should explain what you understand the role of a veterinary surgeon to be.
You need to show how you came to this understanding, and why you wish to train for a career in veterinary medicine.
Provide examples and experiences that influenced your understanding of the role.
Examples could include but are not limited to:
You need to show you understand the essential qualities, skills, and values required for success as a trainee and future veterinary surgeon.
You also need to highlight the specific skills you have that make you a valuable candidate.
This is both for the course and the veterinary profession.
Practical experience, whether through work and/or volunteering, is extremely valuable.
Vet-related experience can provide insight into what a career in veterinary medicine can look like.
But, as the profession is so diverse, we do not expect students to be able to gain insight into the full range of veterinary careers.
Non-veterinary related experience is also valuable.
Students can gain a range of skills that are transferable to veterinary medicine.Examples of vocational experiences include, but are not limited to:
Remember that vets often communicate with animal carers.
This can include farmers and animal guardians, as well as a range of other stakeholders.
They also often engage in public education and outreach activities.
Being a successful vet requires solid communication and people skills as well as compassion for animals.You must share real-life examples to show you have the characteristics, skills, and values expected of a vet.
This should be real-life examples from your personal or vocational experiences.
Claiming to have these attributes without providing evidence will not be enough.In your personal statement it is important that you tell us:
An example from voluntary animal-related experience:
"During the last six months I spent every Saturday volunteering at my local stables to gain experience working with animals.
I fed and cleaned out the horses and also observed others grooming and riding them.
I learnt how to handle the horses, got to know their individual characters and gained confidence being around them.
I felt like a valued member of the team and engaged with the owners to find out more about their animals and how to care for them.
I developed my time management skills by completing my tasks on time.
I had the opportunity to communicate with a variety of different people.”
You may not have had the opportunity or been able to pursue direct animal-related experience.
If this is the case, please draw on life or vocational experiences.
This could be showing the benefits of your actions in a scenario that could be applicable to veterinary medicine.
You should describe how you responded and attempted to resolve the problem.
Your personal statement should provide evidence of your ability to interact with the wider world.
It should show problem-solving and attempts to make your own choices and decisions.
This may include examples of leadership, responsibility, enterprise or ingenuity.
You should be aware that we may request confirmation from the host organisation of any vocational experience detailed in your application.
A career in veterinary medicine can be enormously rewarding, and opens the door to a diversity of opportunities.
Veterinary careers, like veterinary training, can also be challenging at times.
Being able to develop healthy self-awareness and self-care is important.
And, being able to show healthy self-care habits and/or healthy work-life balance is key for your success on the course.
As well as longevity in the veterinary profession.
You should provide examples of your approach to balancing your school or work life and your personal life in your personal statement.
This provides insight into your current self care strategies.
We need to understand the range of activities you take part in and how you enjoy spending your time outside of work or study.
Extracurricular activities within community organisations are all equally valuable.
This could include churches, sports clubs, bands, and more.
But there should be some demonstration of how you relax and find time to do things you enjoy, rather than a long list of worthy causes and achievements.
We are aware that different kinds of opportunities are open to different individuals and will look at all kinds of activities.
The BVMS programme is long and includes many placement and academic activities.
We’re interested in understanding how you have tackled obstacles or challenges that you have experienced.
We would like to learn how you have dealt with adversity, and what strategies you use to safeguard your own wellbeing.
Also, we want to know how you learn and grow from challenges you have experienced.
A career in veterinary medicine involves teamwork.
You must show in your personal statement that you understand the role of a veterinary surgeon within a team.
You also need to show how you would contribute to effective team-working.
You'll find examples of team working in many different experiences, both in and out of the academic environment.In your personal statement you must show how you have contributed to a team, either as a leader or as a member.
It's important that your personal statement provides a credible account of the outcome of your contribution to the team.
For example, applicants will not gain credit for stating that they passed a Duke of Edinburgh award.
But they are likely to gain credit if they can give an example of how they worked as part of a team during a Duke of Edinburgh event.
We recognise that schemes like Duke of Edinburgh are not available to all applicants.
Please use your own experiences to show your teamwork abilities.
Effective communication is an essential skill for a career in veterinary medicine.
You need to explain any experience you have in communicating with different people.
You should provide an example of a task where you have been able to exhibit good communication skills to a range of different people.
Examples in this regard would preferably be from contact with people beyond your usual peer group.
You'll get the most credit if you can provide an example of effective communication from received feedback.
You could also talk about the conclusion of the communication scenario described in your personal statement.
Applications are assessed for the quality of the writing.
Careless errors of spelling, grammar and punctuation will affect your overall score.
Please consider carefully how you have presented your personal statement.
Avoid including unnecessary abbreviations or technical details.
For example, listing the names of the operations you observed in a veterinary surgeon practice shadowing period.
Please make sure you tell us if you have made any exceptional achievements or had to overcome exceptional difficulties.
We have a contextual admissions policy at UCLan.
This takes into account of extra information about your background that might have affected your education.
It could potentially adjust the entry criteria for you.
Read more and check your eligibility.
In your reference we want to know what the writer of the reference thinks about you as a whole person.
We want to know more than your academic achievements and potential.
The areas in which we need information from your referee are below:
Your referee needs to give us an understanding of your interest and enthusiasm for a career in veterinary medicine.
Don't be discouraged if your interest in a career in veterinary medicine has begun later in life.
A referee can support you if your commitment to veterinary medicine has flourished late in your school career.
You might be a graduate or have some work experience.
Your referee can show us this in many ways.
The length of time you've spent wanting to work in veterinary medicine is one aspect.
It's also important for your referee to talk about any jobs you've done that show you're dedicated to this field.
For example, if you've worked with people or animals in a job, that would be good for them to mention.
It would help if your referee can show that you know what it's really like to work as a vet.
This means knowing the good and not-so-good parts.
If you've worked or volunteered in different jobs and realised they're not the right fit for you, that's something the referee can mention here.
Being a successful vet is not just about getting top grades or high marks in classes.
It's about having certain personal and professional skills.
These skills include being creative, motivated, and caring about your community and helping others.
Your referee should give examples of how you've taken the lead or helped with things that go beyond just doing well in your classes.
Some examples of contributions in this category could be:
We're also interested in knowing how you've shown that you can take the lead or come up with new ideas in your community, at work, or even within your family.
This means doing things that go beyond what people might have expected from you.
We recognise applicants who can show that they're dedicated to something they're interested in.
Even if it's not related to academic studies.
It could be anything you care about and put effort into.
Effective communication is essential to the practice of veterinary medicine.
We're interested in how you take part in class discussions and activities outside of class.
But what we'd really like to know from your reference is how you connect with and understand people, especially those who are different from you.
We're also curious about how you handle feedback and use it to improve.
We want your referee to tell us how well you handle difficult situations and if you're a good fit for a job that can be tough and unpredictable.
To be a vet you need to understand and care about people with diverse viewpoints and backgrounds.
It's also important for your referee to share how you see yourself in your school and the community.
If you've been out of study for a while, we also need to know how you fit into work or higher education settings.
We'd like your referee to provide examples of your readiness to take on responsibility.
We also want to know about your ability to deal with uncertainty, failure, and conflict.
Intellectual potential is not just proven by your actual or predicted grades.
We want your referee to tell us if you're a late academic developer.
For example, if you achieved a less than perfect score in the past but you're likely to do well in upcoming exams.
If you've experience hardship that might have affected your academic performance, we want to know.
Your referee can look at the mitigating circumstances section for more information on this.
We also want to hear about other examples of intellectual potential beyond the ability to pass exams.
This could including problem-solving, critical thinking, reflectivity and personal growth.
Team-working skills and effective leadership are important and you can show these in many different ways.
This might be taking part in sport or playing music, but there are other ways you can develop these skills.
For example, you could take part in social or charity volunteering, or be involved in the community.
You could have work-related team experiences or even large family activities.
We are particularly interested in example of your leadership skills.
However, a large part of being a good team player is recognising not everyone can be the leader.
Mitigating circumstances are situations or events that give a good reason for how well someone performed.
These things are usually not their fault and can impact how well they can do things or the choices they make.
As well as everything in the above sections, your referee should talk about any mitigating circumstances you may have.
This could relate to your academic performance or any other aspect of your application.
If you experience extenuating circumstances at the time of your exams, this should be reported immediately.
Then the relevant examination boards can make appropriate allowances.
We will consider if any issues brought up in the reference should be taken into account during the assessment of your application.
If so, we will write to your referee to request further details.
We will assess your application, including your personal statement and academic reference.
If you're successful, you'll be invited for an interview.
This will be a Multiple Mini Interview (MMI) and is usually between December and April.
Our MMI consists of eight stations.
The selection process aims to make sure veterinary education is accessible for everyone.
You must take part in the MMI to be considered for a place on the course.
After all the interviews have finished, you'll be ranked according to your scores.
Offers will be made to the candidates with the best score.
This will be until all available spots get filled.
A few outstanding candidates might receive early offers.
You'll also need to pass an occupational health screening to meet veterinary practice standards.
Remember, when you apply, tell us about all the courses you've finished, even if you didn't pass them.
If you have A Levels that you haven't gotten certificates for, mention them in your personal statement or reference.
If you hide your qualifications on purpose, we'll cancel your application and let UCAS know.
We may need more details if there are gaps in your education or work history.
We'll give you a deadline to give us that information.
If you don't respond by then, your application will be rejected.
We'll only use the information you give in your application to decide if you should be interviewed.
If you're chosen for an interview, getting a place on our BVMS will depend on how well you perform at the interview.
If you don't meet the BVMS requirements, you could think about our BVMS with Foundation Year .
It's for people with different qualifications or skills who want to enter veterinary work.
That's why we give special attention to applications from those with a non-traditional education.
If you're thinking of changing careers and want to study veterinary medicine, make sure you understand why and make a list of your reasons.
Try to include these reasons in your application.
If you can't get veterinary work experience, it's crucial to know both the good and challenging parts of the profession you want to join.
This helps you make a smart choice before applying for the course.
Our BVMS with Foundation Year course doesn't have an interview, so admission is based only on your application.
Use this chance to showcase your strengths and explain why we should pick you.
Remember to submit your application before the January UCAS deadline .
Your application will be assessed against both academic and non-academic criteria.
We’ll focus on your academic background and transferable skills.
We'll also look at your vocational or practical experience.
Step 2: Application selection process
We’ll score and evaluate your personal statement and academic reference on several factors to determine if we can offer you a place.
Step 3: Offers and feedback to applicants
If you’re successful in getting an offer on the course, we’ll get in touch to let you know your next steps.
If we couldn’t make an offer to you, we can provide some feedback on why you were unsuccessful.
Would you like to become a vet but don't have a science background?
Open up the possibility of an exciting veterinary career with our gateway to Veterinary Medicine.
Delivered over just two years, our BSc (Hons) Bioveterinary Sciences accelerated programme provides a unique opportunity for you to gain a scientific degree, enhanced with clinical and research applications.
Our Foundation programme in Bioveterinary Sciences is a ‘gateway’ course, giving you the opportunity to progress to our BSc (Hons) programmes and opening up the possibility of an exciting veterinary-related career.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/study/university-terminology-guide:
Confused by university terminology?
Don't worry, you are not alone.
Sometimes we use university-specific language, which we know can be confusing if you’re not used to the terms.
Our handy guide is here to explain everything from UCAS applications to accepting your offer in a no nonsense way.
Admissions is the process which you will go through in order to become a student at university.
We have an Admissions team who deal with thousands of applications every year.
They are experts in assessing your qualifications, personal statement and references to check your suitability for a course.
This is the abbreviation for Bachelor of Art.
This is a type of degree traditionally awarded to subjects based in the field of Art, Social Sciences and English etc.
A degree awarded by a college or university to a person who has completed undergraduate studies.
This is the abbreviation for Bachelor of Engineering.
This type of degree is awarded to subjects in the field of Engineering.
This is the abbreviation for Bachelor of Science.
This type of degree is traditionally awarded to subjects based in the field of Science and Social Science.
The BSc degree is not limited to traditional sciences.
A bursary is a monetary award that is granted on the basis of financial need and does not have to be repaid.
A university situated on one dedicated site, with student accommodation, teaching and research facilities, and leisure activities all together.
An alternative offer may be made if you haven’t met the conditions of the offers you accepted.
A type of degree where you study two subjects.
This is an offer of a place on a course, but to be accepted on the course you will need to meet the conditions – usually related to your exam results.
This is the common type of offer made to students applying directly from school or college.
Once you have met the conditions of your offer, we will automatically confirm your place on your chosen course, normally through UCAS.
A degree apprenticeship is for people who would like to work whilst they study for a university degree.
You will spend the majority of your time working for an employer and some of the time studying.
Degree apprenticeships are usually fully funded by the employer and the government.
Find out more.
A student can apply for a university place but request that they start it the following year, thus deferring entry.
Students who wish to take a GAP year do this to ensure they have a place at university for when they complete their year out.
A dissertation is an extended piece of writing on a chosen topic related to your area of study, usually undertaken at the end of your degree.
This can be part of an undergraduate or postgraduate degree.
For new students, ‘enrolment’ is the formal process of confirming your course details, accepting our rules and regulations and agreeing to pay tuition fees.
Enrolment is usually done online before you arrive.
Once you’ve enrolled, we’ll send you an email or a letter that says “Acknowledgement of Enrolment”, so you’ll know you’ve enrolled.
Returning students need to enrol at the start of every academic year they’re studying here.
Receiving a UCLan ID Card or network account details doesn’t mean that you’ve enrolled.
Once you receive your UCLan Network Account username and password, you can enrol online.
For more information about enrolling see here.
The university you accept as your first choice in the UCAS application.
This is your first choice course or institute.
It may be a conditional or unconditional offer.
Universities usually refer to this as CF (conditional firm) or UF (unconditional firm).
This provides a route to study honours degrees; students must undertake and pass an extra preliminary year of study.
This is the term commonly used to describe students in their first year at university.
A ‘fresher’ is the name given to a new student who is ‘fresh’ to the University.
There are lots of activities for ‘freshers’ designed to help you settle in, make friends, and have fun during your first few weeks here at UCLan.
A year away from education that some students take before going to university.
Often students will use their gap year to travel or to gain work experience and additional qualifications.
This is the term used for a person who has completed and passed his or her degree and been awarded their qualification.
This is education and training for students of 18 years and older, who have completed the required amount of study in further education, (college or sixth form).
Institutions such as universities often provide higher education in the form of degree programmes.
This is a degree programme taken at university.
It is normally a first degree which lasts three or four years.
The term usually follows BA or BSc, so BA (Hons) would be Bachelor of Arts with Honours.
This typically covers ‘arts’ subjects such as history, literature, classics, theology film, modern languages and drama.
An insurance choice is the university you accept as your backup choice on your UCAS application.
This is your second choice, and is your backup to your firm choice, in case you don’t meet the entry requirements of your firm choice.
Universities usually refer to this as CI (conditional insurance) or UI (unconditional insurance).
Integrated or undergraduate masters are four year degrees such as Masters of Engineering (MEng), Masters of Science (MSci) etc which comprise three years of undergraduate level study, with a further year to gain a master's qualification.
Some courses require students to attend an interview or audition, so we can assess your suitability before an offer can be made.
This is also a good opportunity for you to ask questions to make sure we're right for you.
Master's degrees are taught courses which allow students to extend their learning for one to two years after they have graduated from their first (bachelor's) degree.
Master's degrees can include abbreviations such as MA (Master of Arts), MSc (Master of Science), MPhil (Master of Philosophy), and MEd (Master of Education).
A module is a unit of study that explores a specific area within a subject.
Your degree will be made up of a number of different modules, varying from course to course.
Some of these will be compulsory, but on some degrees you will be able to choose to study a specific module.
This is where you will find your student record within the Student Hub .
MyUCLan allows you to update your contact details, enrol on your course, register for an elective module and check your module results.
The Student Hub allows you to access your online learning materials, timetables and attendance records, and also to submit assignments, get assignment grades, connect with your tutors and more.
MyUCLan allows you to update contact details, check if you’ve passed a module, enrol on your course, register for an elective module, and much more.
Once you have your UCLan email and password, you can login to the Student Hub.
Also known as a doctorate, this is the highest form of degree awarded and involves you carrying out research with little or no teaching.
You need to have completed at least an undergraduate degree to study at this level.
This is a year of either work experience or study placement in another institution, which can be an optional or compulsory part of a university course.
Students can opt to take their placement year in another country.
These are guides produced by individual universities detailing the unique information about that university and the courses it offers.
A unique 8-digit number preceded by a letter (normally a ‘G’) that identifies you to UCLan.
Your registration number will be on most correspondence from us.
You’re likely to be asked for it if you contact us, so keep it to hand.
A sandwich course includes a placement year, usually taken between the second and final year of study.
This year is “sandwiched” between academic study, giving you the chance to gain work experience in a field related to your course.
Many universities - including us - refer to sandwich courses as courses with a placement year.
A scholarship is an award of financial aid for a student to further their education.
Find out more about our scholarships and bursaries.
A seminar is small group teaching, where students engage in discussion with other students and a member of staff.
Student Finance England, where students from England apply for their finance to help fund their studies.
The Student Loans Company (SLC) is a non-profit making Government-owned organisation to provide loans and grants to students in universities and colleges in the UK.
It’s an online system designed to help you make the most of your time at UCLan by pulling together lots of information about you and your UCLan journey in one easily accessible place.
Use Starfish to view module information (including attendance and grades) and quickly connect with and get help from relevant academic staff and support services around the University.
You’ll find Starfish within the Student Hub.
The Student Hub provides you with all the information you should need while studying with us.
You can find information and advice about all aspects of student life, including course information, health, money and careers.
You can also use the eLearn (Blackboard) online learning environment to access study materials and reading lists.
You can access the Student Hub once you have received your network account details.
An organisation that is run by students, is dedicated to the representation and support of the students at the university and promotes social activities.
The tariff system is a points system designed by UCAS for entry into higher education.
Some higher education institutions express their offer of a place at university in terms of a tariff point score rather than as grades.
An individual or group opportunity for students to discuss their work with a tutor.
UCAS is the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service.
This is the organisation that handles nearly all university applications.
Adjustment is an optional service provided by UCAS for students who meet and exceed the conditions of their firm choice.
UCAS Apply was the name of the UCAS online application system.
It is now known as the UCAS Hub .
UCAS Hub is where you need to submit your application for a full-time undergraduate degree at university in the UK.
You can also see your offers from universities.
Your unique 10-digit identification number given to you by UCAS once you submit your UCAS application.
Once you have no outstanding conditions to meet and you have confirmed your acceptance onto your course here, we’ll send you an email containing your UCLan Network Account username and password, as well as your full UCLan email, which you can use to enrol and access a wide range of services.
You’ll use your UCLan Network Account details to enrol online and your UCLan email to access the Student Portal, where you can access teaching materials, timetables and more.
A credit-card sized plastic ID card you’ll need if you’re studying at UCLan’s Preston or Burnley Campuses.
It’s used to access some buildings (e.g.
the library), is scanned to register your attendance at classes, and used wherever you need to prove your status as a UCLan student.
It also shows your UCLan Network Account Username and Password.
See here to upload a photo for your UCLan ID Card.
This is an offer made by the admissions team which is not dependent on students reaching certain targets.
This is often used when a student has already taken their exams and achieved the required grades.
This offer means that you’ve already met the conditions required to study here, so the place is yours if you want it.
A student studying for their first degree on a programme which normally lasts for three or fours years.
A university is an institute of Higher Education which has the authority to award bachelors and higher degrees and which usually has research facilities.
When we receive your application, we’ll send you an email to the email address you used on your application, to make sure it’s the right one.
You’ll need to click on a link within that email to validate your email address, so we can be sure it’s you we’re emailing.
If you change your email address during the application process, e.g.
from a school/college email to a personal email, we will resend the validation email.
Welcome Week and induction is also known as Freshers' Week.
Induction refers to the wide range of activities you’ll experience when you first arrive at UCLan.
During your induction you’ll receive information about your course and meet other students and tutors; complete administrative tasks (such as ID checks) and have the opportunity to take part in various Welcome Week events.
If you’re going to be living in our halls of residence, we require all residents to complete e-induction, which is different to course induction.
E-induction covers essential information you’ll need about health, safety and security whilst living in halls of residence.
Once your place at UCLan is confirmed, our Admissions Team will send you a welcome pack, which includes an induction guide booklet, containing lots of information about what you will be doing during induction and where to get help and information.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/study/ucas-personal-statement-changes:
UCAS are changing the way personal statements work.
This will affect anyone applying to start university in September 2026.
Here's what that means for you.
Personal statements are a way to help your application stand out.
They can demonstrate your passion for the subject or skills that will help you to succeed.
This can help universities decide whether to make you an offer or not.
However, many students find writing a personal statement stressful.
It can be hard to condense yourself into two sides of A4 paper.
What do you include?
What do you not include?
That is why UCAS have introduced a new, more structured personal statement made up of three questions.
This will give your personal statement a clear focus and allow you to share your achievements in different parts of your life.
This should be a maximum of 4000 characters, including spaces.
UCAS will change personal statements for anyone who is applying to start university in September 2026.
This question allows you to express your interest in the subject, including what motivates you to study this course.
Is it a longstanding passion of yours, or does it align with your career goals?
You should also demonstrate your knowledge about the subject, so admissions officers can feel confident it's the right course for you.
You could do this by discussing the kind of topics you will be studying.
For example, if you want to study law, does one type of law interest you more than others and why?
This is your chance to show that you have the ability to succeed on your course.
You should talk about the knowledge you already have in this subject, such as key theories or areas that you have enjoyed studying.
You should also read the course description and modules to identify the skills you will need.
That could include essay writing, critical thinking and teamwork skills.
Don't just write a long list of skills - provide evidence and show how they would help you on your course.
Here are some examples:
This is your chance to show who you are outside of education and demonstrate how it can help your studies.
This can include sports, hobbies or volunteering.
For example, if you want to study business and have volunteered in a charity shop, you could talk about how this made you interested in management.
Or if you're part of a football team, you could talk about the teamwork and communication skills this has taught you.
You could also discuss any wider reading you have done around the subject.
Synthesise the ideas in the book and present your thoughts about it.
This again demonstrates your interest in that area.
The UCAS personal statement changes will affect people applying to start university from September 2026.
Students applying to start university in September 2025 will not be affected.
Check out some more of our advice for applying to university.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/study/global-opportunities/study-abroad:
Studying abroad is a life-changing experience that broadens your academic, personal and professional horizons.
There are many reasons to study abroad, but ultimately it all comes down to you making the most of it.
Being away from home for a long time can be challenging, but immersing yourself in a new country will make it one of the most rewarding things you can do during your time at university.
Living overseas can be an exciting opportunity to become more independent and confident.
As you'll be abroad for a full academic year, you're bound to make new friends.
With that comes learning some of the language and experiencing a whole new culture.
Seeing how other countries live can be both humbling and enriching, and you're sure to get something worthwhile out of it.
It's always great to have friends around the world, giving you even more reasons to return to your favourite places.
You'll explore foreign environments and find your way around new places, giving you a confidence boost as well has being a really handy skill to master for when you travel the world beyond your studies.
Discover new ways of learning, utilise different facilities and engage with academics from around the world.
Studying abroad can enhance your academic experience in many ways.
You'll experience different teaching styles from expert academics prominent in their fields.
You will have access to unique courses, making the most of opportunities you might not get at home in the UK.
You'll study alongside native students, helping you build a network of international contacts.
This is invaluable if you want to pursue and academic career with an international community.
Improve your career prospects by gaining qualities that give you a competitive edge in the job market.
Employers value candidates who have international experience, cross-cultural skills, and a global perspective.
You might also meet new professional contacts and gain insights into different industries and markets.
For those with language skills, experience speaking with native speakers will help you stand out from the crowd.
Industries that desire international language skills will be more attracted to your application.
Our Japanese partners are specifically for Modern Language students.
There may be options to study in Japan or Korea through the International Student Exchange Programme (ISEP).
Our Korean partners are specifically for Modern Language students.
Our team are here to help you with any queries you might have, or take a look at our FAQs.
A large number of our courses offer the opportunity to study abroad for a year, normally after your second year.
While studying abroad, you will study similar modules and classes as you would if you were at home.
After spending your second year overseas, you come home to finish your degree for your final year(s).
You will have access to financial support and more through our international exchange programmes , which are vital in getting you to where you want to go.
This provides a perfect opportunity to not only see the world beyond our shores, but to bolster your own personal and professional skills.
Time spent abroad can be invaluable, and helps you stand out from the crowd in a competitive global market.
Not all courses have the option to study abroad.
If you'd like to know if a subject you're interested in has a study abroad option, feel free to get in touch with the course staff or contact our study abroad team and we'll be sure to let you know.
The Turing Scheme was launched in 2021 by the UK government to support international study and work abroad.
It was launched to replace the Erasmus+ programme, which the UK has left following its departure from the EU.
The Turing Scheme provides universities with funding to offer grants to students to carry out either a study or work placement throughout the world*
Students must study or work for a minimum of four weeks and a maximum of 12 months.
UCLan must apply for funding via Turing each year.
This is not a guaranteed fund, therefore students should check with the Global Opportunities team.
Develop your personal skills, gain international experience, improve employability and secure life skills.
With over 300 member universities in the USA, and over 50 additional countries to choose from, ISEP really does open up the world.
The International Student Exchange Programme (ISEP) is an international network that encourages student exchanges all around the world.
These exchanges allow students to ‘swap’ places with other students at universities that are also members of ISEP.
Exchanges can be for a semester or for the full academic year.
How much does it cost?
Students pay a fee to their home university based on the cost of tuition, fees, housing and a full meal plan (if applicable) at the home institution.
An application fee of $100 * and a placement fee of $395 * is paid directly to ISEP by the student.
Students that study through the ISEP programme may be eligible to receive £1000 ** bursary.
For more information, please contact the Study Abroad Team .
The ISEP website is a great source for information including Guides and Tips for your exchange.
* as of August 2020.
** as of August 2020 subject to funding being available.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/study/global-opportunities/summer-schools:
Our international summer school opportunities are perfect for studying around the world in a shorter amount of time.
If you've ever wanted to study abroad but don't want to, or can't be, away from home for a long period of time, then summer schools are perfect for you.
Summer schools abroad allow you to gain new skills, meet new people and discover new cultures.
All the while enriching your academic experience for a summertime overseas.
Summer schools are short programs held during the summer months, usually when you have finished your current year of study at home.
They offer a choice of courses in different subjects while providing you with an opportunity to study abroad.
As summer schools only take place over a short period of time, they are a perfect chance to see what life is like studying abroad with less of a commitment.
We have many opportunities with our partners around the world.
Our list of destinations is always expanding, some of our most popular are:
If there is somewhere you have in mind, feel free to get in touch with our global opportunities team .
We're always happy to answer any questions you might have.
Get in touch with our team and we'll walk you through your options and support.
Summer schools are an opportunity to expand your academic skills and knowledge.
They help you keep up to date with your current studies, and take part in extracurricular activities.
Perfect for those who want to pursue a career in academia, or enter a career in their own field with even more knowledge.
Attending summer schools abroad helps you build a global network with peers, teachers, and professors.
This can be rewarding, especially if you are looking to enter a career in a global industries - those connections could help you get your first job.
Spending time abroad also enables you to grow as a person.
You'll have the chance to explore a different culture, learn a new language, and make new connections with people from all over the world.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/study/global-opportunities/internships-abroad:
Our summertime internships are a fantastic opportunity to gain work experience at organisations around the world.
Our global internships allow you to gain work experience abroad during summer.
Internships usually last between 4-12 weeks, and offer an amazing opportunity to gain experience working in an international setting.
This is perfect for those who want to work abroad, but don't want to be away from home for too long.
We help pay some of the costs for anyone who secures an internship abroad.
This allows you to explore the world and work somewhere new, while not breaking the bank.
Where you can take an internship, and how much we help pay for, can vary between vacancies.
You can view vacancies for internships abroad to see if there is anywhere that you want to go.
Interning abroad helps you stand out in the job market.
You show employers that you are adaptable, independent, and willing to take on new challenges outside your comfort zone.
In a survey of more than 3,700 IES Abroad alumni, 83% of students who interned abroad said that they gained new skills that influenced their career path.
On top of that, nearly 90% of IES Abroad alumni found their first job within six months of graduation.
Interning abroad also helps you build a global network with peers, mentors, teachers, and professors.
As well as gaining work experience, internships abroad also enable you to grow as a person.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/study/global-opportunities/summer-camp-usa:
Want to do something exciting this summer?
Dive into an unique blend of work, travel, and unforgettable experiences with Summer Camps USA.
When you work at a Summer Camp in a USA or Canada, you'll spend nine weeks between June to August working in America - with 30 days to yourself after working at the camp to travel.
You'll get the chance to work as a camp counsellor, support staff, or activity specialist.
Summer camps offer a range of activities such as sports, arts and crafts, music, drama, and outdoor adventures.
The main purpose of these camps is to provide a fun and educational experience for children and teenagers during their summer vacation.
You'll get to work with campers, gain valuable skills in leadership, teamwork, and communication, and immerse yourself in the culture.
Our friendly team are here to help you with any queries you might have, or find out more on BUNAC's website

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/study/global-opportunities/international-exchange-students:
If you're looking for a UK University experience, for a semester or for a full year, the University of Central Lancashire has plenty to offer.
We welcome international exchange students wishing to spend time studying in the UK to our supportive community.
We are one of the biggest and most diverse universities in the UK.
Our safe campus has a friendly feel with lots of popular destinations to explore nearby.
You’re sure to make friends for life when you study with us.
We have exchange agreements with almost 100 universities from around the world.
In Europe we are part of the Erasmus+ scheme and we have partners in the USA, Canada, Mexico, Australia and Hong Kong through the Worldwide Exchange programme.
For areas outside of Erasmus+ and the Worldwide Exchange programme, we are also involved with the International Student Exchange Programme (ISEP), which covers the rest of the world.
Interested in studying with us under one of our exchange agreements?
You'll need to contact your home institution for information on the application process.
You can also contact our friendly team, and we'll help you with your application.
The University of Central Lancashire is the perfect destination for a world-class education and a unique student experience.
You'll always have something to do while studying with us.
Discover more about what student life in Preston.
Our Preston Campus is right at the heart of the city, minutes away from the vibrant shopping centre, attractions and nightlife.
Take a virtual tour around our Preston Campus.
We have a broad range of subjects to choose from - from law and sciences, to arts and healthcare - there will be something to suit you.
Browse our subject areas, find your inspiration and study with us.
We try to accommodate and welcome all international exchange students.
However, we do have a number subjects that are exempt from our study abroad degree programmes.
The following subjects currently are not part of our international students study abroad programme:
If you have any questions regarding these subjects areas, or would like to know what your options are, please contact our friendly team and we will support you however we can.
Take a look at our frequently asked questions and find out everything you need to know.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/return-to-study-business:
Are you 21 or older and interested in business, management, tourism, or hospitality?
If you lack the Level 3 qualifications for a degree, our Return to Study programme can get you ready for higher education.
Our fast-track Return to Study Entry programme is delivered part-time over four weeks.
The course prepares you to apply for the next intake of a relevant degree programme.
We are passionate about making sure education is accessible for everyone and want to help you reach your goals.
Consider our Return to Study programme if you're over 21 and want to develop your skills and experience working in business.
If you want a change of career but don't have the entry qualifications then this programme is for you.
We'll help you develop the knowledge and skills needed to help apply for the next intake of a relevant degree programme.
Studying at degree level may seem daunting, we'll help to break down the jargon and introduce you to the skills you need for academic study:
This course will help you to refresh your learning skills and build your self-confidence.
It will also provide subject introductions to the full range of business-related degrees delivered by the University of Central Lancashire.
Our part time Return to Study Entry programme runs over four weeks.
You'll get a taster of university study through a combination of face to face, online sessions as well as self-guided study.
The first session will be a full day on our Preston Campus from 10am – 4pm.
After that, sessions run on Wednesdays 1pm – 5pm via online delivery.
The programme will begin with an on-campus session where you will meet the course team, our student ambassadors and tour the campus.
Discover the work placement opportunities in International Hospitality Management
During the Return to Study business course, you'll be able to apply to a range of degrees with an integrated foundation year within the areas of business, management, tourism and hospitality.
Graduates from our courses have gone on to work with:
There are no specific entry requirements, applicants will be assessed on the basis of a personal statement which must be submitted as part of the application for consideration.
This programme is only available to UK/Home students.
This programme is free of charge.
However, we recommend consideration of the cost of continuing into a full-time degree as students with existing financial commitments will need to consider the different modes of study, support, and financial options that exist.
Mature students are often in a position of needing to be able to work around study to financially support themselves and dependants.
For more information please see our degree programme course pages.
Further information:
This is a blended learning course which is taught predominately online.
We'll support you to develop the skills needed for the teaching and learning methods used in higher education.
Completion of the course will require:
The School has strong links with local employers from large organisations to local SMEs.
During the programme, you'll be able to apply to study at Foundation Year (Year 0):
Entry to these courses will be dependent on successful application, interviews and other entry requirements.
Please note there is no guarantee of progression onto these programmes.
Apply online and email SoBusRTS@uclan.ac.uk for any further enquiries.
This course is delivered by the School of Business

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/return-to-study-nursing:
Are you over 21 and interested in a career in nursing, but lack the Level 3 formal qualifications to apply for a nursing degree?
Take the next step with our nursing entry programme.
A career in nursing is very rewarding.
We know the thought of studying at university can be daunting, especially if it's been a while since you last studied.
Or perhaps you studied recently but don’t have the standard course entry requirements?
This course will refresh your learning skills and build your self-confidence.
If you don't meet the entry requirements for your chosen course, there are two options:
If you need support to put in an application for degree study, this programme will help you develop the knowledge and skills.
We will break down the barriers and introduce you to:
This programme is for those over 21 with work experience in health care.
You may not currently have the entry qualifications but you will show the qualities and skills required.
Our part time Return to Study Entry Programme runs over six-weeks.
You'll get a taster of university study through a combination of online sessions as well as self-guided study.
Sessions run on Wednesdays 6pm - 8pm and Saturdays 10am - 2pm via online delivery.
During the course you will be able to apply to study one of the different nursing pathways at UCLan across all three UK campuses.
Depending on your start date, these courses will include:
You may also wish to apply for the FdA Health and Social Care (with Foundation Year) .
Alternatively you may consider our FdA Health and Social Care .
You can choose to apply for different nursing pathways depending on the date you start your Return to Study programme.
This supports applicants who wish to enter any of the nursing pathways starting in either April or September:
Successful completion of the March or November course allows for application to:
This course allows for progression to the following courses at Preston Campus:
The following course at Burnley Campus:
The following courses at Westlakes Campus:
If you are successful in gaining a place onto one of our nursing degrees, you will be on the path to a successful career as a nurse.
According to the NHS , a nursing degree makes you highly employable.
94% of graduates getting a job within three months of finishing their course.
Graduates from our nursing courses progress into careers in a wide variety of settings including:
This course is run in partnership with Lancashire Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust at Preston College.
There are no specific entry requirements.
Applicants get assessed on their personal statement.
Personal statements must get submitted as part of the application for consideration.
Our guide to completing a personal statement for adults can be found below.
When we review your application, we will consider:
Unsure if you are eligible?
Contact our friendly Course Enquiries Team to talk through your options.
For those wishing to apply for Nursing, acceptance to the degree course is subject to enhanced DBS and Occupational Health clearance.
We recommend you consider the cost of continuing onto a full-time degree if you have existing financial commitments.
You'll need to consider the different modes of study, support, and financial options available.
For more information:
Contact:
The course is virtual means which means that activity will be online.
This can include lectures, discussions, and practical activity.
You have support in accessing these activities and developing the skills required for teaching and learning methods used in professional education.
Sessions will take place on Wednesdays 6-8pm and Saturdays 10am-2pm through online delivery.
Completion of the course is based on
User-friendly surveys, questions and checks will take place in the self-guided learning elements to check understanding.
You'll have in-session feedback on the development of your knowledge and skill.
You'll also have online practice papers for a numeracy test.
This is for those applying for nursing degrees to complete as well as a written personal reflection and action plan in preparation for application to our pre-registration nursing programmes.
The January course supports applicants who wish to enter our March or September Nursing courses.
Successful progression from the November and March Return to Study courses allows only for progression onto the BSc (Hons) Nursing with Registered Nurse (Adult) Practice-Based Pathway – delivered in partnership with Lancashire Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust at Preston College.
The July course allows only for progression to the Nursing degrees delivered at our Preston Campus.
Nursing pathway choice
This supports applicants who wish to enter any of the nursing pathways starting in either March or September: BSc (Hons)
You may also be interested in applying to our Health and Social Care courses:
Acceptance on to the degree course is subject to enhanced DBS and occupational health clearance.
From September 2020, new annual payments will be available of at least £5000 per annum for all eligible nursing and other health degrees through the NHS Learning Support Fund .
This course is delivered by the School of Nursing and Midwifery

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/return-to-study-sport:
Are you passionate about a career in sports but don't have the formal qualifications for a degree?
Our Sports Return to Study programme could be the perfect fit if you're 21 or older.
Our fast-track Return to Study entry programme is delivered part-time over six weeks.
The course prepares you to apply for a relevant degree programme.
You could be eligible for this course if you're over 21 and have experience working in areas such as:
We'll help you develop the knowledge and skills needed to apply for the next intake of a relevant degree programme.
Studying at degree level may seem daunting.
This course helps to break down the jargon and introduces you to skills you'll need for degree-level study, such as:
This course will help you to refresh your learning skills and build your confidence.
It will also provide subject introductions to the full range of sports-related degrees delivered by the university.
Sessions run on Wednesdays 6pm - 8pm and Saturdays 9am - 11am via online delivery.
The programme will finish with an optional on-campus session.
During this session, you can meet the course team, our student ambassadors and tour the campus and facilities
Discover our Health Professions courses
During the Return to Study Sports course, you'll be able to apply to a range of courses within the areas of sport and exercise at Year 0 or Year 1.
Graduates from our courses progress into careers in a wide variety of settings including:
As well as a diverse range of careers from teaching and personal training to public services and health management.
There are no specific entry requirements for this course.
We'll asses your application based on a personal statement which you must submit as part of your application.
This programme is only available to UK/home students.
However, if you are continuing to a full-time degree, we recommend considering the cost involved.
Think about any existing financial commitments and explore the different modes of study, support and financial options that exist.
Students over 21 often need to be able to work around studying to financially support themselves and their dependents.
This course is taught online.
Sessions are on Wednesdays 6pm – 8pm and Saturdays 9am – 11am.
During the programme, you'll be able to apply to study a foundation year or undergraduate degree course.
These include a wide variety of sports-related courses we currently offer.
For progression to Year 0:
For progression to Year 1:
Entry to these courses is dependent on successful application, interviews and other entry requirements.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/student-stories/returning-to-study-as-a-mature-student:
Chelsea - Biosciences, BSc
So you’re over the age of 21 and taking the leap back into education?
Well first off – be proud of yourself.
It’s a huge step, perhaps you have family commitments, a job, it’s huge!
Whether you’re studying a subject you’re passionate about, to help with career development, or returning to education after a break, age is just a number and makes no difference when it comes to going to university.
You might have many thoughts/feelings about returning to education, here are some common fears I’ve found, plus my own personal experience and why you don’t need to worry.
It might have been some time since you last stepped into the classroom, which can be an overwhelming thought.
I know I felt overwhelmed at the prospect of all things study related.
However, there will be many others feeling the same way, whether you are 18, 21 or 50.
Studying a degree is a challenging but exciting experience.
Your lecturers will be there to support you and the University has many support teams, including the academic study support team who run Study Skills workshops to help you with assignments.
There’s also the Wellbeing team, who can help with your mental health and wellbeing whilst studying.
I started my degree, single and child free.
A year later I was pregnant and applying for a two-year gap in my studies.
I returned to study with a toddler and a partner who was also in full-time education.
I’ll be honest here: if you have children, are a single parent or have a partner in full-time work/education, studying is tough.
However, it is manageable and there are plenty of ways you can maximise your time studying.
Although it might take some time for you to get your head around things at the beginning, it’s important to remember that you have priorities, responsibilities and commitments that other students might not have.
However, your lecturers will be aware of this and will be able to provide support where possible.
If you have a partner or family close by, use them as much as you can!
Even if your partner is working, compromise.
You drop the kids off, they pick them up.
You have Saturday morning to study, they take the afternoon.
Or vice versa.
Work together.
That is the most important part of balancing study and family life.
" Some of my best friends are five years younger than me and they all care about my family.
We have so much in common that I feel comfortable sharing my worries and anxieties.
So don’t worry about fitting in, you’ll soon find there’s no right or wrong way to be a mature student.
Honestly, I thought about this for months before returning to study and the quick answer is yes, you will most definitely fit in.
Some of my best friends are five years younger than me and they all care about my family.
This was one of my main worries.
All I can say is definitely not.
If something doesn’t make sense, don’t be afraid to speak up and ask for clarification.
Whatever course you’re studying, lecturers are there to help and they WANT to help you.
Just because you’re older doesn’t mean you know more than your cohort.
You’re studying a new degree too!
You’ll find a lot of students come straight from college but there’s more mature students than you might think.
I have been a Student Ambassador for two years now and I have met plenty of first year students who are in their late 20s, early 30s.
I study Biology and besides myself, there are two other mature students.
You’ll find there’s a variety of age ranges and life experiences, whatever course you study.
I hope that this blog has eased your worries, even just a little bit.
You aren’t alone.
Remember why you are returning to study.
The main thing for me is that I know I’m going to be making a difference in what I’m doing.
I want to be a teacher and studying as a mature student has increased my confidence, improved my people skills and enabled me to obtain teaching experience in ways I never expected.
Tackle this with an open mind, an open heart and enjoy yourself!
This is your journey to achieving your goals, whatever they are.
Good luck!

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/student-stories/returning-to-study-through-foundation-entry:
Martina - Social Sciences
After a major life-changing event, I decided to re-evaluate things in my life and do something solely for myself.
My husband had returned to study as a mature student and I was inspired by how much he’d got out of doing his studies, so I decided to take the plunge and become a student too!
Once I had made the decision to return to study, I browsed UCLan’s website to get an idea of the courses on offer.
I’ve always been an avid reader and loved proofreading, so the English Language and Linguistics Foundation Year seemed like the ideal course for me.
I thought learning the ‘whys’ and 'wherefores’ as to how grammar is used, plus the history of how the English language came into being sounded fascinating and perhaps I could make my love of reading into a career.
The foundation year has given me an excellent understanding of how to ‘be’ a student.
I hadn’t done any formal education (other than work-based training courses) since leaving high school, so I was completely new to research, referencing, critical thinking, analysis and academic essay writing.
The four core Foundation modules included:
Developing Academic Knowledge : amongst other things, we learned the differences between quantitative and qualitative analysis, and we discussed how we are influenced by filter bubbles, echo chambers and moral panics.
Essential Study Skills : we learned about the academic style of writing, research referencing, correlation versus causation, how to write and structure an essay.
We also learned how to conduct literature reviews and identified the many databases and libraries which are available to help with our research.
Learning by Experience : this was a group work project which tested our team working and research/presentation skills.
We had to research and design an academic poster, and complete a reflection diary based on our experience.
Digital Skills : this module introduced us to different ways of presenting our research in an interactive manner using blogs, vlogs, videos, Wakelets, Sway etc, rather than submitting a standard Word essay.
" Returning to study was a lot easier than I thought it was going to be, although I did have many wobbles along the way.
I actively participated in the lectures and seminars and I wasn’t afraid to ask questions or seek clarity if I didn’t understand something.
I have surprised myself with how well I have adapted, and I feel like a fully-fledged student now!
My proudest moment in my foundation year had to be the ‘commendation’ on my first presentation due to the way I had used in-text citations and references.
I am also so proud of each piece of work I have submitted so far; I’ve listened and taken on board my lecturer’s feedback and each successive piece of work has improved because of that.
I will soon be going on to study Education and Sociology and I feel so much more confident going into it now that I have successfully produced several academic essays, an academic poster, two group presentations and much more!

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/student-stories/going-back-to-university:
Rebekah - Midwifery
Nine years after starting my first degree I took the plunge to return to education to train for the career I’d always dreamed of: midwifery.
It felt like there was so much at stake this time but it’s a decision I have never looked back from.
Before I started, I’d attended an Open Day, seen the facilities I’d be using, found my subject area in the library and met a few course mates, which made me feel much better about settling into university study.
UCLan offered me the right balance of teaching and self-directed study time so I could plan family life around my study days.
The biggest draw was the links that the University has to excellent industry placement areas and students’ employability record: I was sold.
I left my job, moved back from a city I’d lived in for eight years and packed my school bag.
I didn’t sleep the night before I started as I was so nervous.
The thoughts racing through my head ranged from whether I would have the stamina to keep up with the workload, if I didn’t like the course after making so many sacrifices and making friends as a mature student.
Since that nerve-wracking first day I’ve made a wonderful bunch of friends on my course of all ages and backgrounds.
BSc (Hons) Midwifery has lots of mature students and in general, there are more and more people returning to education, so there’s not just classes of 18-year olds.
We did quite a lot of group work in the beginning, which helped us to get to know one another and quickly make friends.
We also took part in an activity day in the first week which also broke the ice.
We were all very open to getting to know each other and the support we can give each other when deadlines or university pressures are there.
The friends I’ve made will be friends for life.
Outside of university, we’ve had many meals out and even managed a little break away (pre-COVID!).
" I’ve made a wonderful bunch of friends on my course of all ages and backgrounds.
BSc (Hons) Midwifery has lots of mature students and in general, there are more and more people returning to education.
During my time at UCLan, I’ve been taught by inspiring midwives and researchers.
The staff and my course mates have been really supportive, and the Academic Skills Support team have helped me relearn the academic skills and referencing that I’d long forgotten.
The team came in and ran assignment workshops with our class, as there were many people with a range of previous study experiences.
I also took advantage of one of their services where they can provide feedback on assignments.
Since then, I’ve also used their helpful online resources on topics like ‘Planning an academic assignment’ and ‘Critical Thinking’.
The team have been an invaluable resource to me and have helped me readjust to studying.
One advantage of studying as a mature student is that I am older and wiser than I was the first time.
I understand the importance of work life balance and making sure I am organised so that my commitments outside of university don’t suffer.
I am more resilient, more focused and more determined to do well.
My friends and family can see the difference that returning to education has made to my life and the fire UCLan has lit in me to be the best midwife I can be.
My advice to somebody considering returning to study is do your research and have a compelling reason for why you want to study, as this will see you through any tough days or deadlines.
Once you’re sure what you want to study attend open events, ask all the questions you have to arm yourself with all the information that you need to make an informed choice.
Try and connect with any current students if you can, as they can share their experience with you too.
I would also say, to return to education you need a pinch of courage, I lost count of the surprised faces when I said I was going back to university, but I just knew it was the right thing for me and my future.
Every day I pinch myself that 10 years after leaving school I’m finally doing something that I love.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/support/armed-forces:
We provide a full support service for armed forces personnel and their families.
You could be entitled to course funding to help you take the step into civilian life.
We'll be there for you from settling into university to finding suitable training or careers advice.
We work in partnership with Lancashire County Council, the NHS and HQ North West in the support and delivery of the Lancashire Armed Forces Covenant Hub providing ongoing daily support to the armed forces community across Lancashire.
We have a long history of developing military veterans and offer a vast range of flexible courses that can be studied full or part-time, at foundation, degree and master’s level.
Our courses cover subjects ranging from sport and business to computing, nursing, engineering and policing.
Whatever path you choose, we are proud to support serving and ex-military personnel and their families in developing skills and knowledge, in turn enhancing employability.
Whether you are still serving or have been resettled, you might be entitled to full or partial funding for an undergraduate or master’s degree.
The Enhanced Learning Credits Accreditation Services (ELCAS) provide funding for educational courses to enhance your skills and knowledge base.
The University has been a registered ELCAS service provider since 2006 and has had more than 300 military personnel enrol.
For more information on how to apply for funding visit the ELCAS website and reference our provider ID = 1275.
If your chosen course doesn’t appear on the list of ELCAS approved courses, please contact the Student Fees and Funding Team or telephone +44 (0)1772 892440 .
Please forward your Claim Authorisation Note (CAN) to the team to ensure your Enhanced Learning Credits are applied to your tuition fee account.
If you've been out of education for many years, our free fast-track Return to Study programmes will help you make the transition to university study.
We work closely with the College for Military Veterans and Emergency Services (CMVES) , and have achieved an Armed Forces Covenant Gold award and national acclaim for helping service members resettle.
The CMVES team based at UCLan can help you and your family make a smooth transition from a career in the military services to civilian life.
Specialist staff who have experience in the armed forces will provide you with professional guidance and advice if you are planning to leave the armed forces, or are already a military veteran.
You can speak to a member of the team about anything from resettlement and starting a new career to ELC funding, qualifications, family support and making the most of civilian life.
It is a great opportunity for you to find out what possibilities exist and get a head start.
Understanding the transition pathway for ex-service personnel discharged due to physical challenge
The Forces in Mind Trust has awarded £149,625 to the University of Central Lancashire (UCLan), in partnership with the University of Salford, to undertake a two-year research project to understand the transition to civilian life for ex-Service personnel with physical conditions as a direct result of Service.
The research will identify the support and provisions that are available during transition for ex-Service personnel with service-related physical conditions, or physical conditions acquired whilst serving, and offer suggestions on what further, or better, support could be offered.
Project research will comprise an extensive review of relevant literature and existing data, consultation with policy and practice stakeholders, and a qualitative study with a cohort of medically discharged Service personnel.
The University are also partnering with the University of Salford on the ground-breaking research considering Sanctions, Support & Service Leavers: Experiences of the UK social security system in transition , Forces in Mind Trust (FiMT) , £299,150.
This three year project which will complete in 2023 follows the previous Sanctions, Support & Service Leavers: Welfare conditionality and transitions from military to civilian life project also funded by FiMT , £172,000.
The University of Central Lancashire is privileged to host one of the SCiP hubs in the North West of England with a particular focus on Lancashire.
The University is a dedicated to supporting the armed forces community and is one of the few Universities to hold the Gold ERS award , demonstrating our commitment in this area.
The local picture surrounding the armed forces community in Lancashire identifies from the 2011 Census that across Lancashire there were 2,214 residents who stated they were employed by the armed forces.
Throughout the county there are a recorded 1,137 service children in receipt of pupil premium (Lancashire County Council, 2019).
In this area of England Lancaster and Fleetwood, Wigan and Blackpool South remain in the UK’s top ten constituency areas for recruiting personnel to the armed forces (House of Commons, 2019) making the North one of the largest areas for recruitment of armed forces personnel.
The hub was established in June 2019 and we welcome Schools, Further Education Providers and Higher Education Institutions across the region to join the partnership and work with us to help improve education outcomes of young people from military families.
By signing up to the partnership we ask partners to commit to the following:
Engaging young people from military families through the following:
Actions taking place between the Hub and Lancashire County Council:
Baseline survey to establish:
For more information please contact our Hub Chairs: Rebecca Steel or Dr Celia Hynes .

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/news/game-on-for-neil-after-degree-helps-secure-dream-job:
Mature student turns hobby into full-time career
A Preston man has turned his love of gaming into a full-time career, after completing a BSc (Hons) degree in Computer Games Development at the University of Central Lancashire (UCLan) and landing his dream job.
Neil Osbaldeston, from Ingol, will start his new role as a Junior Programmer at Runcorn-based d3t  just one week after graduating from the University - after impressing the software engineering company during a 14-month placement.
The placement came about as a result of Neil meeting d3t’s Studio Technical Director during his second year of studies when he made it to the finals of Rising Star, one of the gaming industry’s most prestigious competitions which sees participants completing a number of challenges.
Before studying at UCLan, 38-year-old Neil, who attended Our Lady’s Catholic High School, had a varied career path before returning to his number one passion.
Going straight into an apprenticeship in aircraft engineering at BAE Systems after leaving school, he also spent five years as an aircraft engineering technician in the Royal Navy.
Neil said: “One of the best things about UCLan is the courses truly match what the industry is looking for in terms of skills, knowledge and experience.
The placement proved to be invaluable to me, allowing me to get hands on and of course land a dream job in the process!
I enjoyed every single day and I knew it was what I really wanted to do.
“I’d like to thank my tutors, including Nicky Danino, as their support and the experiences provided through the course have resulted in opportunities which have helped me realise my lifelong ambitions.
“I’ve always been into gaming, so it’s brilliant to now be on the other side of things working in development.
It feels good to know all the hard work has been worth it and I can now really get stuck into a job working in an industry I love.”
Neil is one of 3,500 students who graduated in front of family and friends on the University’s Preston Campus this week.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/student-stories/aicha-khan:
Aicha Khan is currently in Year 2 of the BA (Hons) Children, Schools and Families after completing the Foundation Year Health and Social Care course and credits the course with some big improvements in her life from growing in confidence to becoming a better parent.
When talking about her motivation to come to university, Aicha explains, “I initially joined with an idea of either becoming a nurse or a teacher, but teaching was what I thought I wanted the most.
After completing the one Foundation Year Health and Social Care course, Aicha progressed onto the three-year BA (Hons) Children, Schools and Families degree.
During the Foundation Year, we were introduced to all the subject areas that were available, but it was the course leader for Children, Schools and Families that really sold the course – it sounded perfect for me.
One of the good things about the foundation year was it gave me time to make the right choice about the course I would go on to.”
Talking about returning to education as a mature student, Aicha commented, “I didn’t go to college after school as I started a family quite young.
I had kept busy with volunteering which I’d been able to fit around being a mother.
I’d done catering, admin, teaching assistant, and anything else I could to get some experience.
My children are now 11 and 7 so where they were both at school, I started to look at courses for me to get my career going”
“Somebody suggested university, but I wasn’t sure.
However, I came to an open event and pretty much signed up there and then because I was so convinced by the tutors.
I always had the ambition to go to university but never thought I’d be able to.”
“I live in Burnley so having the campus here is really convenient for me.
I wasn’t sure I’d have the grades needed to get onto the course, but the foundation year was available to me.
I’m really glad I did the foundation year because he helped me pick the course that was right for me and it helped me get used to studying at this level.
The support with things like researching and referencing have helped me, and my grades are getting better and better as a result.”
When talking about the BA (Hons) Children, Schools and Families course, Aicha talks about the wide range of opportunities available to students after graduation, “if you are unsure which area you want to work in, this gives you a broad understanding of children, the services available and policies in place.
I know I have so many skills and the knowledge to go in so many different directions where I can work with children and their families.”
One surprising benefit was the way it has positively impacted her parenting style.
Aicha explains, “In the child development module, I learnt about how children sooth themselves and I better understand some of my own children’s habits.
I’ve also changed the way I speak to my children in different situations.
It also really helped me learn how to best support my son that transitioned from primary school to high school by knowing how to talk through the changes.
It’s really helped me become a better parent.”
Aicha highlights the importance of taking advantage of the opportunities available at university, “last year I was the course rep and become a student ambassador.
This year I am the School President for the School of Social Work, Care and Community – and that was the first time a UCLan Burnley student had been a School President!”
“These opportunities have helped my confidence so much.
Whilst I know how important it is to have a degree, it’s the life experiences that really count!
My life experiences are really helping with this course because I can relate to so much of what we are learning about.”
“I worked hard to make an impact as the course rep in year 1 and was encouraged to run for president by my lecturers and the SU rep.
To become School President, I had to campaign and publish a manifest.
I wasn’t sure I’d get many votes, but I was really surprised but delighted when I was elected.”
Talking about the campaign, she explains, “I made promises that I knew I could keep.
I wanted to improve communication between lecturers and course reps; give Burnley campus more exposure, get more activities at the Burnley SU and continue to support students that need help.
I feel that I’ve already made progress on all of them.”
Other benefits to this role include being on the Student Council which looks at Big Idea improvements that the university can implement to improve the student experience and being involved in the recent recruitment of the UCLan SU Chief Executive.
Talking about the overall impact of her experience at UCLan, Aicha explained, “I’m like a different person now.
People that haven’t seen me for a while don’t recognise me!
I loved working as a Student Ambassador – I love it and it’s helped me realise just how many skills that I do have and how much I want a job helping people.”
Looking ahead, Aicha plans to focus on her studies in her final year but might look at one of the elected roles within the SU after her graduation.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/student-stories/rupak-shrestha:
As a returning UCLan student, Rupak previously studied MSc Network Computing and decided to return to develop his skills in business management.
When I first visited UCLan back in 2010 to study Business Administration with Professional Placement , I was surprised to see how huge it was.
I was fascinated to see the lecture halls, the laboratories, the library, and other services the University offered like sports, gym, and language classes.
The enrolment process was very straightforward, and I was delighted to have received help from the <i> team.
On my very first day, I became sure that I made the right choice.
I found the library service provided by UCLan very helpful, similarly, the careers services provided by UCLan is praiseworthy.
I am not sure if all students use this service, but I made the most out of it.
From refining my CV and getting my job application reviewed to having a mock interview session, I benefitted it from all.
As a result of this help, I was able to secure a placement opportunity successfully.
I always wanted to join the gym, but I never did and instead I used the MyWellness app provided by the University, which helped me stay active and fit.
The most enjoyable part of my course was the interactive way of teaching and lectures, discussions, group activities and seminars help students engage and emerge out of their comfort zone and test our knowledge.
For me, the challenging part was the group debate assessment for Leading Managing and Developing People module which, in addition to requiring the knowledge of the subject area and the confidence of speaking, also demanded excellent time-management skill.
To make it more challenging the session was filmed.
Nonetheless, I was able to complete the assessment with good grades which has instilled more confidence in me.
The course provided a residential trip, which was an immense learning opportunity.
I was able to unlock my strengths and weaknesses, and the self-reflection provided profound learning opportunity about myself and prepared me for future challenges.
The tutors and professors are very supportive which enabled me to achieve great results.
They are readily available to offer help either by face-to-face meetings or via digital means..
Additionally, the personal feedback I received helped me grow both personally and professionally.
I have found that the British education is focused more on activity-based learning.
The assessments test the knowledge of the subject area and various group activities validate if students can apply their knowledge in dealing with real-world scenarios.
Additionally, British education also encourages students to present their arguments against the existing works of literature, whereas in
As an international student, I was worried that COVID-19 would have a severe impact on my MBA course resulting in extended course duration.
However, UCLan was very prompt in planning and implementing alternative ways of delivering lectures and conducting assessments.
Therefore, with no disruptions, I completed the first year of my MBA programme during the first nationwide lockdown.
It was a unique experience for me, and I was impressed that UCLan effectively dealt with such an unprecedented situation.
Additionally, I have great respect for UCLan for helping students academically, mentally, and financially during the pandemic.
My first impression of Preston was that it was a very calm and quiet city.
Even the city centre was free from the hustle and bustle, making it more relaxed.
I was assuming that I would have to rely on public transportation but was pleasantly surprised how the campus and the grocery stores are within minutes of walking distance.
I lived in a UCLan registered private accommodation which I found with the University’s help.
Preston is a very safe student-friendly place to live.
I usually go to nearby parks in my spare time.
Walking along the river in the park and taking pictures as I walk in the city is something I have been doing lately.
Also, there are quite a few pubs around the area I live, so I do go out with friends in some evenings.
Additionally, the train station is only about ten-minute walk from the University.
Students can get discounts while travelling, which is helpful.
Similarly, there are plenty of restaurants and cafés that serve diverse cuisines for dining-in or the city also has plenty of takeaways.
I have always loved trying a variety of food options and am a big fan of Doner Kebabs.
I have visited Blackpool, Manchester, Liverpool, Leeds, Windermere, Coventry, London, Folkestone, and Bath.
I am absolutely in love with these cities.
They all have their uniqueness but also have that common English theme and there are a few other cities that I am planning to visit.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/campuses/cyprus:
In 2012 we were proud to become the first British university to open an overseas campus in Cyprus .
We’re located in Larnaka, on the southern coast of the island, where you’ll get to enjoy an impressive blend of modern facilities, an outdoor lifestyle and historic culture.
When you study with us in Cyprus you’ll graduate with a double degree (two certificates).
One from the University of Central Lancashire in the UK and one from the University of Central Lancashire in Cyprus.
On campus you’ll benefit from state-of-the-art lecture theatres equipped with the very latest audio-visual facilities, including tech for video conferencing and delivering presentations.
You’ll also love our library, computing facilities and study zones, with Wi-Fi available in all areas.
Our teaching and research facilities are second-to-none.
Our sports lab incorporates the latest technological advances in the fields of sports science, including testing and metrics equipment for use with athletes of all abilities, from beginner to professional level, including ergonomic tests overseen by accredited sport and exercise scientists.
We want our students and graduates to become innovators.
Our electronic engineering lab features cutting-edge equipment, computers and machinery, giving you hands-on experience in design, simulation, prototyping and testing.
We also have outstanding psychology laboratories, including a cognition and development Lab and child observation suite, enabling students to carry out psychological experiments and network with industry professionals.
We are the first university in Cyprus to have our own moot courtroom, which is used to train the next generation of law professionals.
It has been designed to reproduce not only the appearance and activities of a real courtroom, but also the courtrooms of the future, with counsel and judges able to portray their evidence, representations and remarks onto large projection screens.
That’s not all.
If you choose to live in our student accommodation, you’ll have access to an outdoor swimming pool.
If you are visiting the University campus in Pyla by car you should travel on the A3 towards Ayia Napa/ Paralimni and exit at either the first (Exit 5) or second exit (Exit 6) which directs you to Pyla.
Once you exit you will see signs every 500m directing you towards the University Campus.
Bus services are available from and to our Cyprus Campus every 30 to 60 minutes (depending on the time of day).
Bus number 424 travels from Larnaca to the campus and vice versa and this take place from Monday to Sunday.
Cyprus students are permitted a 50% discount on their Student Tickets.
It is compulsory to present your university Cyprus Student I.D.
card in order to be granted this discount.
Please find the bus route and the bus schedule in the links below.
Please note that the bus stop referred to as ‘UCLan Campus’ is University accommodation and the stop named ‘Pyla UCLan’ is the University bus stop which is located at the bottom of University Avenue (by the Sports Centre).
Moreover, as the route at some point is circular, please keep in mind that when you are travelling from the University to Larnaka you should look at the second time the bus passes by ‘Pyla UCLan’ (e.g.
11:35a.m.
and not 11:20a.m.).
For more information from the local bus service providers in Larnaka please visit their website .
Information on student bus tickets can be found on the following website .
The Intercity Buses are available from various stations in Larnaka however the most convenient bus stop used by students travelling with the Intercity Buses from Nicosia and Limassol is the one located on the Finikoudes sea front.
Students using the Intercity Bus Service must provide Student Support with their name and University I.D.
Card Number so that the Company can provide them with their own bus card.
The University confirmation letter and the University I.D.
Card are not accepted by the Intercity Bus Company as they need a completion date to be specified.
Intercity Bus Schedule .

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/campuses/london:
We understand that life can be complicated and the modern student needs an approach to education that fits into their busy life.
We are here to provide just that.
We offer a flexible timetable and a second-to-none supportive environment.
This allows you to achieve your educational goals without sacrificing your personal and professional commitments.
With our friendly and experienced student support team you can be reassured that we take your wellbeing seriously.
You'll be offered personalised support at every stage of your education journey.
This means you'll be able to make informed choices that help you to achieve your goals.
Our dedicated team are here to support you every step of the way, offering more choice and creating more possibilities to help you flourish.
Our goal is to ensure your success and empower you to achieve your aspirations.
University of Central Lancashire London is a partnership arrangement between the University of Central Lancashire and LCA Education Ltd.
LCA Education Ltd delivers courses in London for UK students on behalf of the University of Central Lancashire, leading to a University of Central Lancashire award.
Our partnership agreement with The University of Central Lancashire London enables LCA Education Ltd to deliver courses in London for UK students London and gain a University of Central Lancashire award.
Telephone: +44 (0)203 948 4440
Email: icentre@london.uclan.ac.uk
Postal address
University of Central Lancashire London, 6th Floor, Import Building, 2 Clove Crescent, London, E14 2BE

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/study/partners/institutions:
The University of Central Lancashire was the first in the sector to franchise higher education courses to Further Education Colleges with a view to widening access to higher education.
The network was established in 1985 and as such has celebrated over 30 years of partnership activity.
Our UK partnerships were originally based within the North West region, and whilst this remains the focus for the majority of the business, our number of partner institutions and the diversity of the partnership has grown in recent years.
To date, our university partnership is one of the largest networks in the country, in terms of the number of students and the number of partnerships.
We have links with 19 further education colleges and specialist training organisations who deliver a wide range of courses, allowing students to study locally for their higher education award.
All our partners meet the University’s high-quality standard and Quality Assurance Agency standards.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/schools:
Our University is made up of 10 academic schools.
Each school is supported by our professional services, who contribute to the effective running of the University.
We have a broad range of subjects and courses at foundation, undergraduate and postgraduate level.
Read about our history, mission and strategy, and view our academic calendar.
Discover more about working at one of England’s largest universities in the heart of the North West.
Find out more about working at UCLan and browse our latest job opportunities.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/people/vice-chancellors-group:
The Vice-Chancellor's Group, along with the Board of Governors, lead the University and are responsible for ensuring we fulfil our mission and values.
As a leadership team they have clear responsibilities to drive improvement and growth around our key objectives of student recruitment and experience, financial stability and continued focus on our people.
The Vice-Chancellor is the principal academic and administrative officer of the University and is responsible to the Chairman of the Governors.
As Vice-Chancellor, Graham is responsible for the leadership and management of the University within the principles laid down by the Board of Governors, of which he is an ex-officio member.
Graham is supported by the Vice-Chancellor's Group, which includes the Deputy Vice-Chancellor, the Chief Officers and the Pro Vice-Chancellors.
Graham is a Board member of Universities UK, a Non-Executive Director of East Lancashire Hospitals NHS Trust, Chair of Lancashire Innovation Board, Chair of the Maritime Skills Commission, Chair of MillionPlus and Chair of the University Vocational Awards Council.
Experience
Graham returned to the University after spending five years as the Vice-Chancellor of Solent University in Southampton.
During that time, the University opened an iconic learning and teaching building, a new indoor sports complex and industry-ready nursing and maritime simulation centres.
The University also rose significantly in all major league tables, recorded its highest ever results for student satisfaction, employability and progression and was awarded TEF Silver.
This culminated in being shortlisted for the University of the Year 2019 in the Times Higher Education Awards.
Before joining Solent University as Vice-Chancellor, Graham worked as Deputy Vice-Chancellor at the University of Central Lancashire.
He joined the Senior Management Team in 2003 and held posts as Dean of Academic Development and Director for Cumbria.
In 2007/08 Graham was seconded to work as the national skills research director for the Nuclear Decommissioning Authority at Sellafield Limited.
In March 2008 he took up the position of Pro Vice-Chancellor (Skills and Employer Engagement) and was appointed as Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic) from 1 January 2010 with overall responsibility for the University's academic and research activity.
Graham also worked closely with partner institutions, particularly in Hong Kong, China and the Middle East, and he received an Outstanding Foreign Expert Award from Hebei Province, China.
During 2014 he was also appointed as Honorary Professor at Hebei University in Baoding, and in 2015 was appointed as a Visiting Professor by the National Academy for Education Administration, Beijing.
Contact Details
Call the Vice Chancellor's Office Email the Vice Chancellor's Office
George joined us in February 2018 as Interim Deputy Finance Director (FP&A) and was recruited as Chief Finance Officer in December 2019.
He is responsible for strategic leadership over the University’s financial management ensuring its financial sustainability.
George has over 20 years’ experience of providing effective financial management in large, complex and multinational organisations.
Before joining the University, he was the Director of Finance (FP&A) at Ingeus, a leading global provider of employment and training services.
He then set up his own financial consultancy to provide commercial expertise to both private and public sector companies.
George is a graduate of Oxford Brookes University and is a member of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
Current responsibilities
Call George Charles Email George Charles
Executive Assistant
Email Denise Helm
The Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Operations) is a key role in the University’s Senior Leadership, supporting the Vice-Chancellor in the leadership, management and effective operation of the University.
Ruth’s portfolio responsibilities cover a range of professional services, and she has led the development of the new University Strategic Plan to enhance both the academic and business-related performance across the institution.
Ruth is Vice-President International and Academic Registrar.
Ruth took up the role as Deputy Chief Executive in November 2021 having previously held the position of Chief Marketing Officer.
Ruth is a key member of the University’s Vice-Chancellor’s Group supporting the Vice-Chancellor in the leadership, management and effective operation of the University.
Ruth’s portfolio responsibilities cover a wide range of professional services including Estates, Academic Registry, Learning and Information Services and External Relations.
She led the successful development of the University’s Strategic Plan which enhances the academic and business-related performance across the institution.
Ruth joined us in 2018 as Executive Director for Strategic Marketing before joining the Vice-Chancellor’s Group as Chief Marketing Officer in 2019.
Before joining us, Ruth was Chief Executive at Marketing Lancashire for six years, charged with enhancing the county’s national and international profile, showcasing its strengths as a thriving economic region and driving inward investment.
Before joining Marketing Lancashire Ruth was Managing Director at Shearings Leisure Group and Sales and Marketing Director at Gold Medal Travel Group.
An alumna of the University of Central Lancashire, Ruth was named as one of the Top 12 influential businesswomen in the North West by Insider Media and received the ‘Contribution to Lancashire’ Award at the Lancashire Business Awards.
Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Operations) Portfolio Responsibilities:
Contact details
Call Ruth Connor Email Ruth Connor
Call Katherine Axon Email Katherine Axon
Professor Janice Allan joined us as Pro Vice-Chancellor (Academic Leadership) in April 2024.
Prior to that, Janice served as the Dean of Salford Business School between 2019 and 2024 where she led on a significant expansion project, the development of a new vision and mission, and the embedding of a digital-first approach to education and the curricula.
Janice came to the Business School having served several years as Associate Dean for Assurance and Enhancement in Salford’s School of Arts, Media and Creative Technology.
Janice was educated in Canada, having gained her Bachelor’s and Master’s degrees in Comparative Literature at the University of Alberta and her PhD in English at McMaster University.
Her research interests span Victorian literature and culture, crime writing, and constructions of gender.
She sits on the editorial board of Clues: a Journal of Detection and is the joint editor of both The Cambridge Companion to Sherlock Holmes (2019, with Christopher Pittard) and The Routledge Companion to Crime Fiction (2020, with Guiddal, King, and Pepper), which won the 2021 International Crime Fiction Association Book Prize awarded for ingenuity, innovation, and scholarship in the academic study of crime fiction.
She is currently editing the Oxford World Classics edition of Conan Doyle’s The Case-Book of Sherlock Holmes .
Current Responsibilities
Pro Vice-Chancellor (Academic Leadership) Call Professor Janice Allan Email Professor Janice Allan
Executive Assistant Call Hannah Ruscoe Email Hannah Ruscoe
Professor Crean was appointed as Pro Vice-Chancellor Research and Enterprise in December 2019, having been Pro Vice-Chancellor for Clinical, Health and Research since July 2017.
He previously served us in a number of senior academic roles including Executive Dean of the Faculty of Clinical and Biomedical Sciences, Director of Dental Research and Knowledge Transfer, and Dean of the School of Postgraduate Medical and Dental Education.
In his current role, Professor Crean is responsible for building productive networks and relationships with key stakeholders to ensure the University increases its activity in Research and Enterprise, directing the themes of those activities towards the local, regional and global strategies.
StJohn gained a Bachelor’s degree in Dental Surgery (BDS) from University College London in 1981 before attaining an MB BS (Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery) from University College London School of Medicine in 1992.
He gained a PhD from the UCL in 2000, a Postgraduate Certificate in Medical Education from the University of Cambridge, and has been awarded LLM (Medical Ethics and Law) with the University of Edinburgh.
Beyond the University, StJohn is an Honorary Consultant at East Lancashire Hospital Trust and the University of Morecambe Bay Hospitals Foundation Trust.
He is currently the Robert Bradlaw advisor in the Faculty of Dental Surgery at the Royal College of Surgeons of England, and Editor-in-Chief of the Faculty Dental Journal (FDJ).
He has held the posts of President of the North West Branch of the British Dental Association and Chairman of the Fylde Section and is also a Non-Executive Director of the Board at LTHTR.
His ongoing research interests include the safe management of medicalised patients in dentistry and the role of oral bacteria in systemic disease, with a focus on neurodegenerative conditions such as Alzheimer’s disease.
He has over 120 peer-reviewed publications and receives regular invitations to speak to learned societies and conferences.
Pro Vice-Chancellor (Research and Enterprise)
Call StJohn Crean Email StJohn Crean
Call Evgeniya Govedarova Email Evgeniya Govedarova
Professor Andrew Ireland is the Pro Vice-Chancellor (Students and Teaching), providing strategic leadership across the organisation in the areas of student experience, teaching excellence, curriculum design, student support services and academic quality assurance.
He sponsors a substantial cross-institutional transformative programme determining the ‘University of the Future’, with a focus on curriculum delivery.
In addition, he is the Head of our Burnley Campus in East Lancashire, providing strategic leadership to realise the full potential of our presence in the region.
Andrew joined the University in September 2013 as the Dean of the School of Journalism and Communication.
In 2014, he was appointed to the position of Executive Dean as the University restructured into Faculties.
He then led the Faculty of Culture and the Creative Industries for four years; in that time it won the Times Higher Education Award for Excellence and Innovation in the Arts and Professor Lubaina Himid CBE won the prestigious Turner Prize among other highlights.
In March 2018, Andrew was promoted to a new Pro Vice-Chancellor role to provide strategic cross-institutional leadership and vision for the digital and creative industries, overseeing the Faculty of Culture and the Creative Industries and the Faculty of Science and Technology.
In November 2019, Andrew took up his current role as Pro Vice-Chancellor (Students and Teaching).
In August 2025 his portfolio expanded to include leadership of our Burnley Campus.
Prior to working at the University, Andrew worked in the broadcast industry and held a number of academic posts in television production before moving into academic management in the Media School at Bournemouth University.
In 2004, he became a National Teaching Fellow in the “Rising Stars” category for his HEFCE-funded work in group work assessment in media practice.
His research interests include broadcast historiography and re-enactment techniques.
Andrew graduated from Bournemouth University with an Honours degree in Media Production.
He achieved a SEDA accredited PG Cert in Professional Development and was awarded a PhD in 2012 entitled Conditions of Time and Space: A Re-enactment Experiment with the British TV Series Doctor Who.
Pro Vice-Chancellor (Students and Teaching)
Call Professor Andrew Ireland Email Professor Andrew Ireland
Call Alison Wolstenholme Email Alison Wolstenholme
Ken joined us in August 2016.
He is responsible for ensuring that we offer a professional, flexible and innovative Human Resources function with responsibility for staff recruitment, administration, engagement and development.
Ken’s role involves driving the organisational development and culture change to underpin the realisation of the University Strategy.
Ken, who originally hails from Burnley, was HR Director of BBC North from 2008-2016.
He oversaw the corporation’s HR agenda during and after the £200m implementation of the new BBC North organisation including the migration of staff to the Media City location and the development of a new creative and collaborative culture.
Prior to this, he held senior Human Resources and Organisational Development roles at British Aerospace, Halifax and HBOS.
Ken graduated from the University of Oxford with a First Class Honours Degree in Jurisprudence (Law and Philosophy).
Chief People Officer
Call Ken Lee Email Ken Lee
Call Cath Kilmartin Email Cath Kilmartin

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/study/partner-student-progression:
Are you currently studying at a UK partner institution?
You may wish to study with us at our main campuses to finish your programme of study or complete a higher qualification.
Every year, numerous students from our partner institutions decide to top up their qualifications to an undergraduate level or pursue postgraduate studies with us.
You could be one of them.
View our available top-up courses by checking out the partner student undergraduate top up guide .
Here you can search for your current course and view the top-up options linked to your Foundation Degree, HND/HNC, or Dip HE.
If there is a route which isn’t listed, or you have any questions, please email our Partnership Enquiries Team .
Complete the form electronically.
You can make up to three choices in order of your preference.
Please submit your application as soon as possible before the end of the academic year.
Please note, if you are moving on in your partner institution, a different form may be used.​
A letter or email will be sent to inform you of the University’s decision and to update you on the terms and conditions.
An offer will only be made on one of your three choices.
​
Please note, the University will not acknowledge receipt of your moving on application form, but you may contact us to check the progress of it.
You will need to accept your offer of a place with the University.
If you've accepted your place on the course, we will write to you once we have confirmed your final results.
Once we have confirmed your final results, and you are happy with your decision, you can enrol with us.
Students enrolled in programs without a direct top-up route at the Partner institution will receive an automatic offer to advance their qualification to the undergraduate level with us.
This offer will be sent around December via email or post, depending on your communication preferences, and will propose the most relevant top-up course related to your field of study.
However, if you prefer a different course, this can easily be changed.
For certain courses there are direct offer routes available.
If this is applicable you will receive notification from us.
A small number of courses require a UCAS application.
In these rare cases, please visit the UCAS website.
UK Partner students who wish to progress from a level 5 qualification at a UCLan UK partner to a level 6 qualification at a UCLan campus will be eligible for a £250 Partnership Progression Travel Bursary.
This bursary will be available from September 2025.
For more information including eligibility and how to apply, please visit our scholarships and bursaries page .
Our award holders studying a postgraduate taught course or postgraduate research degree (full or part-time) may be eligible for a 20% tuition fee discount if paying a standard or higher tuition fee.
Please note that this discount is for postgraduate courses run at UCLan Campuses.
This excludes courses run at our Partner Colleges/Institutions.
For more information, visit our scholarships and bursaries page .
Find your course below then follow our top up steps to apply.
Course title
Top-up course
Top-up location details
Top-up location options
Agriculture, FdSc
Agriculture, BSc (Hons)
Myerscough College
Partner only
Agricultural Livestock Science, BSc (Hons) Top-up
Animal Science and Welfare (Health Care Management), FdSc
Animal Science and Behaviour, BSc (Hons) Top-up
Animal Science and Welfare (Zoo Conservation), FdSc
Animal Science and Conservation, BSc (Hons) Top-up
Animals and Horticulture as Therapy, FdSc
Animal and Horticulture as Therapy, BSc (Hons) Top-up
Arboriculture and Tree Management, FdSc
Arboriculture and Urban Forestry, BSc (Hons)
Basketball Coaching and Performance, FdSc
Sports Coaching and Performance, BSc (Hons)
Preston Campus
UCLan only
Business and Management, FdA
Business and Management, BA (Hons)
Preston and Burnley Campus, Hugh Baird College, Wigan & Leigh College
Partner and UCLan
Business Administration, BA (Hons) Top-up
Preston and Burnley Campus
Children, Young People and their Service, FdA
Children Schools and Families (Graduate Practitioner), BA (Hons) Top-up
Preston and Burnley Campus, Kendal College, Hugh Baird College,
Partner and campus
Clinical Veterinary Nursing, DipHE
Please speak directly with our Course Enquiries Team to discuss your options.
Competition Motorcycle Technology, FdSc
Competition Motorcycle Technology, BSc (Hons) Top-up
Computing, FdSc
Computing, BSc (Hons)
Preston Campus, Furness College, Wigan & Leigh College
Creative Industries, FdA
Creative Practitioner, BA (Hons) Top-up
Wigan & Leigh College
Creative Make-Up Design and Practice, FdA
Creative Make-Up Design and Practice, BA (Hons) Top-up
Hugh Baird College
Cricket Coaching and Performance, FdSc
Sports Coaching and Development, BA (Hons)
Criminology and Criminal Justice, FdA
Criminology and Criminal Justice, BA (Hons)
Preston Campus and Oldham
Criminology, FdA
Criminology, BA (Hons) Top-up
Criminology and Sociology, FdA
Digital Imaging and Photography, FdA
Digital Imaging and Photography, BA (Hons) Top-up
Photography, BA (Hons)
Preston Campus (audition, interview, or portfolio will be required)
Ecology and Conservation Management, FdSc
Ecology and Sustainable Land Management, BSc (Hons) Top-up
Engineering (Advanced Manufacturing), FdSc
Equine Science and Management, FdSc
Equine Science and Management, BA (Hons)
Equine Science, BSc (Hons)
Farriery, DipHE
Farriery, BSc (Hons) Top-up
Fashion and Textile, FdA
Fashion and Textiles, BA (Hons) Top-up
Textile Design, BA (Hons)
Fashion Design, BA (Hons)
Football Coaching and Performance, FdSc
Football Coaching and Performance, BSc (Hons)
Furniture Design and Make, HNC
Please speak directly with our Course Enquiries Team to discuss for your options.
Furniture Design and Make, HND
Games Design, FdA
Games Design, BA (Hons)
Game Art and Concept Design, BA (Hons)
Oldham College
Futureworks
Golf Coaching and Performance, FdSc
Golf Coaching and Performance, BSc (Hons)
Golf Management, FdA
Golf Management, BSc (Hons)
Graphic Design, FdA
Graphic Design, BA (Hons) Top-up
Graphic Design, BA (Hons)
Health & Social Care (Social Care), FdA
Health and Social Care, BSc (Hons) Top-up
Preston Campus, Furness College, Hugh Baird College, Oldham College
Health & Social Care (Mental Health), FdA
Health & Social Care, FdA
Health, Nutrition and Physical Activity, FdSc
Nutrition and Exercise Sciences, BSc (Hons)
Horticulture and Applied Sciences, FdSc
Horticultural Science and Management, BSc (Hons) Top-up
Interior and Spatial Design, FdA
Interior and Spatial Design, BA (Hons) Top-up
Interior Design, BA (Hons)
Media Production, FdA
Media and Television Production, BA (Hons)
Mental Health and Wellbeing, FdA
Motorsport Competition Car Technology, FdSc
Motorsport Competition Car Technology, BA (Hons) Top-up
Motorsports Management and Logistics, FdSc
Motorsports Management and Logistics, BA (Hons) Top-up
Moving Image Production, FdA
Media and Television Production, BSc (Hons)
Preston Campus, Hugh Baird College
Filmmaking, BA (Hons)
Person Centred Counselling & Psychotherapy, FdSc
Person Centred Counselling & Psychotherapy, BSc (Hons)
Preston College
Professional Floristry and Floral Design, FdA
Professional Floristry and Floral Design, BA (Hons)
Rugby Coaching and Performance, FdSc
Sportsturf Management, FdSc
Sportsturf Science and Management, BSc (Hons)
Strength and Conditioning, FdSc
Sport and Exercise Science, BSc (Hons)
Theatre and Performance, FdA
Community Theatre and Performance, BA (Hons)
Burnley College
Tourism and Hospitality Management, FdA
Management in Events, BA (Hons) Top-up
Management in Hospitality, BA (Hons) Top-up
Management in Tourism, BA (Hons) Top-up
Turfgrass and Applied Turfgrass Science, FDSc
Turfgrass Science and Management, BSc (Hons)
Veterinary Nursing, FdSc
Visual Merchandising and Promotional Design, FdA
Visual Merchandising and Promotional Design, BA (Hons) Top-up
Important information
This guide was correct at the time of publishing in November 2024.
However, courses and routes can still change throughout the year.
Please note that some top up routes may be subject to conditions, such as a minimum mark on your current course.
Please see the programme specification or speak to your tutor for further information.
Courses listed in the top up guide may run full-time, part-time or both.
Please check with the relevant course page or partner intuition for the mode of study.
Some top up options will need an audition, interview, or portfolio.
Some courses might also be subject to GCSE requirements, requirements from regulatory bodies, occupational health check and DBS check.
If you are progressing to a partner institution it is vital you check their website for any specific requirements.
If you wish to study at Postgraduate level with us you can learn more about your options, the benefits and how to apply on our Postgraduate Study page .
Find out more about why you belong at The University of Central Lancashire – with insight from our current students.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/welcome/partners:
At the University of Lancashire, we have been welcoming partner students for more than 30 years.
On this page you'll find a variety of information that will help you to make the most of your time studying with us.
From information on how to register and enrol, through to Welcome Week and the support available to you throughout your studies.
Please note that you are required to enrol at both your college/institution and the University of Lancashire.
All students need to complete the registration process.
You’ll receive an email from us containing your student details: username, University email address, and guidance on how to create your password.
You can then use your student account details to log onto the University network.
Firstly, you’ll need to enrol and then show a valid form of identification (such as a passport or driving licence) at your institution.
Then, go to our UK partner enrolment pages to check what you need to do to enrol with the university.
This is a dedicated enrolment webpage for partner students which explains each step of the process so you can ensure you have fully completed what is required.
If you don’t fully complete the registration process, then you won’t become an official university student and you may not be paid any student finance you were expecting or be eligible for your award.
With your student account details you can:
To access any University facilities on the Preston Campus you’ll need a valid student card.
You need to apply for your card online and upload a digital, passport-style photo.
You’ll need your student registration number, which is a letter (normally a G) followed by an eight digit number.
Your student card will be posted out to your institution as soon as your student record has been activated.
If you have any questions about how to obtain your student card please contact the Library and Information Service on 01772 895355 .
We want you to make the most of your time as a partner student, which is why The UK Partnerships Team organise a variety of activities that run alongside our welcome week and throughout September.
These aim to provide you with information about studying at the University of Lancashire and the resources available for you.
What you will take part in depends on what your Partner institution has booked, but activities and events include:
You can access our library induction on the Student Hub .
You will need your student login to access this.
As well as having access to the library at your partner institution, you’re also entitled to full membership of the library at our Preston Campus.
The library is open 24/7 during term time.
View full information about our library resources and facilities .
You can arrange to have books delivered from the Preston Campus library to your own library or home address.
If you’re a student at a further education college this is done through the VALNOW service, and books will get sent out to your college library.
If you’re not based in a college then this is done through the online learning service and books will get sent out to an address of your choice.
For more details:
Visit our library webpage or, email the Library Team .
You may receive important messages from the library or other parts of the University to your University email address.
Access your emails here .
You can set up an auto-forward to your college or home address if you prefer.
For information about any of the resources or services mentioned above, please contact our LIS Customer Services Team .
As soon as you enrol onto a course at the University of Lancashire, you’re automatically a member of University of Lancashire Students’ Union.
It doesn’t matter if you’re not based at the Preston Campus, because you’re still a part of your Union.
We’re a not-for-profit organisation which is run independently from the University and we exist to make life better for students and we will always put students at the heart of the Union.
The core focus of our work is to represent and empower students as well as be there to support you every step of your student journey.
Our Advice Service is a free, confidential, independent and experienced service available to students, providing advice on academic issues such as Academic Appeals, Mitigating Circumstances, Fitness to Practice, Academic Misconduct and complaints.
Our representation team can provide training and support if you decide to become a Course Rep.
To find out more visit the Students' Union website .
University of Lancashire partner students have their awards accredited by the University of Lancashire, and due to this all work completed is governed by the University regulations and assessments.
Read all the relevant regulations and policies .
As well as visiting the careers team at your institution, you have free use of the University’s CareerEDGE system for quick and easy access to online careers resource’s development tools and industry reports.
You can find more information on our careers webpages .
You can also contact the Careers Team by email or telephone 01772 895858 .
Once you graduate, you’re entitled to join the University’s Alumni Network.
The network provides continued access to CareerEDGE resources, business start-up support and advice for two years after graduation, and keeps you up to date with the latest University news.
As one of our alumni, you’ll be part of a global family of around 200,000 people.
To join the Alumni Network after you graduate you need to opt in.
Go to our alumni page and click on the ‘join us’ link or telephone 01772 892344 .
Many of the University courses run by our UK Partners provide opportunities to top up your qualification at the University of Lancashire, or to study for a higher qualification, subject to meeting the entry criteria.
Further information can be found on our progression webpage.
UK Partner students who wish to progress from a level 5 qualification at a UCLan UK partner to a level 6 qualification at a University of Lancashire campus will be eligible for a £250 Partnership Progression Travel Bursary.
This bursary will be available from September 2025, for more information including eligibility and how to apply, please visit the bursaries webpage.
As a graduate from a Partner College you are entitled to 20% Alumni Discount on postgraduate degrees at one of our campuses (Preston, Burnley or Westlakes).
The University of Lancashire is in Preston.
You can find details on how to find us on our Preston Campus webpage .
Your student card will give you access to certain buildings on campus such as the library.
Preston is a lively and modern multicultural city based in North West England.
You’ll find shops, places to eat and drink, culture and green spaces to explore within this dynamic student city.
Want to find out more about the city of Preston?
Explore our life in Preston page.
We have a multi-faith and spirituality centre located on campus which welcomes and provides support to those of all faiths.
Facilities at Oasis
Discover more about the Oasis Faith and Spirituality Centre .
Many of the University courses run by our UK Partners provide opportunities to move on to the University of Lancashire to complete your programme of study.
You may also wish to study for a higher qualification if you meet the entry criteria.
For more information and to provide feedback for this page or any aspect of your visit please contact the UK Partnership Team.
Tel: 01772 894417
Email: the Partner Enquiries Team
Our partners
Registration and enrolment
LIS customer support
Telephone: 01772 895355 Email: LIS Customer Services
Telephone: 01772 893000 Email: SU Information
Careers advice
Telephone: 01772 895858 Email: the Careers Team
Keep up to date with the latest news, developments, and content via our social media channels.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/welcome/partners/enrolment:
All students are required to fully enrol.
For the University of Central Lancashire UK partner students, the enrolment process depends on your institution.
The deadline for September enrolment is Sunday 6th October 2024 .
If your course offers entry onto cohorts throughout the academic year, then please see your specific Partner page for enrolment information.
Please select your institution from the alphabetical list below.
If you don’t complete the registration process then you won’t become an official university student.
This means you may not get paid any student finance you were expecting or be eligible for your award.
All students need to complete the enrolment process.
New students
For students from validated UK partners, UCLan has simplified the enrolment process.
See a full list of validated UK partners below.
Your institution will send across your initial details, which UCLan will upload into the student record system.
Once uploaded, you'll need to complete the following steps:
Returning students
Returning partner students joining the next year of their programme are automatically re-enrolled by their institution and UCLan, provided that they have met the requirements for progression.
Useful contacts and links
I've not received a validation email request.
I've not received my username or password.
Having issues and not sure who to contact?
Email our Partnership Enquiries Team .
Please include your name, student number (if known), partner institution and what you need help with.
You need to enrol with both your college/institution and with UCLan.
You will need to do this each year.
Your institution will send across your initial details, which UCLan will upload into the student record systems.
You are required to enrol every academic year you study on a UCLan degree at a partner college.
In future years you will just receive an email to your UCLan account prompting you to enrol.
View full details for course enrolment.
I'm unable to upload my photo.
I'm cannot complete online enrolment.
For partner students from Burnley College, your enrolment depends on the course you are going to be studying.
Please select your programme from the list below to view the enrolment process.
Course Title
Mode of study
Community Theatre & Performance (Top Up), BA (Hons)
Criminology & Sociology, BA (Hons)
Furniture Design & Make, HNC/HND

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/study/partners/institutions/collaborative-partnerships:
We have worked in partnership with further education colleges since 1985.
Our network continues to develop and diversify.
UK Partnerships sits within UK Recruitment and Partnerships, within the External Relations Service at the University.
We believe in helping people to seize every opportunity to flourish in education, at work and for life.
We currently have active partnerships with 19 UK partner organisations.
This includes 13 further education colleges and six private training providers.
We have in the region of 4000 students on approximately 180 courses.
We're committed to working collaboratively with partners to provide equal opportunities for all.
We want to ensure everyone with the potential to benefit from higher education can participate and succeed.
So all students can find a course and an institution that meets their potential, needs and ambitions for employment and further study.
Benefits to Partners
Benefits to students
We welcome expressions of interest for UK collaborative provision.
We're open to developing new Partnerships of scale, particularly outside of our region of Lancashire.
The first step in this process is to complete the enquiry form below outlining your institution’s proposal.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/legal/student-policies/taught-courses:
The University of Central Lancashire’s general policies, handbooks and regulations aim to provide students with a safe and supportive environment in which to study.
It is important that as a student, you know that these policies exist and their relevance to you as a UCLan student.
There is a summary of all student policies available for information.
Please note that student policies and regulations are applicable to your current year of enrolment.
If you require a policy in Braille, or a format that works with a specific screen reader, please email the Inclusive Support Team .
Potential applicants should be aware that a number of the policies listed below are currently under review in light of newly introduced regulatory requirements from the Office for Students.
It is anticipated that they will be republished before 31 October 2025.
Once republished a summary document will be included on this page summarising changes made.
The affected policies are listed below and marked with an asterisk * further down this page.
Any offer of a place made to you by the University is on the basis that in accepting such an offer you agree to the terms and conditions, which form part of the contract between you and the University.
The University Student Handbook contains information that we hope you will find useful and that will contribute towards the success of your study.
It is intended to be read in conjunction with the information contained on this page and Academic Regulations as it forms part of your student contract.
Each year the University sets its annual tuition fee levels, discounts, terms and conditions for all students who enrol with the University.
These fees fall into different categories based on residency and course type.
Summary documents
Students Terms and Conditions
University Student Handbook
It is intended to be read in conjunction with the information contained on this page and Academic Regulations as it forms part of your student contract
Tuition fees
Regulations and policies
General policies
Library, IT and facilities
Student Terms and Conditions
*These Academic Regulations only apply to students enrolled on a Professional Doctorate course and cover both taught and research stages of the course.
Accompanying information and conditions of offer
* These Academic Regulations only apply to students enrolled on a Professional Doctorate course and cover both taught and research stages of the course.
Course handbooks
Each course has its own handbook which contains information that we hope you will find useful and that will contribute towards the success of your study.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/legal/student-policies/research:
Research-specific policies
*These Academic Regulations only apply to students enrolled on a Professional Doctorate course and cover both Taught and Research stages of the course.
* These Academic Regulations only apply to students enrolled on a Professional Doctorate course and cover both Taught and Research stages of the course.
Summary of policies
Each year UCLan sets its annual tuition fee levels, discounts, terms and conditions for all students who enrol with the University.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/legal/safeguarding:
If you have a concern, pass it on.
Contact our Safeguarding Leads.
We recognise the importance of health and wellbeing in relation to an individual's academic and university experience.
We aim to create an environment in which all members of our community, including those under the age of 18 and adults at risk, are safe from harm.
This includes all forms of prejudice, harassment, discrimination, and bullying.
This approach is central to our values:
We know that we all have a responsibility to provide a safe physical and online environment and culture in which everyone can thrive.
We embed this approach into our daily practice, training, policies, and procedures.
In an emergency where any person is at risk of immediate harm call 999.
Then report to one of our Operational/Principal Safeguarding and Prevent Safeguarding Leads by calling +44 (0) 1772 893020 .
For out of hours concerns, the security team are available 24 hours a day on +44 (0) 1772 892068 .
UCLan colleagues can also view key contact details on the intranet .
For students, apprentices and colleagues, the Safezone App is available to download and can be used to access support and assistance.
Safeguarding is about protecting children, young people (under 18) and adults at risk from harm.
It's ensuring they get safe, timely and effective support.
In the context of UCLan, this usually means providing a safe environment for individuals to study, visit and take part in activities.
We also have a responsibility to act where we become aware that a child, young person or an adult at risk is at risk outside of the university.
Everyone using our facilities or engaged in UCLan facilitated activities has an equal right to protection.
This is from all types of harm or abuse and regardless of:
Everyone has a responsibility to report a safeguarding concern and we all need to maintain an attitude of ‘it could happen here’.
This includes staff, students, apprentices, visitors, volunteers, agency staff and contractors.
It relates to any activity organised and/or delivered by UCLan representatives, regardless of where it takes place.
External groups and organisations running activities on our campuses need to do so in accordance with approved risk assessments and associated safeguarding policies.
To prevent harm and promote student and learner welfare, support is available through several sources.
If you are a current student, you can find out more about the support available by visiting our Student Hub .
Where harm has already occurred, safeguarding is about preventing further harm and offering appropriate support.
This may be provided by the university and external services.
Safeguarding children
Safeguarding and promoting the welfare of children includes everyone under 18.
In defining our approach we draw on the definition used by the Department for Education (DfE) in Keeping Children Safe in Education :
Safeguarding adults at risk
The Care Act 2014 defines an adult at risk as someone over 18 years of age who:
Any adult can suffer neglect or be subjected to abuse.
There are many factors which can increase an individual’s vulnerability.
Indicators of possible vulnerability include:
An adult at risk may be receiving support services from the local authority, the NHS or a non-statutory agency, however this may not always be the case.
For safeguarding queries, support or advice, you can email our Operational/Principal Safeguarding and Prevent Leads .
Alternatively, please call +44 (0) 1772 893020 .
If you have a safeguarding concern and would like to make a referral, please complete the safeguarding referral form providing as much detail as possible.
Our Safeguarding Leads are here to offer support and advice, with staff based at each of our campuses.
Out of normal working hours, please see ' what to do in a safeguarding emergency ' in the above section.
Any member of the UCLan community can report a concern using Report + Support .
Your Students’ Union Advice Centre
The Students’ Union Advice Centre is a third-party reporting centre for hate crime and incidents.
Trained advisors are able to support students and apprentices in reporting any hate crimes or incidents.
This also includes any form of online harassment.
Information for colleagues
Colleagues can report their concerns to the designated safeguarding lead(s) for their school or service.
The emergency wellbeing flowchart on the intranet provides an overview of what to do should you have a safeguarding concern.
This includes key contacts details.
Any colleague wishing to access support should speak with their line manager or contact the People Team.
Accessing support for students and apprentices
Mental health, wellbeing and inclusive support is available to all students and apprentices.
Details about what support is available and how to access it is below:
Please see our privacy notice for information on how personal information is used to provide student support.
Early help is key to safeguarding children, young people and adults at risk.
As such, we need everyone to maintain an attitude of ‘it could happen here’ in relation to safeguarding concerns.
Notice, check and share
You may notice a concern, for example, a change in behaviour, appearance, academic engagement or performance.
Or a student, apprentice or colleague may disclose something to you.
It is important that we check this out, listen and share our concerns through the proper channels.
Please visit our webpages to find out more information about the signs of harm and abuse .
Exhibiting any of these signs, symptoms and behaviours does not always mean there are safeguarding concerns.
We ask that concerns are checked out and passed onto a safeguarding lead where appropriate.
Safeguarding disclosures can be made at any time, to anyone.
Knowing how to respond to these disclosures is important to ensure that appropriate support is put in place for the child, young person or adult at risk.
If a child, young person or adult at risk says or indicates that there is a possible safeguarding concern, or a member of staff receives information suggesting there may be a safeguarding concern, please follow these steps:
Where the child, young person or adult at risk has made a disclosure, a verbatim record of their account of what occurred in their own words should be recorded.
It should include details of the nature of the allegation or concern, a description of any injury, times, dates, places, and any other details.
You must not remove clothing to inspect any injuries or take photographs.
Do not worry if you feel you have missed something.
Tell the Principal Safeguarding Leads who will pick up further questions and actions.
We understand that responding to safeguarding concerns can impact on an individual’s wellbeing.
It is important to look after ourselves.
As such, details of support for students and apprentices is available on the Student Hub .
Details of the support available to colleagues is on the supporting colleagues webpages on the intranet .
Our safeguarding and Prevent policy and procedure outlines our approach, alongside other internal policies, procedures and guidance:
The following policies can be accessed on the student policies webpage :
All colleagues will be aware of systems which support safeguarding and how to recognise and respond appropriately to safeguarding concerns.
All colleagues are required to undertake Safeguarding Essentials online training, renewing every year.
Find out more about the specific roles and responsibilities for safeguarding at UCLan .
Are you concerned about a student or an apprentice?
Have you noticed a change in behaviour?
Have you noticed a change in behaviour, perspective or opinion that may cause concern?
Have they stopped engaging with their studies, or have they become withdrawn or isolated?
Are they experiencing bullying or harassment?
Or perhaps someone has told you something that could constitute abuse, harm or vulnerability to radicalisation?
Consider the following:
Don't ignore your concerns.
Check if others share them, but do not investigate.
Seek clarity and consider the following:
If there is immediate concern, call 999.
Then report to one of our safeguarding leads by calling +44 (0) 1772 893020 .
For out of hours concerns, the security team are available 24 hours a day on +44 (0) 1772 892068 .
For students, apprentices and staff, the Safezone App is available to download to access support and assistance.
Share your concerns by passing the information on to one of our Operational/Principal Safeguarding Leads
Report any genuine concerns as soon as possible.
You should never investigate yourself.
Have you carried out the appropriate checks?
Share your concerns by passing the information to our Operational/Principal Safeguarding Leads.
Share your concerns in full, including:
Also share if there have been any similar or historical concerns you are aware of.
The Operational/Principal Safeguarding Leads will determine next steps.
They will organise external referrals, as appropriate.
Or, please call +44 (0) 1772 893020 .
Your online safety is extremely important to us.
While technology undoubtedly brings so many benefits, there are risks that we all need to be aware of as well.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/legal/student-policies/providing-value:
At the University of Central Lancashire, the governing body ensures that there are adequate and effective arrangements in place to provide transparency about value for money for students and for taxpayers.
We are in a strong position to add value to the fees that students pay – not just for their tuition, but for their whole experience of being at a large civic university in a small, safe city.
We create positive change in their lives and in their working and living environment.
We take great pride in our role as a economic anchor in the region.
Our students and graduates support the sustained impact and value the University offers as a significant driver of economic, cultural and social development, offering value for money back to the taxpayer as well as to the student.
As one of the largest employers in Preston, we provide many work opportunities for our students and our local community.
The University’s Vision is to “transform lives by delivering an outstanding educational experience, creating prosperity and opportunity in the communities we serve.” We believe that this vision creates value for students in the following ways:
In 2022/23, the University invested heavily in the student experience, developing new capital investments around improving the student journey from application to graduation, developing the University’s sports offer and preparing for the launch of a new School of Veterinary Medicine.
This is the first such facility in Lancashire and only the second in the North of England.
The following information sets out how the University finances work, where our income comes from, what we spend our money on and shows how a typical undergraduate student fee is used.
More than two thirds of our income is from student fees (including UK, International, undergraduate and postgraduate students) and education contracts.
Around 14% of our income is from funding body grants – this comes predominantly from the Office for Students, the Education & Skills Funding Agency and from Research England.
The remainder of our income comes from a variety of sources including research grants, investments, accommodation and commercial activities.
Our total income for the year 2022/23 was just under £292m and came from the following sources:
All of our income is spent on the University to deliver teaching and learning, undertake research, deliver support services and to provide teaching, learning and research spaces, as well as recreational space for our students.
Over the last 5 years we have increasingly invested in the things we know matter to our students: the academic experience; support services; accommodation; and research that delivers real-world impact.
Some examples of these investments are:
Our total expenditure for the year 2022/23 was just over £297m, which was spent in the following ways:
A typical undergraduate student fee (currently £9,250 per year) is spent in the following ways:
Value for money is defined as the most advantageous combination of cost, quality and sustainability to meet student and stakeholder requirements.
Enhancement of the service or experience.
The formal structures and processes within the University for decision-making.
The work that the University does with stakeholders outside of the University as well as engaging with prospective new students.
Through our investments in technology and infrastructure we were able to move our entire academic provision online in a matter of days.
Amounts not covered elsewhere in the expenditure analysis.
Other funding received outside of the categories shown, such as apprenticeship funding.
Can be described as the day-to-day costs incurred in running the campus, such as electricity, gas, water, cleaning, maintenance.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/about-us/student-charter:
To help our students achieve and succeed, we need to work in unity, in a partnership between the University, our students, and the Students’ Union.
We all have a role to play.
To help, we have created this Student Charter to set out expectations for all of us.
Our mission is to help people to seize every opportunity to flourish in education, at work and for life.
Whatever your goal, together we can make it happen.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/legal/complaints:
We are committed to providing high quality education and other services to our students, colleagues and stakeholders.
Our aim is to provide a supportive environment including academic, welfare and recreational services and to be responsive to concerns when they are raised.
Please view our admissions policy and applicant complaints procedure for further information and guidance.
Feedback from students is welcomed as part of the University’s approach to the development and enhancement of the quality of its services.
There are many local routes whereby concerns and issues can be raised and addressed, and you are encouraged to make full use of these routes.
In particular, you should ensure that you are familiar with the quality assurance procedures that exist within academic schools and are described within Student Handbooks.
The University does, however, recognise that there may be occasions when you have cause for complaint about the service you have received.
In this instance please review our student complaints procedure for further information and guidance.
We're committed to providing high quality services to our employer partners.
Our aim is to provide a supportive partnership and to be responsive to concerns when they are raised.
Feedback from employers is welcomed as part of the University’s approach to the development and enhancement of the quality of our services.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/legal/data-protection:
The University complies with the General Data Protection Regulation (UK GDPR) and the Data Protection Act 2018 whenever it processes personal data.
The University’s Information Governance Manager & Data Protection Officer advises the University how to comply with data protection legislation and manages and coordinates requests made under the UK GDPR and associated legislation.
You can contact the Information Governance Manager & Data Protection Officer at:
Information Governance Manager & Data Protection Officer Legal and Governance Harris Building University of Central Lancashire Preston Lancashire PR1 2HE
Email: DPFOIA Telephone: +44 (0)1772 892561
The Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO) is the lead supervisory authority for UK GDPR purposes for the University and its subsidiaries.
The University is registered with the ICO as a data controller and our registration number is Z5512420.
You can see the general purposes for which we process personal data in our register entry which is publicly available on the ICO’s website.
Data protection legislation gives individuals the right to ask any organisation that processes personal data about them for a copy of that information.
You are entitled to see personal data that are held electronically as well as those held in most manual records.
These types of requests are called Subject Access Requests (SAR) .
You can make a SAR by writing to the Information Governance Manager.
Our Information Governance Manager is the designated Data Protection Officer and deals with all matters relating to data protection legislation and the Freedom of Information Act 2000, as well as managing and coordinating requests for information received by the University.
You can contact the Information Governance Manager at:
Information Governance Manager Office of the University Secretary and Legal Officer Harris Building University of Central Lancashire Preston Lancashire PR1 2HE
Subject Access Request Form
Wherever possible you should use a Subject Access Request Form as this has been designed to help you provide us with the information we need to deal with your SAR quickly.
For further information, download our guidance notes .
If you cannot complete the form you can still make a SAR by emailing or writing to us, but we may need to ask you for further information to help us find your personal data.
No, we will handle your request free of charge.
We need two pieces of evidence to prove your identity such as a recent utility or council tax bill, your driving licence or other similar items which include your name and address.
This is so we can ensure your personal data remain secure and are only sent to you.
You should send us copies of these, rather than original documents.
You should also provide us with as much detail as you can about the information you want to access so we can locate it quickly.
If we need to contact you for further information to help us find the personal data you requested you may have to wait longer for a response.
We will normally respond in the same method as the request was received, i.e.
we will post our response to you if it was received by mail, or will email it to you if you sent your request by email.
If you wish to receive the information in a different format, for example you have made the request by email but wish to collect the information in hard copy form in person, or to have the information posted to you, please also include these details in your request.
Once we have received your SAR in writing, proof of your identity and any information we reasonably require to locate your personal data, we have one calendar month in which to provide you with your information.
Once we have located your personal data we will either post copies to you by Recorded Delivery or email the information to you in an encrypted attachment (this means you will have to use a password to access the information we send you and is for security purposes – only those with the password will be able to open the information).
Yes.
You can ask anyone to act on your behalf such as a friend, relative, solicitor or employee of a consumer organisation such as a Citizens Advice Bureau.
Before we will discuss or provide your personal data to anyone acting on your behalf you must confirm to us in writing that they have your authority to do so.
Under Data Protection legislation we must provide you with all the personal data you are entitled to.
This usually means we will provide you with everything we hold about you; however, in some cases certain information may be exempt.
This means we do not have to provide it to you.
There are a number of reasons why information may be exempt; however as an example, it may be exempt if providing it to you would compromise the prevention or detection of crime or the prosecution of offenders.
In certain cases we may also withhold some information relating to education, health and social work.
We also do not have to provide any information that is not recorded or create new records for you, or release information about other individuals.
You should contact the Information Governance Manager directly by post or email using the above details; we will then arrange for an internal review of the response to be carried out.
If you are still unsatisfied, you can also complain to the Information Commissioner.
You can complain to the Information Commissioner about the way UCLan or any other organisation is processing your personal data.
The Information Commissioner is an independent regulator who provides advice and guidance on, and enforces, data protection legislation in the UK.
The Information Commissioner will not normally investigate complaints if you have not tried to resolve the matter with the organisation yourself first.
You can contact the Information Commissioner at:
Information Commissioner’s Office Wycliffe House Water Lane Wilmslow Cheshire SK9 5AF
Helpline: +44 (0)1625 545745 or +44 (0)303 1231113 Fax: +44 (0)1625 524510 Web: The Information Commissioner's Office

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/accommodation/our-halls:
We have a wide range of student accommodation options available.
All our halls offer great value for money in a safe, vibrant and inclusive community.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/accommodation/how-to-apply:
Not sure how to apply for university accommodation?
Our team are here to help and support you every step of the way.
How you apply for accommodation with us depends on whether you have accepted us as your firm or insurance choice through UCAS.
Firm choice means you have confirmed your place with us.
Insurance choice means we are your second choice.
Have you confirmed us as your firm choice?
If you're joining the University for the first time we will contact you with your unique registration number.
You can then apply online via our portal .
If you are joining us in September, we will usually open bookings and contact you in the March before you start.
This is when our booking portal opens for the next academic term.
Once you have applied for accommodation we will get back to you with an offer.
When we send an offer for accommodation, you will need to pay at least £250 as a reservation fee/pre-payment.
Please be aware, if you do not have a guarantor, you will need to pay accommodation fees in full before you start.
Please do get in contact if you need extra support and guidance on funding and financial support.
Our owned/leased accommodation;
or
University-registered private accommodation.
Applying for both types may delay the application process.
You will receive information about accommodation in August.
You will be able to apply for accommodation once you have completed the following:
You can apply for accommodation using only one of the following methods:
Please note that we only add properties to our official register that suitable.
For more information contact the private accommodation team.
Under student visa regulations there is a maximum amount of your accommodation payments that can be reflected on your CAS.
You may choose to pay the total accommodation charge.
If so, you must ensure that you are still able to meet UK Visa and Immigration (UKVI) maintenance requirements.
You need to show that you have enough funds to support yourself after paying all your accommodation fees.
Full UKVI regulations and other important information is on the Government website .
If you have booked accommodation and do not get a visa we will refund accommodation fees paid.
This is on a pro-rata basis.
You should contact us immediately if you get a visa refusal.
You will need to provide documentary evidence of this.
If you want to live in halls whilst studying a postgraduate course, we have lots of suitable places for you to stay.
Where possible, we group postgraduate and mature students together.
We are always happy to discuss your requirements.
If you wish to live in one of our leased halls with other postgraduate students can try to arrange this for you.
Please email us to find out more and apply.
You may have a sponsor who will be responsible for paying your accommodation fees.
If so, please ensure that you provide written confirmation to our accommodation service from your sponsor.
This needs to be before you accept any accommodation offer.
If you're ready to apply for your accommodation, visit our accommodation portal.
Here you'll be able to select your favourite halls and room type.
Please make sure you read our conditions of residence .
Particularly the information about cancellation.
Are you currently commuting to campus?
If you decide that this isn't your preferred option, it might be possible for you to move into halls after the start of term.
Please contact us for advice on any vacancies.
Stay in halls of residence isn't for everyone, and if you choose to apply for accommodation elsewhere we have some useful guidance available, along with a list of our recommended private landlords.
If you wish to apply for university registered private accommodation please email the team for more information.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/accommodation/our-halls/roeburn:
Roeburn Hall is close to lectures theatres and in a quieter area of campus.
Roeburn Hall is on the west side of campus on Pedder Street.
The Sir Tom Finney Sports Centre is a short walk away from Roeburn Hall.
You can sign up for gym membership there.
Foster Social Space is close by, great for grabbing a coffee on the go or meeting up with friends to study or socialise.
With a large courtyard space within the gate, it’s a perfect spot for picnics, a walk, and games creating a gated community atmosphere.
Inside Roeburn Hall, you’ll find a games and common room, which is the perfect place to socialise with your flatmates.
Each flat has a bright and modern shared kitchen and lounge area.
All bedrooms at Roeburn Hall are en-suite.
Roeburn Hall has its own launderette with six washers and dryers.
This hall is regulated by the UUK Code of Practice.
Each flat has a bright and modern shared kitchen which is well equipped with the following:
The open-plan lounge area in each Roeburn flat has the following:
All bedrooms are modern and of a good size, featuring the following:
Each bedroom has its own en-suite wet-room with:
You can enjoy the facilities provided within Foster Social Space, which is located on your doorstep.
Foster features a pool table, table tennis and dining facilities.
Walking distances
Want to see your accommodation on our campus map?
Here you will find the answers to frequently asked questions about applying and living in our halls of residence.
If you can't find the answer to your question, please contact us.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/accommodation/our-halls/ribble-premium:
Living on campus in Ribble Hall means you’re only a few minutes from your room to your lecture.
Ribble Hall is just 5-10 minutes walk away from our campus Library, our brand-new Student Centre, and University Square.
It's on the north east of campus in the Purple Zone and a walk into the city centre will take around 15 minutes.
It is one of our larger halls and comprises 35 flats in total.
This includes 20 premium standard flats.
Each flat accommodates four to five students each.
Each premium standard flat has four or five bedrooms, accommodating up to five students.
There are also two shared bathrooms.
The kitchens have the following:
The lounge area in each Premium standard flat has the following:
Each flat has two bathrooms including the following:
All bedrooms are modern and of a good size.
Our bedrooms feature the following:
Enjoy the facilities provided within Harrington Social Space.
Harrington is right on your doorstep, and features a pool table, table tennis and dining facilities.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/accommodation/our-halls/whitendale-premium:
Whitendale Hall is just a couple of minutes’ walk away from our campus Library.
Whitendale Hall is five minutes from our brand-new Student Centre.
It's one of our larger halls with over 80 flats.
This includes 50 premium standard flats, and each flat has four bedrooms.
At Whitendale, you can enjoy the facilities provided within Harrington Social Space.
Great for grabbing a coffee on the go or meeting up with friends to study or socialise.
The flats have an open-plan modern shared kitchen and lounge area.
There is also one bathroom, one shower room and one separate toilet.
Please note, four of the Premium Standard flats are disability adapted.
One of the bedrooms in these flats has an en-suite bathroom.
This means that there is only one toilet and one bathroom in these flats as they are shared between three students instead of four.
The kitchens in the flats are well equipped with:
The lounge area in each flat has:
Each flat has one bathroom, one shower room and one separate toilet including the following:
The bedrooms feature the following:
You can enjoy the facilities provide within Harrington Social Space, which is located on your doorstep.
Harrington features a pool table, table tennis and dining facilities.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/accommodation/our-halls/derwent:
Located to the north of our campus, these compact halls provide excellent value for money.
Derwent Hall is just a few minutes away from the campus Library, the Students’ Union (SU) and our brand-new Student Centre.
You can enjoy the facilities provided within Harrington Social Space, which is located on your doorstep, and features a pool table, table tennis and dining facilities.
There are 16 flats at Derwent Hall, with five or six students in each.
Each flat has a communal kitchen and a two shared bathrooms.
There is an enclosed landscaped garden area outside the halls.
Each flat has a communal kitchen.
The communal kitchen comes with the following:
Each flat has two bathrooms.
Per flat you will have:
All bedrooms are modern and a good size.
The bedrooms have the following:
You can enjoy the facilities provided within Harrington Social Space which is located on your doorstep.
Harrington Social Space features a pool table, table tennis, and dining facilities.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/accommodation/our-halls/douglas:
Douglas Hall is a few minutes away from the campus Library, the Students’ Union (SU) and our brand-new Student Centre.
It is one of our smaller halls and has seven flats with six students in each.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/accommodation/our-halls/ribble-economy:
A walk into the city centre will take around 15 minutes.
It is one of our larger halls and has 35 flats in total.
This includes 15 economy standard flats.
Each flat has five or six students each.
It is on the north-east of campus in the Purple Zone.
The economy standard rooms are excellent value for money.
Each flat has a communal kitchen and two shared bathrooms.
There are 15 economy standard rooms with five or six bedrooms in each.
Our bedrooms have the following:
Harrington is right on your doorstep.
Harrington Social Space features a pool table, table tennis and dining facilities.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/accommodation/our-halls/whitendale-economy:
This includes over 30 economy standard flats, and each flat has four or five bedrooms.
Our economy standard rooms are excellent value for money.
They include a shared kitchen.
In the four bed flats there is one bath or shower room and one toilet.
A five-bed flat has an additional toilet and both a bath and shower.
There is a gated courtyard providing a nice place to relax, along with assurance and security.
Four bed flats include:
Five bed flats include:
All bedrooms are a good size and include the following:
Harrington features a pool table, table tennis and dining facilities.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/accommodation/our-halls/pendle:
Living on campus means you’re only a few minutes from your room to your next lecture.
Pendle Hall is opposite the Students’ Union (SU).
A couple of minutes away you'll find our main Library.
It is in the Green Zone of the campus, located on the northern part of the campus.
It has a mixture of self-contained and two-bedroom flats.
Our brand-new Student Centre and University Square are within a five-minute walk.
There are 50 flats in total, 27 of these are self-contained flats.
There are 22 two-bedroom flats and one flat has three bedrooms with shared facilities.
Each self-contained flat has its own bedroom, kitchen and shower room.
This is for students who want to live by themselves.
The two bedroom flats are suited for students who want to live with one other person.
Each flat has a kitchen and shower room.
The kitchen is well equipped with:
Each shower room consists of the following:
The bedroom is modern and of a good size, featuring the following:
You can enjoy the facilities provided within Harrington Social Space, which is located on your doorstep.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/accommodation/our-halls/sandygate:
Sandygate Halls is approximately a one minute walk to Victoria Mill in Burnley Campus, over a footbridge.
Princess Way is a 10 minute walk from the halls of residence.
Sandygate is a brand new halls of residence owned by Burnley Borough Council, with the University providing the day-to-day services.
Sandygate has 136 en-suite bedrooms, within 29 flats.
Most flats have four or five bedrooms, but a small number have three rooms.
Each flat has a communal kitchen and there is a laundry room onsite.
There are plenty of spaces to socialise with your flatmates, including a social area and cinema room.
Outside the halls there is a large public square.
Each flat has a communal kitchen, which is well-equipped with the following:
There is a student hub social area, which features:
All bedrooms are modern and of a good size, featuring:
Each bedroom has an en-suite including:
The Hall is located on the canal bank, and is approximately a 1 minute walk to Victoria Mill campus in Burnley, over a footbridge.
Princess Way campus is a 10 minute walk from the hall of residence.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/accommodation/our-halls/summergrove:
Studying at our Westlakes Campus?
Summergrove Hall is in a beautiful setting only 15 minutes' walk from your lectures and seminars.
The hall provides 131 rooms, mainly catered accommodation with breakfast and evening meal included for only £77 extra per week.
Please note, the price at the top of this webpage is for the accommodation only and does not include the catered package.
The catered package is an extra £77 per person per week (£216 total per week).
Surrounded by beautiful countryside, Summergrove Hall is located a couple of miles from the Cumbrian coast.
Living at Summergrove, you'll have easy access to the Lake District National Park, perfect for evening walks and weekend trips.
Get your meals included with our new catered package and save time and money on cooking and shopping.
For an extra £77 per week you’ll get tasty, nutritious meals in our on-site restaurant.
This provides an affordable way to ensure you get breakfast during the week, brunch at weekends and an evening meal seven days a week.
Our catering service at Summergrove meets various needs.
There are halal, vegetarian and vegan choices every day.
Other dietary requirements may be available, please email the Summergrove Catering Team .
All Catering Services staff are trained to industry standards.
They are able to provide information on the range offered.
They also know all the ingredients of dishes and advice about allergens and dietary requirements.
The products and services provided are carefully selected.
Our menus feature a variety of healthy and sustainable food options.
This includes daily vegetarian and vegan choices.
The menu is regularly changed to promote sustainability.
We want to encourage you to explore plant-based options.
If you select the catered package you also have access to a small, shared kitchenette.
You can use this for snacks and simple lunches.
The kitchenette includes includes fridge, freezer, microwave, kettle, toaster and cupboard space.
Plates, pans, crockery and cutlery are also provided.
Meal selection will be similar to the sample menus that you will find below.
These will be varied with seasonal produce and themes.
View a selection from our sample menus below.
You can request a full sample menu via email from our Accommodation Team .
As well as the above bakery items, you can choose from any of the following items daily:
Build your own brunch - choose any five items from the selection below.
Some items may not be available every day.
You can also help yourself to the following items available at weekends:
See the sample menus for three weeks below.
One main, one vegetarian meal and one vegan/plant based meal will be available every day.
This is accompanied by a selection of carbohydrates and vegetables.
Once a week, the kitchen will serve special dishes.
These are created by our Catering Team who will showcase their use of culinary skills.
Week one
Prawn jambalaya
Piri-Piri chicken skewers
Cajun spiced salmon
Pepperoni pizza
Beef chilli
Roast chicken breast in chicken gravy
Mediterranean vegetables with gnocchi
Vegetable Tagine
Cheese and tomato quiche
Falafels with red pepper hummus pita bread
Quorn bolognaise
Nut roast
Tofu stir fry
Sweet potato cottage pie
Margarita pizza
Vegan burger
Spinach, squash and chickpea curry
Vegetable kebabs
Week two
Chicken and leek pie with chicken gravy
Crispy shredded beef
Grilled hoki fillet
Chicken in garlic mushroom sauce
Chicken kebab
Quorn chicken with autumn stew
Vegetable stir fry with egg noodles
Roasted peppers stuffed with spicy couscous
Tempura vegetables with sweet and sour sauce
Vegetable bean and rice burritos
Vegetable lasagne
Cottage pie
Vegetables with udon noodles with peanut sauce
Vegan sausages with onion vegan gravy
Vegan jambalaya
Vegan chilli
Vegan kebab
Week three
Chicken tikka massala
Beef burger with bun
Battered cod
Beef lasagne
Chicken fajita
Roast beef with Yorkshire pudding
Chickpea, spinach and butternut curry
Vegetable quarter pounder with bun
Spinach and ricotta tortellini
Vegetable stir fry
Mediterranean tart
Fishless fish fingers
Five bean chilli
Quorn fajita
Roast vegetable skewers
You will also have the following available daily:
Inside Summergrove Hall, you'll find a communal lounge equipped with table football, table tennis and board games.
It's the perfect escape after a day of lectures and seminars.
Each catered bedroom has access to a kitchenette.
Each self-catering bedroom has access to a bright and modern shared kitchen.
All bedrooms at Summergrove Hall are en-suite and have access to a shared lounge area.
Summergrove Hall has its own launderette.
Summergrove Hall has recently been purchased by the University, so some of the information here may change.
Each catered bedroom has access to a kitchenette equipped with the following:
Each self-catering bedroom has access to a large shared double kitchen equipped with the following:
The open-plan lounge area in each Summergrove flat has the following:

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/facilities/social-spaces:
Social spaces are places where you’re free to catch up on your work or relax.
You’ll find them all over our Preston Campus.
We also have them at Burnley and Westlakes.
Whether it’s time to start that assignment, plan that presentation, or tackle that huge reading list.
You could get stuck into some serious revision, work on your amazing idea, or chill out for a while.
Our social spaces are the perfect setting.
Plus, most of our Preston Campus buildings have computer suites and charging points.
You're never too far away from accessing the network to complete your course work.
During building open hours

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/facilities/sports-centre:
Named after a Preston and England footballing legend, the Sir Tom Finney Sports Centre is our multi-million pound, state-of-the-art indoor facility located at the heart of our Preston Campus.
We offer a range of activities from sports clubs to instructor-led classes, court hire and a well-equipped gym.
Our Fitness Suite incorporates more than 100 stations of state-of-the-art Technogym equipment including cardiovascular and resistance machines, an extensive free weight area, core area, 'Cardio Zone' and ‘Row Zone.’
For further details, and an up-to-date list of equipment, please call +44 (0) 1772 895400 .
The Students’ Union offers a wide variety of recreational and social sport opportunities.
These range from social sessions that are ‘just for fun’ to weekly leagues and one-off tournaments.
We welcome everyone of all abilities whether you are a ‘sporty type’ or not.
The University’s sports clubs are coordinated by the Students' Union (Team UCLan).
Although we exist primarily to serve UCLan students and staff, we also organise and facilitate numerous external events throughout the academic year.
These can be anything from international sporting competitions to engagement work with schools, charity events and the University’s very own Lancashire Science Festival.
We can provide catering, sporting equipment, on-site car parking, bleacher seating and activity areas of various sizes.
Please email us or call us for more information.
We provide a range of National Governing Body sports coaching qualifications to enrich your CV and employability.
From football to futsal there's something for everyone.
View our Sir Tom Finney Sports Centre guide here.
Day
Opening hours
Monday to Friday
7.30am - 10pm
Saturday
10am - 5pm
Sunday
10am - 4pm
Students: £99 per year.
To discuss membership, please enquire with the Sir Tom Finney Sports Centre team.
Staff: £15 per month, for minimum of three months.
Payment is taken directly from salary or via upfront payment.
Alumni: £45 per three months (three months minimum).
Alumni must get a Student ID card in order to gain access to sports facilities.
This can be collected from the library during opening hours on the production of two forms of ID (one to be photo).
Sports membership fees can then be paid directly to Sir Tom Finney Sports Centre via reception.
Casual admissions (staff and registered alumni): £5 per session.
Exercise classes must be booked in advance using the online booking system .

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/about-us/library-services:
Our Library services create an inspirational and diverse learning environment.
We promote and encourage independent learning, with support from staff and enabled by information and technology.
Our library teams support staff, students and researchers through online and physical environments.
We provide first line support, 24-hour access to safe study spaces, skills development and collection management.
Each school has a dedicated subject librarian, with specific resources dedicated to every course we offer.
We have invested in digital resources for all our subjects, from art to veterinary medicine.
Our Ask Your Librarian service is available to all students who need support with finding academic information for their subject.
We offer online and face-to-face appointments at both our Preston and Burnley campuses.
Visitors are welcome to visit our Preston Campus library.
You will find details of how to plan your visit on this page.
Outside of exam time, visitors are welcome to use our Preston Campus library and consult library collections.
Exam time is normally between March and May.
Please note that this year, the library will be closed to external visitors from Friday 21 March 2025 until after the exam period ends.
Access is subject to showing appropriate forms of identification at the reception desk.
The different types of visitor access and forms of identification are outlined below.
UCLan Alumni Network members may access the library free of charge and borrow up to four books.
However, use of computers and access to e-resources is not available, due to licensing restrictions.
Alumni will need to provide additional photographic ID (passport or driving licence) and proof of address (bank statement or utility bill) to be issued with a library card.
Please visit the Customer Service desk, on the ground floor of the library, to get your free ID card.
Membership is available for students and staff at other Universities and University Colleges.
Access is not permitted for 6th Form or Further Education Colleges.
To register, you must bring the following:
Reciprocal Access Agreement
The agreement allows any current undergraduate student of the University of Central Lancashire, Lancaster University and the University of Cumbria to join either of the other two university libraries with borrowing rights for just £20 per year.
Postgraduate students, staff and undergraduates on online learning courses can join and borrow free of charge under the SCONUL Access scheme .
If you are a student of Lancaster University or the University of Cumbria please email the library team .
You will have access to borrow up to 4 items.
If you are a current UCLan undergraduate student, please visit the website of the university library you wish to join for details on how you register and what access you will be eligible for.
Students and staff from the Open University must bring one of the following:
Plus one other form of photographic ID, either a passport or driving license photocard.
National Health Service Trust (acute, primary care, ambulance) members must bring the following:
Public library members (18 and over, not junior library members) must bring all of the following:
Please bring original documentation only, scans or copies won't be accepted.
Please note any form of ID documentation has to be the original documents, screenshots or scans will be not accepted.
Please note that visitors are not permitted in the computer areas or study rooms.
Please also note that visitors are not permitted to bring children in.
Please note the use of the library is subject to university rules and regulations and is for educational purposes only.
You may be asked to provide contact details for the duration of your visit.
Visitor entry into the library for all categories of visitor is available from 9am to 9pm, seven days a week.
Visitors (except Alumni) will not usually be able to access the library from late March until the end of May.
This is to allow maximum space for our students during the examination period.
We will not be processing new SCONUL applications during this time.
If you require any further details on external membership please contact us on +44 (0)1772 895355
The ground floor of Preston Library is open 24 hours during term time.
It hosts:
The library at our Burnley Campus has a wide range of relevant materials to support your course, including:
The Special Collections of the University of Central Lancashire Library contain a large number of books, documents, and historical resources of both national and international importance.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/student-voice/study-spots-preston:
As a MSc Physician Associate Studies student at our Preston Campus, Abi has spent a lot of time looking for the perfect places to study.
The Library is the perfect place to go if you like peace and quiet, but you don’t mind a little background noise!
My personal favourite place is at the back corner, where there are four singular desks.
These desks are out of the way, which is perfect for a little privacy while you study.
There are also rooms on this floor you can reserve which contain a whiteboard and a computer monitor, perfect for group study or more peace and quiet!
My personal favourite room is number 23!
When you first enter Greenbank Building, there are study pods right in front of you.
However, my favourite ones are accessed either:
These pods specifically provide a little more privacy than the others, as they are not directly near the entrance and they are next to a window, letting in more sunlight than the other pods available.
The Student Centre has the perfect balance of background noise while still being able to get work done!
There's a brilliant coffee shop, and very comfy seats on the second floor.
My favourite place to sit in here is right next to the coffee shop, where there are little pod seats that are perfectly out of the way and face the window for a little additional sunlight!
These are perfect for a nice sunny day!
They are seated under trees, giving a lovely calming environment, and are perfect for a bit of reading before your classes.
These seats provide lots of space for group study too.
I love these!
They are so comfy.
You can access them by walking straight ahead when entering Greenbank Building, just down the stairs and to your right!
They're perfectly situated next to a tap where you can fill your water bottle, and they are surrounded by a wall, providing some privacy while you work.
Preston is such a vast campus, and although I’ve given a few places you can have in mind the next time you need a place to work, I strongly recommend exploring the campus yourselves.
I know there are many more places to find!

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/student-stories/living-with-people-at-uni:
Student accommodation comes with various different room types and options.
Some students opt for studio apartments to live comfortably on their own.
However, this is the most expensive option alongside a one-bedroom apartment.
For people like me who love to save and budget, I would rather go for a cheaper option and still live comfortably.
For example, flats with en-suite bedrooms and shared living spaces.
In addition, being an undergraduate or postgraduate student might influence your choice of accommodation.
Sharing a common space with other people isn't for everyone, like I will jokingly tell my friends.
If you want to improve on teamwork, living with flatmates will do that!
I currently live in a student en-suite room; here, you only have to share kitchen and still have your privacy.
Here are some tips to be able to live with other people:
I know it can be daunting meeting new people and sharing spaces with them does not make it any easier.
One thing for sure is that every flatmate is feeling the same.
Be the first to introduce yourself and be friendly.
Creating a WhatsApp group chat seems to be best.
This helps with communication, especially if you want to pass on messages to your flatmates.
If you like structure, suggest to your flatmates that you to create a rota to help with chores.
For example, I came up with a rota where someone takes the bins out every Sunday.
This way, everyone will do their fair share.
In addition, if you are a super clean person, I would advise to create a rota to clean the kitchen, especially the worktops.
Once you have started to live with your flatmates, you will roughly know what time everyone cooks.
Most shared kitchen can only accommodate two people cooking at the same time.
Most people will just wait for the first person to finish so they can comfortably cook.
Asking on the group chat can also be useful as you can let everyone know ahead you will prefer cooking around this time or day.
Sharing spaces with people comes with its own baggage, but the experience is rewarding and the memories shared will last forever.
Most importantly, stand up for yourself!
Never accept disrespect or let anyone take advantage of you.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/advice/guide-to-living-in-halls:
I’m Hollie, a master’s student in Cybercrime Investigation.
Below are a few tips for living in accommodation based on my experience.
Every first year student will get a place in halls but deciding on which halls to reside in can be a big choice.
It depends on personal preference whether you would like your own bathroom or if you are alright with sharing.
For me I didn’t mind sharing a bathroom, as long as it wasn’t with many people, and I wanted a lounge area so I could sit down on a night in front of the TV and relax.
Deciding on where to stay is just the first part of living in accommodation.
For quite a few students this will be their first time living away from home, it might even be their first time in this country.
To take the pressure off meeting people why not join our Facebook community groups for the accommodation you will be in.
It's a great way to meet your flatmates before you move in.
I posted my flat number in the Whitendale Halls group and after a while I felt like I knew my flatmates before we even moved in.
Talking to flatmates beforehand also means you can arrange what pans, pots, plates, cutlery you are going to bring between you, so you don't have many duplicates of the same item.
If you're sharing a bathroom, it is easier to figure out who needs to use it when.
For me, I was always up on a morning for lectures but my flatmate wasn’t, so it worked out, but there are two bathrooms in each accommodation (unless you have an en-suite).
Another thing to think about is creating a cleaning rota.
This is so you know each week who is doing which job such as taking the bins out, cleaning the kitchen, mopping the floors, cleaning the bathroom and more.
I had a cleaning rota in my flat and I found it was handy, so everyone knew what they are doing and it avoided unnecessary disagreements.
If you do experience any disagreements or find an item is not working in your flat, our accommodations officers are on site, in their offices, during the week to give you a helping hand.
In my flat, we had a Wii games console, and it was great for allowing us to bond in our flat; it was the best night of the week!
It's good to schedule some time to spend as a flat each week.
Whether this is having a games night- board games or games console - or going out for food, quizzes and more.
It is good to communicate with your flatmates and do a weekly shop with one another to share the staple foods between you.
It's also nice to have flat meals with one another each week.
One of my best memories from my time in halls was having Christmas dinner with my flat!
Moving into university halls during my first year was the best decision I made as it allowed me to make friends for life!

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/student-voice/how-to-make-friends-in-uni-halls:
BA (Hons) Business & Human Resource Management student, Graciete, shares her tips on how to make friends in university accommodation and resolve conflicts.
Like any other student going to university halls, it was my first time living alone.
Living alone provided me with the freedom and independence I had never experienced before.
Especially because I had just turned 18, this was my first step into adulthood.
I was so excited about decorations and buying new cooking sets for my room that little did I know about basic living rules in halls.
Of course, I knew how to be approachable and respectful to others, but when you are living with strangers, there are more things to consider.
Something extremely important about living in student accommodation that people don’t talk about as much is how to live with strangers and how to be a good flatmate.
Reflecting on my experience, I am going to give important tips to make friends and resolve conflicts with your flatmates.
Communication is the centre of any relationship, regardless of the closeness we have with that person.
Knowing how to express ourselves to others and being able to listen is a powerful tool to tackle conflicts.
Being self-aware will help you better understand what type of communication skills you need.
For example, a people-pleaser would prefer to let the other person do whatever they want in the false pretence that they are avoiding conflict.
When in reality that conflict has already started.
So that person would have to practice assertiveness.
Or a confrontational person who is ready to 'fight' often intimidates and imposes their beliefs on others.
This person would need to practice listening to the other side before jumping to conclusions.
Generally, being self-aware would allow you to be honest with you, and to have empathy to others while being assertive.
Improving the overall communication and relationship with others.
While living with your flatmates, any small thing can quickly escalate into a huge fire, so it's important for you to set clear expectations of how everyone wants to live in the flat.
The main goal of communication is to avoid feeding into petty arguments.
Common arguments often start over chores in the common area.
So make sure to have a conversation with your flatmates from the beginning about common area rules.
Establish clear expectations on how the common area should be shared.
People have different values and upbringings, so it's important that everyone has a say in the decision-making of the rules.
For example, whether or not to share your domestic electronics or kitchenware.
Another rule could be cleaning the kitchen every time you cook in terms of wiping down the counter.
Equally, if you can’t or don’t want to wash your dishes straight away, take them to your room.
That way, the kitchen wouldn’t accumulate dirt, and if you are in a rush, you don’t have to clean your dishes right away; by putting them in your room, they are not in another person's way.
Also, decide who takes the trash out each week and make a schedule that suits everyone.
Overall, regardless of how your rules look, it's important to set expectations for everybody in the house.
Through a simple and chilled conversation, you can avoid problems becoming bigger.
Ideally, this conversation would happen within the first week in the flat because people are more willing to be good flatmates and to get to know each other.
Note that the point here is to make sure that everybody is aware and participates in the house rules.
Mainly, keep an open channel and always communicate in the daily or weekly basis about any changes.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/student-stories/life-in-uni-accommodation:
As soon as I booked my accommodation, I immediately had an abundance of questions.
The helpful staff working at my accommodation made it extremely easy to ask any queries, such as how many people I’d be sharing with, which put my anxiety at ease.
In the months before moving, I connected with my future flatmates through a Facebook group.
There were two second years and one first year, which was great as we could all communicate our plans and ask the second years about their experience living in accommodation.
This allowed me to feel I had made some strong connections prior to even stepping foot on campus.
Like most first-years, moving day seemed very intimidating, so I chose to move in on a quieter day.
My best tip is to create a checklist of the items you need and ensure they are ticked off before moving day, as this will make the whole process run smoother.
Within the first week of living with brand new people, I already felt immensely comfortable.
We had a discussion about accommodation etiquette.
I would suggest that everyone does this as an essential first step to making your new living situation enjoyable for everyone.
Some of the most important pieces of etiquette were to share the fridge space fairly, take out the bins and keep the space clean.
Within the first couple of weeks, I had already gone out with my flatmates and we had formed a great connection.
We even decided to keep living together next year too!
Alongside this, the accommodation staff held many events throughout the year (such as pumpkin cutting contests, treasure hunts and more).
These have made the whole experience so pleasant.
Although I am still running into unfamiliar situations from living in a shared space, it’s easy to handle by maintaining a positive relationship with those I live with.
Everyone is in the same boat, so you all need to work together to keep everything smooth.
I couldn’t be happier with my decision to move into accommodation and not letting the challenges I perceived beforehand hinder my decision.
I am now looking forward to continuing this journey into my second year!
If you are still faced with this mental roadblock, I suggest contacting UCLan with your questions or using the “Ask a student” service.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/student-stories/living-in-halls:
The idea of moving to university was incredibly daunting - I’d be six hours away from home with no friends or family nearby.
I had no idea what to expect and wasn’t sure how I’d cope!
Luckily, UCLan had all kinds of support available.
I joined the course and accommodation Facebook groups set up by the university.
I shared my flat number in the group, hoping to find my future flatmates.
Within days I’d had a response and I'd found five of my six flatmates!
They were second-years, some of whom were studying the same course as me.
I had made a note in my application about my anxiety and so was grateful to be paired with people who could show me around and give me the ins and outs of both my course and university life.
We created a group chat to discuss who’d bring what and where we were going out for freshers.
This helped dispel some of my fears - I felt like I’d already made good friends and I hadn’t even stepped on campus yet!
Of course, the time did come for me to arrive, and I was greeted at Roeburn Hall by lots of helpful Student Ambassadors and staff.
The fact that everyone moves in to UCLan accommodation on the same day made it feel like a whole event.
It was nice to be around so many other first years moving away from home too.
There were loads of events on throughout the year - film nights, treasure hunts, pizza parties.
They were great excuses to do things with your flatmates as well as meet people in other flats.
The communal common room was also great for this.
I met so many new people just by hanging out and I could barely recognise myself by the end of the year.
Moving hours away from home and into student accommodation seemed like the scariest thing ever, but it did absolute wonders for me.
It allowed me to come out of my shell and helped my confidence massively.
I applied to university thinking my anxiety would get the best of me.
I’m now in my third year and on two sports teams, working as a Student Ambassador, and still living with my first-year flatmates (who are also still my closest friends!).

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/student-stories/making-friends:
Before I started, I was worried about how and if I would make friends at university.
I quickly realised that everyone is in the same boat and it became less scary.
Discover my top tips for making friends during your time at uni.
You can make friends before you even start university.
The uni set up Facebook groups for your course and accommodation (if you’re living on campus).
You can join these and find course and flat mates before you move here.
I found this really useful as I got to know who I was living with before I moved to uni.
This made me feel more at ease when it came to moving in day.
I met one of my best mates at uni I met during my first year whilst living in student accommodation.
During freshers' and welcome week there are plenty of activities to get involved with.
From pizza and movie nights in your accommodation to fairs and activity nights hosted by the Students' Union .
These are good ways to meet new people living in the same accommodation.
You'll get to know a variety of people, especially on different courses, when you attend the activities.
The Students' Union also put on karaoke, quiz nights and other activities throughout the year.
You'll meet many different students ranging from first years to postgraduate and PhD students and international and home students.
Here you'll meet people from a range of backgrounds and courses.
During welcome week, all of the different clubs and societies that you could join at uni showcase at a fair on campus.
Joining a club or society provides a great way of meeting people outside of your course and flat.
Each Wednesday there are socials where you go out or do something and bond as a club.
Looking back, I wish I had taken the opportunity to join a club or society and meet other people outside of my course.
There are plenty of part-time jobs around Preston and it is likely you will make friends with your co-workers.
Whilst working as a Student Ambassador for the university I have met a range of people and even made friends for life on different courses.
Since I started uni, an app called Umii has been introduced to help students make friends whilst they are here.
The app matches them to likeminded students to help make lasting friendships.
Embrace the opportunities presented to you over the next few weeks and you’re sure to make friendships that you’ll carry with you throughout your university years and beyond.
Remember, if you ever feel nervous, everyone is in the same situation as you.
Make the most of these formative years, and may your university journey be filled with lifelong friendships and possibilities!

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/student-stories/settling-in-at-uni:
Wondering what’s next after you've accepted your place at UCLan?
Take a look at my useful tips and advice for settling in at uni.
Don’t be afraid!
If you’re nervous about meeting new people, you are not the only one.
Believe it or not, almost every first-year student is in the same boat.
This might sound even more daunting if you are studying in the UK as an international student.
The remedy lies in putting yourself out there.
Step out of your comfort zone and reach out to others.
It certainly takes time to become friendly and be comfortable with people you have never met before.
You’ll have a lot of opportunities to meet people in your lecture halls and in study groups.
Moreover, The Students’ Union has over 70 different societies providing a perfect way of meeting people who share similar hobbies to you.
A task that I’d recommend doing when you first start university is to register with a local GP.
By registering with a local doctor’s surgery, you’ll have access to the health care you need, whenever you need it.
The process is pretty straightforward, and it can be completed either online or in person at the GP’s office, depending on the practice.
UCLan has its own on-campus Medical Centre located in Foster Building.
If you love socialising, Welcome Week is one of the things you might be most excited about; it helps to ‘break the ice’ between new students.
A typical Freshers’ Week or Welcome Week might include activities such as Comedy Nights, Drag Karaoke, Film Night and Hip Hop Ping Pong to name a few.
You don’t have to drink to fit in as the activities are not centred around alcohol.
By taking part in activities that you enjoy, you are more likely to encounter like-minded people that might become your friends for life.
A variety of activities included in UCLan’s Welcome Week help new students adjust to life away from home.
Moving out of your childhood bedroom might feel quite strange and you may experience home sickness.
There are ways to make your new bedroom at university feel like home by customising it; for example you could bring your bed linen and decorate the walls with photos and posters.
If you have space, you could even bringing some small furniture items from your old room.
This can help your new bedroom feel more familiar and homely.
Learning to handle your money is a significant part of university life.
If you don’t create a manageable budget and keep track of your finances you could run out of money for food, rent and socialising.
Fortunately, there are numerous strategies to avoid this:
If you want more tips on managing your finances, take a look at UCLan's budgeting guide .

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/welcome/facebook-groups:
If you’re joining us as a UK undergraduate student at the University, then being part of our Facebook community will help you get prepared for life at UCLan.
Our Facebook community will give you an idea of what to expect from university.
It's a great way to make friends with people before you’ve even arrived here.
There is a community group for each undergraduate subject area where you can:
Current students will also be on hand to answer any questions you might have and you can remain a member of the group until graduation and beyond.
Our course groups are open to all 2025 entry undergraduate applicants and they will remain active during your studies with us.
On each group we have included a handy list of which courses the group covers, but if you are unsure which group is best suited to you, please chat to us and we can advise.
The following groups and pages are available for our Burnley Campus applicants.
The following groups and pages are available for our Westlakes Campus applicants.
The following groups and pages are available if you're staying in our accommodation:
Join the conversation and keep up-to-date with the latest news on our other official channels and groups.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/dental-therapy-bsc:
Dental therapists play an increasingly important role in the delivery of primary care dentistry.
The structure of this course is exciting and innovative in that it is integrated with both the BDS Dentistry and the BSc (Hons) Clinical Dental Technology courses.
There is a great emphasis on clinical experience and initially you will be based in our purpose-built Dental School in Preston developing clinical skills and supporting knowledge, as well as an understanding of how the human body works in health and disease.
You will have the opportunity to work with actors to develop your communication skills.
Towards the end of the first year, you will go to one of the four primary care Dental Education Centres (DECs).
The DECs are clinical training centres where you’ll treat patients, under supervision, and gain first-hand experience within the communities you are most likely to serve after graduation.
The DECs are based locally within the community, and have been equipped with brand new surgeries, and study facilities dedicated to student teaching.
In Years 2 and 3 you will continue to spend your time at the DEC, putting your learning into practice by treating patients.
In Year 3 you will gain additional clinical experience at an Enhanced Training Practice.
Our module will provide you with an introduction into routine primary care where your theory can be applied to a practical setting.
You will learn how to use dental equipment and materials to perform basic practices such as uncomplicated fillings and aliginate impressions of the mouth.
On this module you'll develop the knowledge underpinning the foundational clinical skills.
You'll be introduced to the science of dental caries, emphasising how this can be prevented.
You'll also look at   the theory of cavity preparation, the property and chemistry of dental materials and the concept of professionalism for the dental surgeon.
The aim of this module is for you to gain knowledge in the normal and abnormal development and growth of the oro-facial region.
You'll also look at the basic science underpinning oral and systemic disease relevant to clinical dentistry.
This module will introduce you to professional practice in a dental environment.
You will be focusing on your communication and learning within a team.
You will also be introduced to reflective practice and begin to use and record your own reflections.
This module will prepare you to be able to work in a clinical environment and support patients.
You will learn to communicate to patients and write up histories.
You will study our Clinical Knowledge Module alongside our Clinical Skills Module so that you can put your learnt theory into a practical setting.
You will develop methodology and study theory of how to act professionally in a dental clinic and apply this to demonstrate your understanding.
Our module will aim to develop your skills to apply an evidenced-based approach to learning, practice, clinical judgement and decision making.
You will have an understanding of professionalism within a dental team and your responsibility for minimising health inequalities.
This module aims to build upon existing knowledge to further develop skills required to practice as part of the wider dental team.
You'll learn about oral diseases and the role of the Dental Care Professional in the prevention, recognition, and management of them.
You'll also gain skills such as managing special care patients, and tooth whitening.
You will learn all the key skills to practice professionalism within the primary care environment of the Dental Education Centre.
You can apply your knowledge and evidence-based practice to ensure that you develop your communication skills within a clinical team.
The aim of this module is to develop your clinical skills, including routine restorations, simple periodontal treatment and uncomplicated extractions.
This includes a number of simulator courses to widen your clinical skills.
You'll also focus on improving your communication skills, including explaining a staged treatment plan to patients and developing skills to manage nervous patients.
This module aims to develop your knowledge of Periodontology, Principles of Surgery, Paediatric Dentistry, and Evidence-Based Dentistry, building on the previous content in the Basic and Applied Clinical Knowledge modules and the skills you gained in Basic and Applied clinical Skills.
This module will further develop your knowledge in dental public health.
You will examine the risks along with preventative strategies in dentistry, and you will learn why dentists have responsibilities for dealing with patients with psychological and other mental well-being problems.
This module will enable you to build on your professionalism skills in primary and secondary care environments.
You'll develop your communication skills and the skills needed during clinical cases.
This module  will enhance your knowledge and skills of caring for patients who are receiving treatment under sedation or general anaesthesia.
Furthermore, you will develop your skills  to provide evidence-based and effective support for anxious patients.
On this module you'll utilise the skills and knowledge you've developed throughout the programme to produce an extended piece of work on a relevant topic.
As a graduate of the BSc (Hons) Dental Therapy course you can register with the General Dental Council as a dental therapist.
You may also be eligible to apply for entry into the Graduate BDS course.
You will be eligible to apply for a place on a Dental Therapy Foundation Scheme (DTFT) which are designed to support new or recently qualified Dental Therapists during their transition into the Primary Dental Care workforce.
As a Dental Therapist you will work as part of the dental team providing preventive and routine dental care to children and adults.
You can work in general practice (NHS/Private), community or hospital settings.
Dental Therapists work either under the prescription of a dentist or directly without the patient having to see the dentist first (within Scope of Practice), they can also open their own practices and employ other members of the dental team.
There are increasing opportunities for postgraduate education for registered Dental Therapists.
We will consider your educational achievements, predicted grades, work experience and personal statement.
If you don't meet the grades for your chosen course, we will consider you for other programmes.
We know that many factors can influence the grades you achieve in school or college.
If your life experience has affected your academic studies, we can take this into account.
Use the UCAS Points Calculator below to check whether you are eligible.
Unsure if you meet our entry requirements?
Contact our friendly Course Enquiries team to talk through your options.
If your application is successful, you'll be invited to interview in February 2025.
Interview dates are:
There will be a short time between interview bookings opening and the dates when the interviews are being held.
Please note no other interview dates will be available.
Please note if your application is unsuccessful, you cannot apply again in the same UCAS cycle.
If you have already enrolled on the course prior to completion of your health screening, or if your health screening clearance is revoked or changes during the course, you may be required to withdraw from the course even if you have already started.
If you would like to discuss or seek advice in respect of the health screening requirements for this course, please contact the Course Enquiries Team.
This course involves working with vulnerable people, including children.
To make sure we accept suitable students, you must get a clear enhanced DBS (Disclosure and Barring Service) check, previously called a CRB check.
We will help you with this process after you receive a conditional offer to study at the University of Central Lancashire.
If your Enhanced DBS (Disclosure and Barring Service) check is not suitable for the course you applied for, your offer may be taken back.
If you have already started the course and your DBS check later shows a criminal conviction, you may have to leave the course.
If you know that your DBS check will show a past conviction, please speak to the Course Leader.
Some convictions may not stop you from doing the course.
Discover how many UCAS points your qualifications are worth
Our courses with a foundation year could be exactly what you're looking for.
They provide an alternative route to study for this degree.
Home Transfers
Dental Schools do not accept transfers of students from other schools.
This is because the requirements for graduation defined by the GDC are not taught and assessed in a similar order.
Government capped places would also be disrupted by student transfers.
Schools may consider transfers for students in unforeseen exceptional circumstances with approval of both the sending and receiving programmes.
In most cases the student would need to re-start from year one for the reasons described previously.
DSC encourages prospective students to consider the intensity of oral healthcare courses and their potential geographical distance from their support networks, when applying for dental school.
International transfers
Students from a dental school outside the UK are unable to transfer into a programme in a UK dental school.
This is because international programmes follow their local regulatory requirements which are likely to differ from those in the UK.
The NHS has created some guidance on student finance for those studying undergraduate healthcare degrees.
If you are thinking of studying for a health-related undergraduate or postgraduate degree, take a look at what financial support is available.
A three-year degree qualification typically comprises 360 credits and each 20 credits (a standard module) equates to 200 hours of study, which comprises of a mixture of lectures, seminars, tutorials, practical sessions and independent study.
Independent study is an important aspect of your degree course.
The exact combination of study time will be detailed within your module descriptors, and will depend on your option choices.
Traditional lectures and tutorials will develop your knowledge, as well as problem based learning (PBL), where you will work as part of a group to develop an integrated knowledge of how the body functions in health and disease.
We use a variety of methods for assessment such as short answer, single best item, written assignments and portfolios and clinical assessments.
During Years 2 and 3 you will be based at one of four local community-based Dental Education Centres (DECs).
The DECs are clinical training centres where you will treat patients, under supervision, and gain first-hand experience within the communities you are most likely to serve after graduation.
By placing you at the heart of community dental services within Cumbria and Lancashire, we aim not only to attract local candidates, but also foster long-standing relationships with those communities, leading ultimately to an increase in the numbers of newly qualified dental therapists who will remain in the area to continue their professional career.
As a Dental Therapy student, you will learn clinical skills in one of the most modern phantom head rooms in Europe, equipped with state-of-the-art audio-visual equipment.
We employ a number of teaching methods to ensure you learn the various aspects of therapy.
There is a great emphasis on clinical experience and initially you will work on simulators in phantom head to develop clinical skills.
You will also work with actors in order to develop your communications skills.
In the first year of the programme you’ll be based in the Dental School at Preston.
The course focuses on developing clinical skills and supporting knowledge as well as being a professional.
Towards the end of the first year, you will go to one of the four Dental Education Centre’s Centres (DECs) located in Accrington, Blackpool, Carlisle and Morecambe Bay.
The DECs are based locally within the community, have been equipped with brand new surgeries, tutorial and study facilities dedicated for student teaching.
In Years 2 and 3 you will continue to spend your time at the DEC putting your skills into practice by treating patients, returning to Preston for some lectures and education.
The University and the DECs are linked via IT for learning and teaching, with individual student access to the relevant intranets.
Human Anatomy and Resource Learning Centre (HARLC)
An understanding of anatomy is essential for dental professionals.
HARLC is the focus for you to learn about the workings of the human body, particularly the head and neck region.
The resources in the centre include anatomical models, guides and videos of professional dissections.
You will have access to the centre from 7.30am until 8.00pm.
By using the resources in the HARLC we aim to give you the ability to learn anatomy, which you can apply to your clinical practice.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/support/disability:
Do you have a disability, mental health condition, specific learning difficulty or are you deaf?
We are passionate about making sure education is accessible for everyone.
Find out about the disability support that is available to you.
We strive to remove any barriers for anyone with disabilities as far as possible, to ensure that we provide an inclusive environment.
More information can be found in our student disability policy .
You can also view our student support privacy notice .
A brief guide to disability and inclusive support is below:
Sharing information You can share information about any disability when you apply to study with us.
This may be via UCAS or directly on our online application system.
When you have been made an offer, you'll be contacted by our Inclusive Support Team to provide further information.
Reviewing support and adjustments After you provide further information, you'll be allocated an Inclusive Support Advisor/Officer who will work with you and the course team to put an Inclusive Support Plan in place.
Applying for Disabled Students' Allowance (DSA) We can assist you with your application for DSA which is assessed by the Government.
You may not be eligible for DSA, for example if you are a degree apprentice or an international student.
In this case you may be offered an internal study needs assessment to review any additional support needs.
Ongoing support We know that conditions and health can fluctuate, so your adjustments may need to change.
You can access Inclusive Support at any time during your studies to review the support you need.
Once you have shared information about any disability, an Inclusive Support Advisor/Officer will provide confidential support.
They will work with you and your course team to put in place support and adjustments, as well as helping with Disabled Students' Allowance.
You'll be able to fully access everything you need to thrive in your studies and university life.
Disabled Students’ Allowance (DSA) is a grant that helps to pay for extra equipment and support.
This includes one-to-one support tutors, specialist equipment, software and the cost of extra travel.
It is not means tested and does not affect benefit entitlement.
It is also important to note that applying for DSA does not in any way affect your chances of gaining a place at university.
We aim to make our campus as inclusive as possible.
That means making our spaces accessible to students with disabilities.
Some of the accessible features across our campus include ramps, widened doors, accessible toilets and hard of hearing systems.
We are committed to supporting apprentices with disabilities and support needs.
This includes advice, support and adjustments to help you achieve your full potential.
You can find information about specific support for apprentices on our webpage .
More information can also be found in our student disability policy .
AccessAble has detailed access guides to our buildings on campus, so you can plan in advance.
It's kept up to date and has all the information you need, including photographs.
Check out their helpful guides.
We provide an inclusive learning environment.
If you have a specific need or disability, we will make sure you have access to the same opportunities as everyone else.
We reduce the need for individualised adjustments by making arrangements to benefit all students and apprentices.
We can also make adjustments and change the way we do things on an individual level where necessary.
Each case is different, but see below for some examples.
We have a staff team of BSL / English interpreters, established since 1993.
The team is made up of qualified and highly experienced interpreters, who interpret across a wide variety of subjects.
Some of these include Law, Psychology, Fashion, Film and TV Production, Sports Performance, Deaf Studies, and Theatre Studies.
Our team of interpreters will adapt to your communication needs and individual styles of signing.
They work with a diverse range of deaf students and apprentices with an equally diverse range of communication preferences.
This includes British Sign Language, Spoken English, and Sign Supported English.
What to expect Our team of interpreters provide access to key events throughout the year.
For example Open Days, Offer Holder Days, information visits, and all university Graduation Ceremonies.
We work closely with course teams and timetabling.
This ensures interpreters will be in all your lectures, seminars, any practical sessions.
You can expect the same interpreters in each module throughout the semester.
Have any questions?
Want more information about working with interpreters whilst studying at UCLan?
Please email our Inclusive Support Team or text +44 (0) 7973660619 .
UCLan is a registered Non-Medical Help provider for the role of British Sign Language (BSL) Interpreter and Sighted Guide.
For more information, view our webpage or email our Inclusive Support Team .
Are you an offer holder with a disability, a care leaver, or estranged?
Join us on the STAR programme for a taster of university life.
With opportunities to stay in our residential halls, and workshops to explore our facilities.
The Equality Act 2010 defines a disability as any physical or mental impairment that has a substantial and long-term adverse effect of your ability to carry out normal activities.
“Long-term” is generally accepted as having lasted, or likely to last, at least 12 months.
This can include neurodiversity or a diagnosed mental health condition.
You may be eligible for Disabled Students’ Allowance (DSA) if you face extra student costs relating to your disability.
DSA may contribute to:
DSA only cover costs related to academic study and do not cover course-related costs.You may not be eligible for DSA, for example if you are an international student, or a Degree Apprenticeship student.
In this case, please contact the team as early as possible to review your support arrangements.
You can share information about any disability or learning difficulty you have at any stage of your application journey.
Once you have an offer to study with us, a member of the Inclusive Support Team will be in contact.
Our team will review any information you have provided and assess the impact of any disability on your course.
They will put in place academic adjustments, as well as exam/assessment adjustments.
This will take place before the start of your studies to ensure support is in place from the very beginning.
Evidence of your disability is needed before individual adjustments can be made.
The evidence required depends on your disability.
Our Inclusive Support Advisers can advise you on the provision of disability-related evidence.
If appropriate your requirements will be determined by a Needs Assessment Report (NAR).
The University will use the NAR to identify disability-related adjustments.
Find out more about inclusive support on the Student Hub .
To support fire safety for deaf and hard of hearing people, we’ve installed the ‘Deaf Alerter’ system in many buildings on our campus.
Find out more information on our Deaf Alerter system .
It is our mission is to increase choice, access and quality of provision for deaf and hard of hearing students entering and studying in Higher Education, and this is why we have created the Consortium of Higher Education Support Services with Deaf Students (CHESS).
Our aims:
To find out more visit: CHESS

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/contact/accommodation-enquiries:
To see how the University uses your personal information, please see the appropriate privacy policy :

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/accommodation/faqs:
Here you'll find questions about applying and paying for accommodation, guarantors, before you move in and more.
If you can't find the answer to your question below, please contact us.
We provide a wide range of student accommodation.
When you live in our halls of residence you’ll benefit from a convenient location, modern self-catered facilities, inclusive bills, support from our on-site teams, and a 24-hour security presence.
All our accommodation is situated within a short walking distance of our campuses.
Visit our accommodation webpages to find out about our halls communities, what’s on offer and how much it costs.
You can apply online here.
Our main Preston Campus is situated in the heart of Preston city centre.
The train station and bus station are just a 10-minute walk to the campus.
Our sustainable travel information provides details of the different ways of travelling to UCLan and discounts associated with public transport, cycling, walking, and car sharing.
If you want to live with your friends, simply put their name down in the additional notes section of your application and ask them to do the same.
As long as we have availability, we will fulfil your request.
You can apply through our easy to use online application service.
You will need your UCLan student registration number (this begins with a G) to apply for accommodation.
You can apply at any time after we have opened our online application system as long as you have accepted a firm offer of a place on a course with us.
If we are your insurance choice you will receive information about applying for accommodation in August.
You will receive an acknowledgement email from us once we receive your application.
We will do our best to match your requirements with what is available.
We may call or email you if we require further information, particularly if you have indicated that you have a medical condition.
If you are a UK student and have been made a room offer in one of our owned or leased accommodations (including Sandygate Hall ) you will need to make an advance rent payment of £250 when you accept the offer.
This advance payment of rent will be deducted from your October rent instalment.
The balance of the rent is collected in three parts, usually in October, January and April.
International students
The advance rent payment will range from approximately £913 in economy standard rooms, to approximately £1460 in the highest priced en-suite accommodation.
The advance rent payment for a self-contained one-person flat would be around £1649.
These prices are estimates based on the 2025/26 academic year.
Any offer of accommodation we may send to you will have a deadline for response.
This deadline will be notified to you with any room offer made.
Congratulations on your room offer.
You are under no obligation to accept a room offer, so please take the time to read your offer carefully.
It is important that you notify us of any concerns you might have with your offer before accepting it, as once you accept your offer you enter into a legally binding contract.
If for any reason you are unhappy with your offer, you may reject it.
Otherwise, please follow the steps online to review, accept and pay the advance rent payment for your room offer.
If this is the case we will cancel your accommodation contract, and refund any payment made.
Please contact us as soon as you are aware of this.
A guarantor for university accommodation is someone who agrees to cover any unpaid rent or charges if you are unable to pay.
This is usually a parent, guardian, or another responsible adult.
The guarantor should be over 18 and a UK resident.
If a you cannot provide a UK-based guarantor, they may need to pay your rent in full upfront or use a guarantor service.
Our Accommodation Team can provide further guidance on guarantor requirements and alternative options.
All UK students who do not pay their rent in full will require a guarantor.
Special arrangements are in place for students who are leaving the care of a local authority.
Your guarantor can be anyone who is over the age of 18, and who is willing to make payment of your accommodation fees.
This is according to the obligations contained within the accommodation contract and conditions of residence which you agree to when accepting a room offer, if you should default.
You must gain consent from your guarantor before providing us with their personal details.
Should you default in the payment of your rent or any other monies payable under the accommodation contract, your guarantor will be expected, upon written demand, to pay all outstanding amounts.
No, we don’t ask for proof of income, or home ownership.
The guarantor will be given an identification number and password to access our online system.
They will be asked to login to read the guarantor agreement carefully, then accept or decline online.
If the guarantor you nominate declines to accept the agreement you will need to nominate another guarantor before your room offer can be confirmed.
If, during your acceptance of a room offer, you do not pay your rent in full you will be asked to provide the name and email address of a guarantor.
Once you have completed acceptance of the contract an email will be sent to your guarantor advising them of their nomination and what they need to do.
Your contract is not completed until your guarantor has accepted.
Please get in touch with the team with a brief outline of your circumstances and we will provide advice and guidance to support you.
Do not bring too much – you can buy most supplies cheaply and easily once you are here.
There may be limited storage space in your kitchen, especially fridge and freezer space, so plan your shopping accordingly.
Essentials
You must provide your own bedding and other essentials including:
Please note that toasters and kettles are supplied in all halls’ kitchens as standard.
Racks are available outside each hall for the storage of bikes.
We do not allow bikes to be stored in hallways or stairwells within the residences due to health and safety reasons.
Students living in university or leased halls of residence will not be eligible for a permit, except Blue Badge holders who will automatically be eligible for a university priority permit.
If private car travel is a specific course requirement, you may also be eligible for a permit.
All students are eligible for a weekends and evenings permit.
We promote sustainable travel where possible, and there are plenty of alternatives to car travel on campus and beyond.
Launderettes are located close to all our accommodation blocks, the closest location can be found within your halls handbook.
All sites have washers and driers and are open from early until late at night seven days a week.
All leased halls also have on-site launderettes.
Prices start from £2.80 to wash and a minimum of £1.70 to dry.
Smoking is not permitted in any university buildings including halls - this includes vaping.
You are not insured by the university.
UK students may be able to extend any existing house insurance policies from their family home, but you will need to check your own policy.
Otherwise you will need to arrange your own contents insurance, as will all international students.
Yes, all of our owned and leased halls provide internet and Wi-Fi free of charge.
In flats where a TV has been provided in the communal area, the TV licence has been paid for.
Please note this means that only the TV in the communal area has been paid for.
If you bring your own TV for your own bedroom and use this to access live content, you will need to pay a separate TV licence.
Please note that the TV licence relates to BBC content, so if you have not brought your own TV but are using a laptop/tablet/console/another device to access BBC content (including iPlayer), you may still need to pay for a TV licence.
Please check for the latest information on the TV Licencing website .
A home address is your permanent residence, so it might be your family home or where you live with your partner or friends.
A term-time address is where you stay if you're living in university or private accommodation when studying.
For example, if you lived in our halls this would be classed as your term-time address.
For some students, their home and term-time address will be the same.
This would usually mean you are a commuter student, as you'd likely travel into campus for your studies.
A number of rooms are fitted with equipment that allows certain seizures to be detected the moment they occur, ensuring there is a quick response by our security team if required.
Further details are available on request.
We will contact you after you apply for accommodation to check whether the equipment is suitable for your condition.
Preston Campus - if you want to change your room for any reason within university owned or leased accommodation, this can be arranged subject to availability.
An administration charge of £25 is made for moving rooms.
Burnley Campus – if you want to change your room for any reason within Sandygate Hall this can be arranged subject to availability.
You do not need to vacate your room during the Christmas or Easter vacation periods.
You can apply to move to a different hall or flat within our owned or leased accommodation, and this can be arranged, subject to availability.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/accommodation/private:
We work closely with registered landlords, making sure that there is a good supply of different types of affordable and suitable accommodation.
Finding the right student home for you can be a challenge, which is why the student accommodation service is here to help with queries you may have regarding private accommodation.
There are numerous types of private accommodation, ranging from large halls of residence and smaller residential blocks to shared houses, bedsits and flats.
We require private landlords who register with the University to abide by our Core Requirements and comply with Preston City Council standards.
Current private registered accommodation vacancies are listed throughout the year on our searchable website called UCLan Studentpad , which is linked to UCLan’s accommodation website and can be viewed on a mobile phone or tablet.
Here you will be able to search for accommodation and post messages to other students, if, for example, you are looking for housemates.
If you are entering your second, third and fourth years of study you can secure private accommodation any time during the Spring or Summer term, in preparation for your return to University the following September.
Most landlords register their vacancies for next September on Studentpad from mid-December onwards.
The site is password protected.
If you are a current, enrolled student you can email us to obtain this.
If you are a new student requiring private accommodation, please email us with your UCLan student registration number for a log in password to Studentpad.
All students are welcome to apply to live in University owned/leased halls of residence for any year of study.
Please be aware that only university-registered accommodation is advertised on StudentPad.
If you look in other places, such as letting agents or online, the accommodation is likely to be unregistered, may not comply with regulations or may not be safe.
Our guide below contains lots of top tips and useful information on tenancy agreements and the questions you should ask landlords prior to signing up or paying any money.
Private registered halls
There are numerous private halls of residence in Preston, of varying size.
All are extremely close to the campus.
They offer en-suite rooms and standard rooms with shared bathroom facilities.
For cost and contract length it is best to check with the landlord as each hall will differ.
Studios/Self-contained flats
Some halls also offer studios which are self contained apartments with a personal shower room and kitchen.
This type of accommodation is usually more expensive than other types.
Shared flats and houses
This type of accommodation usually involves having your own bedroom but sharing the communal facilities with other tenants.
Rent and contract length will vary between properties and landlords.
Some rents will be inclusive of bills and others will exclude the utility bills, it’s best to check with the landlord.
This type of accommodation is likely to be cheaper than the en-suite rooms and the studios/self contained accommodation.
If you are a new student, the University and Students’ Union recommend that you don’t start looking for accommodation for your next academic year until the beginning of March at the earliest.
Students already in year 2 or subsequent years of study are able to start their search earlier than March if they choose to, but you must be aware that a signed contract is a legally binding document and once signed can be difficult to get out of.
Ask yourself:
How much can I afford?
In addition to the rent, you may have to pay a damage deposit, gas, electricity, water rates and internet bills, if not included in the rent.
You also need to check how often your rent is payable.
Rent is normally paid termly in advance, however, you should check this with your landlord.
International students, without a UK-based guarantor, are likely to have to pay the whole contract period in advance.
Who do I want to live with?
They say you only get to know someone once you start living with them!
Decide how many people you want to share with and try to choose your future housemates carefully.
You shouldn’t rush into this, especially if you are a first year student and have only been here a few weeks.
There is plenty of accommodation and plenty of time to make sure you are really happy with your chosen house mates before you start your accommodation search.
Once you have signed a tenancy agreement, it is too late to change your mind!
Where do I want to live?
Most private houses are within a one-mile radius of the campus (most are much closer than this) and within easy walking distance.
If you own a car, you should check whether parking is permitted outside, or near to, the accommodation.
However, you will not be able to bring your car onto the University campus during the daytime.
Please view the University's Car Parking information.
When you do start looking for accommodation, give yourself plenty of time.
If you are looking for a house, some landlords will not be able to meet you on the day you call.
You don’t need to start your search until the Spring or Summer as there is a plentiful supply of registered halls of residence rooms and houses.
Try to make appointments during daylight so that you can take a good look at the internal and external environments.
Make sure all the people you intend to share with have a chance to view the property.
Ask the landlord for a copy of the contract to take away with you to read before signing.
Make sure you understand all the terms and conditions.
If anything is unclear, seek advice from the Student Accommodation Service.
We will offer you as much help and advice as possible but you have to make the decision on whether a house is right.
Let the landlord know whatever decision you reach as soon as possible as other students may be interested in the property.
Above all, be patient.
A comprehensive checklist is provided on this page to help you decide if the accommodation you are viewing is both safe and suitable.
View a few properties so you get an idea of rent levels and standards of accommodation and never sign a contract without having made a thorough inspection.
Do not take the first place you come across unless it meets all your requirements.
Tenant Fees
From 1 June 2019, the Tenant Fees Act 2019 limits the fees that a landlord can charge you.
The only payments a landlord can charge in connection with a tenancy are:
If the fee a landlord is charging is not on this list, it is a prohibited payment and you should not pay it.
Please see detailed information in the guidance for tenants here .
This guidance will advise you on the steps to take if your landlord has charged a prohibited payment.
In addition, a landlord cannot evict you using the Section 21 eviction procedure until they have repaid any unlawfully charged fees or returned an unlawfully retained holding deposit.
Holding fee
When you find a property you would like to live in, the landlord may ask you to pay a holding fee.
The holding fee is taken prior to signing the agreement.
The payment is made to hold a property while a prospective tenant decides whether to accept the tenancy, and while the landlord undertakes a right-to-rent check.
The amount a landlord can charge is a maximum of one week’s rent.
Once a tenancy agreement is signed, the fee has to be refunded to the tenant -the suggested period for holding a deposit is 15 days, unless it is agreed in writing that the holding deposit will be deducted from your first rent payment.
You should obtain a written receipt from the landlord when you pay this fee.
If you make any arrangement with the landlord to store your possessions in your new accommodation during the summer vacation, this will be at your own risk.
Landlords do not insure your personal belongings.
You may find that insurers will not insure your possessions if the property is to be unoccupied during the summer.
Damage deposit
A damage deposit is usually charged by private landlords either before or at the start of the tenancy.
The amount can vary from one landlord to another but by law must not exceed the sum of five weeks’ rent.
This deposit is returned at the end of the tenancy provided that you have not damaged the property(fair wear and tear excepted), and if your rent has been paid in full.
The landlord, must, by law, secure your deposit in a government-approved Tenancy Deposit Scheme.
For more information, go to the section “Tenants Responsibilities, Deposits and Inventories”.
Gas and electricity
Sometimes rents in small properties do not include fuel bills.
If this is the case when you move in, you will need to take meter readings and open an account with your chosen supplier of gas and electricity.
When you leave, inform your supplier that you are leaving, take a meter reading and obtain a final account.
A few properties have pay-as-you-go meters (coins or cards).
Water rates
Water rates are usually paid by the landlord but you should check your contract to see who is liable.
If your contract states that the tenants are responsible for paying the water rates then you should arrange to make the payments monthly so that you only pay for the length of your tenancy agreement.
You should also ensure that the supplier is aware of when your liability commenced.
Insurance
The landlord will be responsible for insuring the building and the furniture and furnishings he/she has provided.
You are responsible for insuring your own personal possessions including any furniture that belongs to you.
Several insurance companies offer student contents insurance, search online to compare prices.
You can also check whether any cover for you is provided under your parents’ home insurance policy.
TV licence
Up-to-date information is available on the TV Licensing website .
The law still applies to students.
You must be covered by a TV Licence to:
This could be on any device, including a TV, desktop computer, laptop, mobile phone, tablet, games console, digital box or DVD/VHS recorder.
You can buy and manage your licence online and there are a range of payment options.
And if you don’t need your licence for a full 12 months, you could apply for a refund.
If your landlord/halls provider provides a TV for communal use, they must pay for the licence, but this does not cover individual bedrooms.
You can be prosecuted for not having a TV Licence.
The maximum penalty is a £1,000 fine plus any legal costs and/or compensation you may be ordered to pay.
In certain circumstances, you may be covered by your parents’ TV licence, but don’t assume this to be the case before checking the criteria.
Council tax
Council Tax is payable to the local council and is based on the value of the property.
If all the occupants of the property are full-time students during the period stated on the tenancy agreement, the property will be exempt from Council Tax.
So long as you are a full-time UCLan student and you inform the University of your term-time address, the landlords should be able to gain exemption for the property.
If you do not do this you may be asked to obtain a Council Tax Exemption letter from the Student Hub .
If the landlord is unable to gain Council Tax exemption as a result of your failure to inform the University of your term-time address (or by providing an exemption certificate), it is likely there will be a clause in the tenancy agreement stating that the charges for Council Tax will be passed onto you.
If one adult occupant of the property is a part-time student or a non-student, 75% of the Council Tax will be due on the property and if two or more adult occupants of the property are part-time students or non-students, full Council Tax will be due on the property.
If any of the occupants finish their course and continue to stay in the property over the summer vacation, a 90% charge may be payable.
The landlord may ask you to agree to pay a higher rent to cover this charge.
If you are a part-time student you should discuss Council Tax with the landlord before you agree to take up a tenancy.
A landlord may only accept you as a tenant if you agree to pay a higher rent to cover the Council Tax charges which result from your occupation of the property.
If, as a part-time student, you are entitled to claim Housing Benefit, you may be entitled to claim an increase to cover the extra cost incurred.
Any agreement made between you and the landlord should be in writing and signed by both parties.
I live outside Preston or the South Ribble, do I need an exemption certificate?
If you live outside these areas, you can apply for a certificate via our Online Council Tax Exemption Certificate Request Service or by contacting The <i> based in the Library at Preston Campus.
If you receive a bill do not ignore it!
You must seek advice as soon as possible to ascertain if you are liable.
Further information can be sought from the contact details below.
If you are looking for advice on council tax benefit as opposed to council tax exemption, please contact our Advice and Resolution Centre.
Contact details:
Student Support Call our Student Support Team Email our Student Support Team Student Accommodation Service Telephone: 01772 892529 Email our Student Accommodation Team
Advice and Resolution Centre Telephone: 01772 893897 Email our Advice and Resolution Centre
Understanding the contract between you and your landlord is very important.
There are certain statutory rights that you have as a tenant that nothing in your agreement can alter.
It is essential that you ask your landlord to provide you with a written tenancy agreement, which must be signed by both you and the landlord.
Make sure you read the tenancy agreement very thoroughly and that you understand all the terms before you sign it.
If you have any queries please come to speak to us.
Where a property is let to UCLan students, the length of the contract, if fixed term, will normally be between 37 and 51 weeks.
The period may be subject to negotiation between you and the landlord.
Such a period gives you security for the academic year but means you, as well as the landlord, are committed to the tenancy for that period.
The landlord can serve a Section 21 Notice, at any time during the tenancy, stating that he wishes to seek possession of the property at the end of the fixed period in the tenancy agreement.
Assured shorthold tenancies
Tenancy agreements for students are nearly always for a fixed term.
If you want to terminate your fixed term tenancy agreement before the end of the tenancy, you can only do so if there is a clause in the contract that permits it, however, this is extremely unlikely.
Your landlord can agree to it or your landlord can allow you to find a suitable replacement.
If you are held to contract, you must pay the rent for the full period whether you live in the accommodation or not.
If you don’t pay the rent, the landlord can take you to court.
You may also be able to terminate the contract if the landlord has significantly breached the tenancy agreement, but seek legal advice first.
If you have to withdraw from the University for health reasons and you can supply supporting medical information the landlord may agree to release you, however, this would be a matter for you to discuss directly with the landlord.
Your landlord can seek to evict you if you breach the terms of the tenancy, for example, by causing a nuisance to your neighbours or if you have not paid rent and it is more than two months overdue.
There is a procedure that landlords must follow if they are seeking to evict you.
If you require advice please discuss this with the Accommodation Officers or staff at the Students’ Union Advice Centre.
Alternatively, visit the Advice and Resolution Centre in Foster Building or seek independent legal advice.
Joint tenancies
Landlords who register their properties with the University agree to abide by our Core Requirements, and in doing so agree to issue single tenancy agreements to individual students.
You should avoid signing a joint tenancy agreement - this is where all tenants sign a single agreement and the agreement states that tenants will be held jointly and severally liable for the rent.
If you are a student with a family, or a couple, and you will be the sole occupants of a property, it is acceptable to sign a joint tenancy.
Landlords have a duty to ensure the safety of their properties for tenants.
These duties are laid down by legislation and are as follows:
Gas Safety
This is extremely important.
There have been a number of fatalities in properties from carbon monoxide poisoning as a result of badly installed or maintained gas appliances.
Legislation requires your landlord to carry out a gas safety inspection on all gas appliances at least once every 12 months.
The servicing must be carried out by a Capita/Gas Safe engineer.
You have a right to a copy of your landlord’s current Gas Safety Certificate and should request a copy prior to entering into the tenancy agreement and a renewed copy if the certificate expires during the tenancy or any work is done on the boiler.
Carbon monoxide is a gas which is highly poisonous.
It has no colour, smell or taste and so can be difficult to recognise.
With enough air, burning domestic fuels produce carbon dioxide and water vapour in safe amounts and these products are normally taken away by a chimney or flue.
However, if there is too little air and the air vent, chimney or flue is blocked, any carbon monoxide produced cannot escape.
Look out for stains, soot or discolouration around a gas fire.
There should not be a strange unusual smell when a gas appliance is on.
The flame on a gas fire or heater should not burn yellow or orange.
The main symptoms of carbon monoxide poisoning are: unexplained headaches, sleepiness, streaming eyes and general lethargy.
If you are at all worried that a gas appliance is faulty, switch it off immediately.
Call National Grid Gas Emergencies (Formally Transco Gas) – (This is a 24 hour emergency line) immediately.
Contact your landlord and notify them about the problem.
If they have not made any effort to rectify the problem after a reasonable period of time, contact the Health and Safety executive via their website: If National Grid Gas Emergencies disconnect a heating appliance then the landlord must provide you with emergency heating.
Remember - never attempt to repair a gas appliance yourself and never block up air vents, even if there is a draught.
Electrical safety
Landlords have a legal duty to ensure electrical equipment and the wiring is safe.
Check that your landlord has had all wiring and electrical appliances inspected by an approved contractor and ask to see their Electrical Safety Inspection Report.
(N.B.
All electrical appliances should be tested for safety annually.
Fixed installations and wiring should be tested for safety every five years.)
Remember - never attempt to repair electrical faults yourself.
Always report the fault as soon as possible in accordance with the method agreed with the landlord.
Furniture
All upholstered furniture including mattresses should be fire safe by conforming to the Furniture and Furnishings (Fire Safety) Regulations 1988.
Look for sewn-on labels that state that the furniture complies with these regulations.
If there are no labels ask the landlord for proof that the furniture does comply with the regulations.
The landlord must replace any furniture that is not compliant with the law.
If they refuse you can report them to Trading Standards, which could result in them being fined.
If you find that your landlord is not complying with the above legislation you should contact:
You should also inform the Accommodation Office.
Landlords can incur very heavy fines for non-compliance with legislation.
Houses in multiple occupancy (HMOs)
Private houses rented to students are classed as Houses in Multiple Occupancy (HMOs).
This is where:
There are regulations in place that put the landlord under a legal duty to manage this accommodation properly and that state what amenities and fire safety requirements it is reasonable for tenants to have (i.e.) toilets, fire escapes, facilities for food storage etc.
The University’s Registration Scheme requires landlords to become compliant with these regulations.
If you move into a property that is not registered with the University you need to understand that it will not have been checked by any UCLan accommodation staff and therefore you will need to make every effort to check the property is up to standard and the landlord is fulfilling his/her obligations to the HMO requirements.
If you have any concerns about the safety of your accommodation, contact your landlord immediately.
If you need advice, contact the Student Accommodation Service or Housing Standards at Preston City Council.
Repairs
Landlords are legally bound to keep the house in a good general state of repair.
This means they must:
In addition, all homes must be “fit for human habitation” (i.e.) the property must have or be:
If you are not happy about any aspect of disrepair, the most important step is to write to your landlord stating exactly what repairs need to be made.
Keep a copy of the letter/text/email.
Give the landlord a fixed time to get the repairs done and inform him that if the repairs are not implemented you will take further action.
If the repairs have not been completed after this time you should contact the Student Accommodation Service or Students’ Union who can appeal to the landlord on your behalf.
Sometimes a phone call from the University is all that is required.
If, however, this has no effect, Student Accommodation Service will advise you to contact Housing Standards at Preston City Council.
A Housing Standards Officer will normally come out to investigate your complaint and take action if appropriate.
Do not stop paying rent during this period as you will be breaching the terms of your tenancy agreement.
There is a strict procedure if you are going to stop paying rent.
Seek advice first.
Examples of problems which may occur are:
The above list is not exhaustive and if you believe your accommodation is defective or unhealthy you should follow the advice given above.
When you begin your tenancy make sure you find out from the landlord what you should do in the case of an emergency or an urgent repair.
Your landlord is harassing you if his/her behaviour stops you having “quiet enjoyment” of your home.
“Quiet enjoyment” is a legal term which means that you have a right to live comfortably in your home without undue interference from your landlord.
It is a statutory requirement of the landlord and does not have to be written into your contract to be binding on the landlord.
Harassment is a criminal offence and does not have to be extreme or intentional before you can do something about it.
Examples of harassment are:
A landlord cannot evict you from a property without a court order.
Throwing you out of the property or changing the locks whilst you are out are examples of illegal eviction.
In these instances, or if you are being threatened with violence, call the police and contact the Housing Advisory Service at Preston City Council.
They can help you enforce your rights.
Harassment from other tenants
Occasionally students suffer harassment from their fellow house mates.
If this happens to you, and you feel unable to resolve the situation, you should try and discuss this initially with your landlord.
You can also come for advice to the Student Accommodation Service or the Student Support Drop In on the Upper Ground floor of the Student Centre.
It is unlawful to harass another person, and it is also a breach of the UCLan Regulations for Students, so seek help if you require it.
Tenant responsibilities
As a tenant you will be legally required to take reasonable care not to hinder or frustrate the work of the landlord.
You must:
Deposits
A deposit is paid to the landlord at the start of the tenancy to safeguard against any damage caused to the property beyond normal wear and tear or against any unpaid rent.
Most student landlords take a deposit of around £150 - £250 but you should check with each landlord to see how much they are asking for.
By law, the deposit cannot be more than the sum of five weeks’ rent.
Tenancy deposit protection
When you pay a deposit to a landlord, it must be protected by law.
The landlord must safeguard your deposit using a government authorised tenancy deposit scheme.
This means that you will be able to get your deposit back when you are entitled to it, and if there is a dispute over the return of the deposit it will be easier to resolve.
When you sign a tenancy agreement you should pay the deposit as requested by the landlord.
Then, within 30 days, the landlord must give you details about how your deposit is being protected, including:
If the landlord does not mention anything to you about deposit protection, make sure you ask!
You can check if your deposit has been protected in a scheme.
Inventories
We would normally expect landlords to have made an inventory already when you move in, and ask you to check and sign it, but if you are not given one, make a detailed inventory of the contents and condition of the house as soon as you move in, listing all the defects (if any), and give a copy to the landlord when s/he has agreed it.
If the landlord refuses to check the inventory with you, ask an independent witness (a friend will do) to agree and sign it with you.
A sample inventory is available from the Student Accommodation Service.
Take photographs of any damage that is there when you move in.
Photographic evidence can be very useful if there is a dispute at the end of the tenancy.
Report any breakages to the landlord in writing and keep a copy.
When you are due to leave the property you should arrange a check-out inspection with your landlord.
However, if this is not possible, take photographs of the property to compare with earlier photographs to establish any damage/deterioration.
Check the circumstances in which your landlord could have a claim on your deposit.
Always remember that money cannot be deducted for reasonable wear and tear.
The tenancy deposit schemes
The three government approved schemes are as follows:
You can check if your deposit has been protected in a scheme here .
If your landlord has not protected your deposit
You can apply to the local county court.
The court can order the landlord to repay the deposit to you or protect it in a scheme.
If your landlord has not protected your deposit he will be ordered to repay three times the amount of the deposit to you.
At the end of the tenancy
You should try and leave the property in the same condition that it was given to you at the start of the tenancy, fair wear and tear excepted.
Make sure you have paid your rent and utility bills.
Agree with your landlord how much of the deposit should be returned to you.
You should receive this agreed amount within the next 10 days.
Resolving disputes
If you cannot agree with your landlord on how much of your deposit should be returned to you, there will be a free service offered by the scheme protecting your deposit to help resolve your dispute.
Your landlord is obliged to provide you with this information when he protects your deposit in his chosen scheme.
Your landlord cannot serve notice stating that they wish to repossess the property at the end of the tenancy until he has protected the deposit and given you all the details about this.
Further Advice
By following this checklist you will look more closely at the property and be prompted to ask questions of the landlord and resolve any issues before you decide whether the property is right for you.
This will enable you to make an informed decision.
Of course, there may be other questions you think of yourself - don’t be afraid to ask the landlord!
If the landlord agrees to provide something new or re-decorate before you move in, make sure you get this confirmed in writing.
The University, whilst not wishing to unduly restrict the freedom of individuals, is committed to ensuring that local residents and students are able to reside peacefully alongside one another.
Advisory notes for students
Our Student Guide to Regulations requires that students behave in a socially acceptable manner and refrain from conduct which may damage the University’s good name.
This applies to behaviour both on and off the University’s premises.
Students living in the private sector should be aware that they may be living in an area where neighbouring families have young children, or there are elderly people who need to have undisturbed rest.
There may be neighbours who work on shifts and require sleep during the day.
Students should be aware that it is unlawful to create unacceptable noise disturbance or to behave in an intimidating manner towards those living nearby and the general public.
The University may take action against any student living in private sector accommodation who breaches the Regulations for Students by behaving in an unacceptable manner.
All complaints made to the University will be recorded and investigated.
Serious breaches in the Regulations for Students can result in suspension or expulsion from the University.
Core requirements
Landlords who register with the University must sign to agree that they are willing to abide by these requirements.
The purpose of the Core Requirements is to encourage landlords to conduct their business in a professional manner and to carry out repairs promptly.
The criteria have been chosen to reflect common sense obligations and responsibilities and to set standards which are achievable.
From a wellbeing perspective, you may find some of the sources of support below helpful.
University support
Other useful telephone numbers:
Other useful links:
Disclaimer : This is intended as a guide only and is not a complete statement of the law.
Its contents are without prejudice to legal rights.
If you are in doubt about your legal rights or obligations you should seek legal advice.
Please note: We visit most but not all premises listed as appropriate for student accommodation solely to ascertain their general suitability in respect of accommodation and facilities offered and the normal upkeep of premises.
Registered properties are re-visited from time to time, but no assurance can be given by us that the properties are being maintained properly between visits.
Each student should, however, make his or her own inspection before agreeing to take a tenancy.
We do not undertake any detailed inspection of electric wiring, fitments or appliances, gas installations and appliances, water heaters or other similar appliances that may be on the premises.
A recommendation or listing of any premises by the University does not imply a guarantee of the safety of any such fixtures or fittings, which are the responsibility of the landlord.
If at any time a student has cause for concern over such features, or generally in respect of the accommodation, he or she should contact the landlord immediately.
We do not accept any responsibility in contract, tort (including negligence) or otherwise for any loss or damage whether direct, indirect or consequential suffered by a student as a result of the student using the registered property listings.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/student-life/burnley:
Want to know what life is like in Burnley?
Burnley is an old industrial town with a bright future.
It's home to a growing community of students, who love its food scene and booming nightlife.
Burnley has that real Northern soul.
It has a proud industrial history - you'll probably be studying in a converted mill.
There is heavy investment in the town as part of the Levelling Up scheme, so there's lots of opportunity for students.
Plus, there are plenty of pubs, restaurants and bars to enjoy yourself when you're not in uni.
Burnley boasts a great choice of foodie spots.
Head to the Market Hall for a selection of international street food, including Bengali, Thai and Chinese.
Try Ellis' in the town centre for the best burgers and shakes (or cocktails, depending on your mood).
Fancy a sit down dinner?
The Palazzo serves delicious Italian food in a beautiful old bank building - the perfect spot for date night.
And, of course, there's a Nando's .
Ellis' - Serving the best burgers and booze about, bringing big city vibes to Burnley.
Find it right in the town centre.
Icaro Lounge - Tapas, burgers and cocktails all under one roof.
Find it next to the cinema in town.
Big B's - This takeaway is just a 5 minute walk from campus.
Serving next level burgers, pizzas and kebabs.
Raidys - Ran by local lads, this top quality takeaway has some of the tastiest burgers - not to mention their loaded fries.
Little White Horse - Raidy's have collaborated with this local wine bar, so you can sit down to enjoy their burgers.
Cosy Coffee - A coffee shop perhaps most famous for it's delicious milkshakes.
Little Barista - Coffee connoisseurs love the Little Barista's rich, organic coffees and excellent selection of countertop treats.
Rhode Island Coffee - Another local favourite serving coffee and food in a relaxed atmosphere..
Starbucks - There's a Starbucks in town and another just a short walk from campus, for all your caffeine needs.
The Winter Lotus Brew House - A fabulous new café which serves a great Full English, as well as sandwiches, small plates, burgers, pasta and more.
Aroma Asian Restaurant - There is a great choice of authentic curries at Aroma, and it's right in the town centre.
Shimla Spice - Also in the town centre, Shimla Spice have a delicious selection of curries served in decadent surroundings.
Usha Restaurant - A brilliant curry house, with regular weekday deals which are great value for money.
The Market Hall - The Market Hall has a choice of independent eateries, featuring cuisines from around the world.
Choose from Thai, Chinese, Korean, Bengali and more, plus all your usual favourites too.
Continentals - Serving up an array of Middle Eastern food, fresh off the barbecue.
Empire Theatre Champagne Bar - Authentic Thai cuisine served in a relaxed bar.
Bellissimo Italian Burnley - A cosy bistro serving Italian dishes during the day.
Ballaro Restaurant - A brilliant Italian with regular weekday offers.
It also has a great beer garden for outdoor dining in the summer.
The Palazzo - Another amazing Italian set in a beautiful old bank building in the town centre.
La Escotilla - The place to go for tacos.
Don't forget to try one of their delicious dipping platters.
Taco Bell - Taco Bell has officially came to town at Pioneer Place.
Try one of their famous combos.
Wellsprings - A little out of town, but well worth the travel.
This delicious Mexican restaurant has incredible views over Pendle Hill, as well as great food and cocktails.
1885 Bistro Bar - Big portions at reasonable prices, with a great menu to choose from.
It's ran by Burnley Leisure Group and all profits are reinvested in community projects.
Finsley Gate Wharf - Enjoy a meal in an idyllic canal-side setting, with a great choice of food.
Little White Horse - Enjoy a traditional Sunday Roast every Sunday, with a choice of beef, chicken or vegetarian.
The Loom - A quirky gastropub with a choice of small plates and pizzas, and there's often live music on.
You can find it in the town centre.
The Boot Inn - A Wetherspoons right in the centre of town, with all your usual pub grub on offer.
The Four Alls Inn - A hidden gem just outside town.
Delicious, traditional pub food, including an incredible Sunday Roast.
The Prairie - A great menu including mixed grill, steak, fish and chips, and more.
It's near the Prairie Sports Village on Colne road.
Ready to dance the night away?
There's something for everyone in Burnley, with pubs, bars and clubs open until the early hours.
Plus, they're all close together so you don't have to walk for miles.
Finsley Wharf - Just a short walk from campus, Finsley Wharf is the perfect place for a drink on a sunny day.
Pull up a chair by the canal and soak up some rays.
Inn on the Wharf - An old pub brought back to life, with fantastic live music every weekend.
The Coal Yard - A cracking pub to start your night, with a pool table for entertainment.
The Loom - This quirky little gastropub often has great live bands on.
It also serves food.
Ellis' - Book a boozy bottomless brunch at Ellis' or just enjoy a cocktail or two at the bar.
Little White Horse - Burnley's newest bottomless brunch spot, who've collaborated with Raidy's on the menu.
Mojitos Bar - You can hit the dancefloor or have a game of pool at Mojito's.
Penny Black Bar - Penny Black's is right in the heart of town and often has live music events on.
The Corkhouse - If you're feeling more refined, The Corkhouse have a fine selection of wine and cocktails.
William's Bar and Lounge - William's often have DJs on at the weekend, as you enjoy a drink with friends.
Remedy Gin Bar - This nightclub regularly has live DJs and bands.
Smackwater Jack's - Own the dancefloor at Smackwater Jack's where they play all your favourite throwback tunes - there's even karaoke downstairs.
Sanctuary - An alternative bar and club where you can enjoy regular live rock music.
Burnley has a great sporting history and there's lots of opportunities to get involved.
UCLan students get a discount with Burnley Leisure , which gives you access to the gym, swimming pool and squash court.
Golfers can head to Towneley Golf Course or the Prairie Driving Range to tee off.
If you're more of a spectator, then you can watch Burnley Football Club or Burnley Cricket Club .
Find out about our elite sport, leagues and our support for talented athletes
There are lots of beautiful parks in Burnley, which we encourage students to visit.
Towneley Park is over 400 acres, with a mix of woodland, green fields and gardens.
It is home to the historic Towneley Hall, as well as a garden centre and cafe.
Thompson Park has its own boating lake, which is open every weekend from April to October.
If you prefer a more challenging walk, then the Singing Ringing Tree, Pendle Hill and Hurstwood Reservoir all provide a good trek.
Our Burnley Campus is close together, so you can walk from class to class.
Burnley Manchester Road train station is just a short walk to campus and our accommodation.
Burnley also has great transportation links to the rest of the North West.
Manchester is just an hour away by bus or train.
You can get to Preston in 45 minutes by train, or an hour and half by bus.
There are also trains to Blackpool, Leeds and York, if you fancy a day out.
Explore our fantastic campus and discover what life is like here at the University of Central Lancashire.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/support/study:
We're on hand to help guide you through your studies, with academic support and resources to ensure you can reach your full potential.
We have teams across our campuses who can always help make sure you’re on track.
Deliver work you can be proud of with a range of workshops, assignment feedback and one-to-one sessions available to all our students.
We offer advice, support and guidance to all students to help you develop your academic skills and improve your career outcomes.
Our academic skills and career support includes:
Looking to become more tech savvy?
Our online Digital Skills courses cater for all abilities.
We want to see you achieve all your goals and sometimes that starts with understanding the software you’ll need to use.
We have a range of workshops available to students covering anything from PowerPoint to Photoshop, just take your pick.
We offer support ranging from:

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/facilities/student-centre:
Inside the Student Centre you’ll discover a huge range of services focused on you.
From student support to vast social spaces, a café and meeting rooms, you'll find space to take a break, catch up with friends and access your support needs.
The Student Centre also has
View our Student Centre guide here .
The Student Centre and University Squares Project was the final stage in the implementation of our £200 million Estates Masterplan 2015 – 2022.
This project supported the Masterplan vision to create a world-class campus in Preston and create stronger links with the local community, helping create a healthy, safe, active and sustainable campus.
The project achieved its objectives to draw the city and the University together, to provide a single hub for various student services, to produce a gateway to campus, and to deliver a large square for corporate and community events.
Much of the construction process and outcomes focussed on reducing environmental impacts.
During the pre-planning stages, we undertook a climate change adaptation strategy appraisal, a low and zero carbon feasibility study, an environmental impact assessment, and produced an indoor air quality plan.
The construction phase delivered an extensive ‘green roof’ garden with potential for ecological activities, and a new bike shelter & individual showering facilities.
At roof level, we delivered extensive solar PV provision, and inside the building we introduced an intelligent BMS system with lighting sensors both to reduce operational energy consumption.
All CLT slabs using timber came from sustainable sources (PEFC Certified).
Over 300 new trees were planted as part of the overall Masterplan works and £10.2million was achieved in social value and local spend.
In April 2024, we employed AMA Alexi Marmot Associates to undertake a Post Occupancy Evaluation of the Student Centre & University Squares Project.
The Estates & Campus Services Team are investigating ways to improve some of the issues identified.
The report identifies a number of ‘quick wins’ including:
The report also identifies building specific issues following occupant feedback that could be addressed in future to enhance the experience of building occupants including amongst others:
View the full POE report.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/student-life/food:
Preston is home to a vibrant food culture.
There's a great choice of independent eateries, as well as all your favourite high street chains.
Take a look at some of the best food and drink spots Preston has to offer.
There are lots of great restaurants in Preston.
You can sample cuisines from around the world, all within easy reach of the city centre.
Angelo's Italian restaurant is known for it's delicious pizzas and pastas.
Coco's Soul Food is the place to go for Caribbean cooking.
Or if you prefer Korean food, try Kimji's Korean Restaurant .
Meanwhile, Mowgli's Indian Street Food serves tantalising Indian dishes, in beautiful, fairytale-like surroundings.
Check out some of our other favourite restaurants in Preston below.
1842 Restaurant and Bar - There's something for everyone, whether you fancy fish, meat or vegetarian food, all served in a stunning modern interior.
Aven - Taste the best of British cuisine when you try the tasting menu, or order a full-sized meal.
The New Continental - Enjoy a traditional pub lunch and wash it down with a pint.
East Z East - This family-owned Punjabi restaurant in Preston is known for its delicious starters, kebabs and curries.
Served in exquisite surroundings.
Mowgli Street Food - Unique Indian dishes that you won't find at your local takeaway, all served in a fairytale-like setting.
The Silk Route - Another incredible Indian which has an all you can eat buffet every Sunday.
Great value for money.
Coco's Soul Food - The ultimate Caribbean comfort food, including burgers, curries and tacos.
Khao Thai Eatery - A fabulous Thai restaurant serving rich, flavourful dishes.
Kimji Korean Restaurant - Bibimbap, noodles, soups, stews and more of your favourite Korean food.
The Thai Orchid - A family-ran Thai restaurant serving authentic dishes, including Pad Thai, Green Curry and a choice of stir fry's and soups.
Angelo's - Dine in a beautiful Italian restaurant serving all your favourite dishes, including pizza, pasta and steak.
Café Bar - A lovely Italian known for their pizzas and pastas, serving a range of Mediterranean tapas dishes as well.
Salvatore's - An authentic Italian dining experience with indoor and outdoor seating.
Just a short drive from the city centre.
Bar Pintxos - Head to Bar Pintxos for a little taste of Spain as you try their delicious tapas dishes.
Greekouzina - The best chicken gyros about, with lots of other authentic Greek dishes to try.
Jaffa - A hidden gem loved by students and locals.
Enjoy a choice of grilled meats, served with rice, chips and salad.
You won't leave hungry.
Here are some of the best street food restaurants in Preston.
SpudBros have put Preston on the map for their famous jacket potatoes.
If you want authentic Thai cooking, then try Itsy's Thai Street Food.
And for the best pakoras, samosas and curry, go to Eat Indian in the city centre.
Here's more of our street food recommendations.
SMASHED Preston - The best burgers about with cocktails and retro video games to boot.
Tipsy Chef - Burgers, cocktails and salt and pepper hash browns - what more could you want?
Wings & Beer Co.
- Does pretty much what it says on the tin.
Beers, burgers and chicken wings.
And there's live sports on too.
Eat Indian - Chapatis, kebabs, pakoras, samosas and curries all ready to pick up and go.
Himalayan Monal - Authentic Indian and Nepalese food, including curry, noodles and meat dishes.
Chamo Street Food - Enjoy South American dishes like tacos, empanadas and amazing loaded fries.
Itsy's Thai Street Food - Get a taste of Thailand with a choice of authentic curries and noodle soup.
Oodles - Oodles have perfected noodles, with a choice of sauces from savoury to spicy.
The 3 Monkey's Sandwich Bar - Don't be fooled by the name.
This isn't your average sandwich shop.
They're famous for their delicious chicken and rice boxes - and it's right by campus.
Falafel Express - Enjoy a falafel from the famous green van.
(Meat options available.)
Oodles - Try a vegetable stir fry in a range of sauces, from savoury to spicy.
SpudBros - Serving possibly the most famous jacket potatoes in the world, there's lots of toppings to choose from.
(Meat options available).
The Hot Potato Tram - Another brilliant baked potato van, with a great choice of toppings.
The 3 Monkeys Sandwich bar - Enjoy one of their famous rice boxes with veggies instead.
Want a quick meal you know you'll love?
Preston has all your favourite high street restaurants.
There's a Pizza Express in the city centre.
There's a Turtle Bay , serving it's signature Caribbean food and cocktails.
There's also a German Doner Kebab delivering doner meat deliciousness.
And, of course, there's a Nando's (there's two actually).
Need a coffee to-go?
Looking for a lunch spot?
There are lots of cafes around the city centre to get a brew and a bite to eat.
Rise serves delicious and nutritious food, with an aesthetically-pleasing, pastel decor.
Delishus by Saladishy is another healthy lunch restaurant in Preston, with lots of veggie and vegan options.
Holy Grounds has achieved cult status for its coffee and doughnuts combo - just what you need on a study break.
If you've got a sweet tooth, then you’ll be spoilt for choice in Preston.
Kaspa’s Desserts has a mouth-watering selection of waffles, milkshakes and ice cream sundaes in an American-style diner.
Roccos is a fun dessert parlour with all your favourites, from cookie dough to soda floats.
Indulge at Haute Dolci with a fine choice of chocolate fondue and cakes.
Shannon  top 5 meals on a student budget

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/student-life/entertainment-nightlife:
The city comes alive at night.
Preston has something for everyone, no matter what night of the week it is.
Check out some of the best clubs and bars in Preston.
There's a variety of bars in Preston, giving big city vibes at affordable prices.
All Hopes No Promises is a quirky little cocktail bar with amazing drinks and decor.
There's a Revolution bar in Preston where you can get a student discount.
If you fancy something different, then Level Preston have activities like bowling, darts, crazy golf and laser tag.
The University of Central Lancashire does not endorse these bars.
Fancy a night out?
There are lots of clubs in Preston where you can dance into the early hours.
Baker Street is a bar and club, where you can enjoy 2-4-1 cocktails and have a twirl on the dance floor.
Baluga has a cosmopolitan feel, with fabulous cocktails and boozy brunches.
The Warehouse has three floors which play different types music including dance, R'n'B and indie.
And of course, we can't talk about clubs in Preston without mentioning Pop World - perfect for cheap drinks and cheesy tunes.
The University of Central Lancashire does not endorse these clubs.
Preston is home to some great live music venues.
The Ferret has been making a mark on the music scene since 2006.
They regularly host rock, indie and open mic nights, with beers and burgers on demand.
Blitz have a little bit of everything including big names like James Bay and Chase & Status, so keep your eye on their events.
Vinyl Tap are another great live music destination in Preston.
They're a small, intimate venue and when there's not a live band on, they play vinyl records.
Perfect for music lovers.
The University of Central Lancashire does not endorse these venues.
Check out the Students' Union for the latest events and activities taking place on campus.
From karaoke and board game socials to hip hop ping pong, there's something for everyone at the UCLan Students' Union.
Don't fancy heading into the city centre?
Eat and drink at the Lampworks on campus.
Food is served until 9pm, including an all-day breakfast.
The drinks are a great price and there are deals on every Wednesday.
Make sure you keep an eye out for their famous quiz nights and karaoke nights.
It's a great place to start your night.
Don't drink?
That's okay - there's still plenty of things to do in Preston.
You can go bowling, play mini golf, enjoy a round of laser tag or hit the track at go-karting.
If you've got a sweet tooth, you can head to a late-night dessert bar like Kaspa's or Haute Dolci .
Most of the bars in Preston also serve mocktails, so you can still go out with your friends.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/student-life/sport:
Whether you're a complete beginner, elite performer, studying sport or want to make the most of your gym membership, discover sport and physical activity at the University of Central Lancashire.
The University of Central Lancashire has an excellent reputation for delivering high-quality courses in the fields of sport, exercise sciences, coaching and leadership.
Are you a professional netball player?
Do you play for fun, or want to pick up a sport you once loved?
The University of Central Lancashire delivers high quality netball training, aimed at players of all abilities.
Table Tennis at the University of Central Lancashire provides players with a professional, high-level training programme that enable players to fulfil their sporting potential.
The University of Central Lancashire women's basketball programme is open to players of all levels.
Compete in the BUCS Leagues, train with the team or play recreationally.
Love football?
Want to keep fit and achieve your sporting potential alongside your studies?
The University of Central Lancashire women's football is open to members of all abilities.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/student-life/shopping-culture:
Whether you're a fashion enthusiast or a fan of unique finds, there are plenty of shops in Preston to meet your needs.
And don't forget your student card - you may be able to get a student discount.
Preston has all your favourite high street stores to update your wardrobe.
The shops in Preston are close together and can be found along Fishergate.
On the street, you can find JD Sports, Office, Next and M&S.
In St George's shopping centre there's a H&M, New Look, River Island and more.
Fishergate Shopping Centre has a large Primark and T K Maxx.
Most of these shops have a student discount, so don't forget your student ID.
There's a few vintage shops in Preston, so you can shop sustainably and find unique pieces for your wardrobe.
Retrogue is a vintage store just off Fishergate.
They stock lots of cool men and women's clothes, perfect for your uni wardrobe.
The Vintage Boutique is a small store stocking a selection of vintage clothing, plus lots of quirky homeware and gifts too.
If you love statement jewellery, check out Karen's Collectibles in the Market Hall.
They have an eclectic mix of rings, watches and necklaces.
There are lots of beauty and wellness shops in Preston, so you can stay on top of your self-care routine.
There's a large Boots , which sells cosmetics, toiletries and hygiene products.
It also has a pharmacy if you're feeling under the weather.
You can also find Lush in the Fishergate shopping centre for handmade bath bombs, facemasks and more.
There's a Holland and Barrett for all your supplement and superfood needs.
Visit one of Preston's markets and support local retailers.
Founded in 1875, Preston Market Hall is still going strong.
It is comprised of the market hall, box market and outdoor market, so there's plenty to explore.
Inside, you'll find local butchers, fishmongers and a fruit and veg store, as well as lots of lovely cafes.
Outside, you can sift through records to find your favourite artists, or pick up a bouquet of freshly cut flowers.
It's a unique shopping experience that's not to be missed.
Looking for a cool, quirky gift?
Love supporting local businesses?
Get down to the Maker's Market, hosted on the second Saturday of every month.
There's a real range of stalls.
From handmade ceramics and stylish homeware, to potted plants and groovy prints.
And the food is amazing.
There's coffee vendors, bakers, and international street food vans.
You'll be spoilt for choice.
Hear are the nearest supermarkets and international food shops in Preston.
The Harris Museum and Art Gallery is one of the city's cultural gems and is housed in a stunning Grade I listed building.
It showcases a vast collection of art, artefacts and historical exhibits.
It also hosts regular events, workshops and performances.
Preston Minister host discussions about the big questions in life.
It is open to everyone, regardless of your faith or background.
Preston Playhouse hold productions by local and visiting drama companies, as well as tribute acts.
There's something for everyone, so make sure you check what's on.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/student-life/explore-outdoors:
Enjoy nature and adventure alongside city living in Preston.
There are parks, nature reserves and rolling hills, all within easy reach of the city centre.
Take some time away from your studies at one of Preston's many parks.
Avenham Park is popular with students.
The peaceful environment is perfect for summer picnics or evening strolls.
Stop by the Japanese gardens, or follow the River Ribble to The Continental pub for food and live music.
Moor Park is also nearby, with lots of green space and open air to enjoy.
Or head to Winckley Square in the city centre, which is a lovely Georgian garden where you can enjoy the sunshine.
We're lucky to live so close to Brockholes Nature Reserve, which is home to various species of wildlife.
There are over 250 acres to explore, including ancient woodland, rivers and lakes.
Just don't forget your wellies, because it can get muddy.
Nestle down in one of the bird watching look-outs, where you can try a range of binoculars and telescopes.
When you're feeling hungry, call into the floating visitor centre for a bite to eat.
Take your wheels for a spin on Preston's 21 miles of Guild Wheel paths through parks and woodlands.
It's just 10 minutes from campus.
For a more challenging trail, head to the Forest of Bowland to enjoy miles of wide open spaces and breathtaking views.
Don't own a bike?
Hire one from our bike hub and take a look at local cycling routes.
Enjoy everything Lancashire has to offer, with great public transport links from Preston.
Ramble through the countryside on the White Coppice trail, as you overlook moors and reservoirs.
Climb Pendle Hill and take in spectacular views from its 1,827ft summit.
Follow the Tolkein Trail through the Forest of Bowland and experience hobbit country first hand.
Blackpool is just 25 minutes away from Preston on the train.
There's lots to see and do in this iconic seaside town.
Blackpool Pleasure Beach is the biggest theme park in the North West with lots of thrilling rides.
Visit the arcades to play your favourite games and (hopefully) win some prizes.
Or, just pack a bag and enjoy a picnic by the sea.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/student-voice/jose-favourite-things-preston:
Jose shares his top five favourite things to do in Preston when he is not studying.
Preston is a small city and you might be wondering what can I do when I’m not in lectures or studying?
Well, the answer is a lot!
In my experience, small cities such as Preston offer the advantages of city life without the hecticness.
Whether you want to experience the student nightlife, shopping or want to get out in nature, there’s something for everyone.
Keep on reading my guide to all things to student life in Preston….
Low cost of living and no need for transport The cost of living was a big factor when I was choosing a university.
Living in Preston is very cheap, with plenty of budget supermarkets, shops and many student offers on nights out, for example.
The lack of need for transport is a big plus, everything really is just a short walking distance from campus.
So if you need to do your weekly food shop, you’ll never be far regardless of where you choose to live and won’t need to pay for taxis or buses if you don’t want to.
Large parks and green spaces Something that isn’t talked about a lot when it comes to Preston is the large parks and green spaces it has.
Avenham and Miller Parks, which isn’t far from campus is the perfect destination for a walk or to relax on a sunny day.
This is my personal favourite place to go as it’s such a large park and I really love the Japanese garden it has too.
Another highlight is the Guild Wheel which is a 21-mile circular route that can be explored on bike or on foot.
Great transport links The bus and railway stations are both just a short walk away from the centre of campus and can take you to other cities such as Manchester and Liverpool in under an hour.
This is really convenient for days outs and when you want to explore further afield.
Shopping and eating out Preston is home to two large shopping centres (St Georges and Fishergate Shopping Centres), where you’ll find all your high street favourites.
Best of all, both shopping centres are within walking distance of campus (so never far to walk with shopping bags!).
Preston also has a large variety of restaurants and takeaways from around the world, many of which are unique to the city itself.
Clubs and Societies
As a student at UCLan, I have enjoyed extra advantages due to the university having many sports clubs and societies.
This has enabled me to try a lot of new sports and social activities such as kayaking and swimming, which I had not done for many years before coming to Preston.
However, the best part of it was the people I’ve met and become friends with.
I was very surprised at how easy it was to communicate with everyone and they even helped me to improve my English.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/student-voice/my-favourite-things-to-do-in-preston:
Many people think it’s good to live in big cities in the UK, but I always like to live in small cities to have a peaceful life.
My choice to be at UCLan fulfilled my dream, and I would like to share my top favourite things to do in Preston.
1.
Visiting large parks and green spaces I have explored the many parks and green spaces in Preston, including Moor Park, Avenham and Miller Park.
My favourite park in Preston is Avenham and Miller Park as I think it is the ideal place for a peaceful walk; a large space filled with green trees and colourful flowers, landscaped alongside the River Ribble.
It also includes the Japanese Rock Garden that is very exotic.
Moreover, there is also a pond where you can sit and enjoy the peace around with a scenic view, as well as the Pavilion Café, which offers coffee, tea, refreshing drinks and some food.
2.
Eating in Indian restaurants If you are looking for authentic vegetarian Indian food that is tasty and at the same time is great value for money, then I would definitely recommend RK Dining.
In my experience, this restaurant is pocket-friendly and serves delicious snacks and main Indian dishes.
The restaurant only serves vegetarian food with some vegan options.
The best part is you can get the festival’s special items in this restaurant; I bought Indian sweets on the occasion of Diwali.
Eating the traditional festival dishes in a foreign country is bliss and worth trying for me.
There is also another restaurant called Ranas spice which serves vegetarian Indian food.
3.
Visiting Hindu temples There are many temples in Preston.
I went to the Gujarat Hindu Society and Community Centre in my free time, which I first went to at the festival of Navratri and played Garba with the Indian women.
Their kindness and enthusiasm threw away my homesickness feeling.
I always like to experience a peaceful environment especially when I feel stressed out.
It is one of the largest temples in Lancashire; a well-maintained place of tranquillity where you can worship Lord Rama, Krishna, Ganesh, Durga Matha.
4.
Enjoying nightlife Preston offers a good nightlife with several bars and nightclubs that you can visit with your friends.
I always like to capture pictures of roads and lights.
I also like to go for a short walk after dinner, and I found Preston to be the best and safe place for this.
If you don’t want to drink as part of our nightlife, there are plenty of places to go for alcohol-free entertainment, such as Level for Bowling and plenty of dessert places to eat.
Overall, it has been a great experience living in Preston, and the student-friendly environment is extremely supportive of living an economical lifestyle.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/student-stories/janes-experience-students-union:
Jane Constance shares her experience joining and being involved in activities with the Students' Union.
From music theatre and drama, to equestrian, swimming and trampolining; no matter what interests you, the SU has a whole range of activities, clubs, societies and events that you can be involved in.
Entering this university, I discovered that there were a lot of volunteering opportunities in which all students are eligible.
I am the chair of the Singing Society and the secretary of the Disabled Student’s Society, where working collaboratively is key!
Last year, as part of the Mauritian society I had the opportunity to lead a flag raising ceremony event at the occasion of the Mauritius Independence Day; this was a fabulous experience to plan the event and I even developed some organisation skills at the end.
A couple of days ago, alongside some singing society members, I launched a mental health awareness music video to support students during lockdown and remind them that, despite the current situation, they are not alone!
We had a fun time reuniting the singers, working on harmonies and editing the video.
All the students put their heart and soul into the song!
As the society's chair, I am proud that this video is touching so many people at the university and beyond.
With the chance to volunteer with UCLan, you will obtain a lot of skill sets which can be transferred into different jobs in your chosen career.
A few types of skill sets that this award centres on are; problem solving/conflict management, team/self-directed work, leadership and professionalism.
On the SU website under volunteering opportunities, there are a list of events available for you to volunteer with; such as craft and food fair, zero waste or even secret garden volunteers.
When signing up to the volunteering opportunity on the SU website, you are entitled to receive the Livesey Award when graduating; a volunteering certificate given by the SU, which you could include on your CV in the future.
If you enjoy public speaking or writing articles, you have the golden opportunity to get involved with Pulse Media, the university's media sector, with television, radio and even school’s newspaper.
This will not just be an exciting opportunity to make friends, learn new skills in relation to the radio and tv sector but it will improve confidence and communication skills incredibly!
Each year in the middle of February, the SU organise elections which gives the opportunity to students to vote for new leaders who they wish will represent their views.
It includes the full-time officers, student council reps, school presidents, and clubs/societies committee.
Nominating for a role within your student lead groups will be a memorable adventure as representing others is a way to develop yourself.
The committee works together to develop the group and ensure members are having a great experience.
You will also receive training to help you run your group as well as having access to support from the union activities staff team.
There is so much to come and if you want to be part of the positive changes happening on campus, make sure you nominate yourself for a role!
The Students' Union is continually improving its resources for students.
Recently, the team put in place an amazing project called RAG which stands for ‘Raising and Giving’.
The main purpose is to help students to understand why fundraising is important today, for example, helping a disabled charity association or giving food to elderly in a care home that can help them live a happier life!
Overall, my experience of being part of the Students' Union family is fantastic; I learn so much every day, have obtained lifelong skills and amazing friendships!
The non-judgmental, non-discriminatory and friendly attitude of the team makes the SU so wonderful and unique and I would strongly advise all students to make the most out of the opportunities; it’s so beneficial for your personal development and involvement in university with all the perks!

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/support/faqs:
Here you'll find answer to questions about student support, the library, Blackboard and more.
Answers cover topics from accessing emails and files from home to seeking specialist help.
Please note, some of the links below will take you to our Student Hub .
You will only be able to access the Student Hub with a student email address and password.
We have a dedicated student support team who are here for you throughout your student journey.
We are available within the Lower Ground Floor of the Student Centre for all of your support needs.
We are your first point of contact for all non-academic enquiries.
This could include disability disclosures, student funding concerns and more.
We will ensure your queries are heard and that we get the right answers or support in place for you.
Our Student Support Hub provides advice and information on a wide range of topics relevant to current and students.
If you have any questions before you start, you can contact our Student Support Team by email .
Our Student Centre based at Preston Campus houses a range of support services available to all students.
At the Student Centre, you will be able to receive help and support on all aspects of university life.
From accommodation , finance , and academic queries, to wellbeing , inclusive support and more.
The Student Support team is the first point of contact for any non-academic support.
The team is available for a face-to-face support across all our Campuses (Preston, Burnley and Westlakes) and can help you with wide range of issues and queries including financial advice, international student advice as well as general student life queries.
If you ever find yourself in a difficult situation or have any questions, come speak to the Student Support team.
You can contact them via email or phone on 01772 891828.
The Student Support team also offers a Student Support drop-in and International Student Support drop-in at Preston Campus.
The Student Support drop-in gives you an opportunity to disclose any information in a private and confidential space and receive support and advice about wellbeing, mental health, disability and general university life.
The International Student Support drop-in provides chance for international students to drop-in and ask our friendly team any general questions you might have about your visa and working restrictions, academic support, life in the UK or anything else.
The International Student Support drop-in is also a chance for international students to make new friends from all over the world, play games and take part in fun activities.
The Student Support drop-in provides an alternative space for students to discuss any issues or concerns that they may have in a confidential, non-judgemental, one-to-one setting.
We offer support and guidance on a variety of issues including mental health, wellbeing, inclusive support and any other issues that may be impacting your personal or academic life
The drop-in is based on the upper ground floor of the Student Centre and no appointment is required.
For more information on our opening times as well as specialist drop-in sessions please visit the Student Hub.
To help us give you and our course team the support you need please complete the inclusive support disclosure form to let us know about any disability, long-term health condition, SpLD or mental health condition.
This helps ensure support is put in place for the best experience throughout your studies.
More information can also be found on our inclusive support pages .
You will be able to access lots of support to develop your study skills.
We have a study skills section on the Student Hub with information about the support we offer.
Study skills cover a range of capabilities from digital and technical, to reading, writing and inclusion.
Have a look at our money advice and support webpages .
It explains what funding you may be entitled to, and what additional funding is available including information and guidance about managing your money.
You can also take a look at our student fees, funding and finance frequently asked questions for more specific queries.
Our professionally run Pre-School Centre (situated at our Preston Campus) offers a nurturing and high-quality environment for children aged 6 months to 4 years.
For more details, including opening times, please visit our Pre-School Centre webpage .
If you have financially dependent children, you may be eligible Dependants Bursary.
Visit our scholarships and bursaries webpage to find out more.
All our senior staff have been supported to undertake specific training to support students who are feeding their babies, and we also feature dedicated breastfeeding facilities across the campus.
We have a dedicated International Student Support Team who are here for you throughout your student journey.
We want to ensure the transition to the life in the UK goes as smoothly as possible so we offer pre-arrival workshops to introduce you to the support services available to you and other useful information about making the most of your time here.
We also offer a free airport transfer service during the welcome period to help you get to your campus.
We understand that moving to a new country can be challenging if you are adjusting to a new environment and culture, learning a new language, and feeling far away from loved ones.
If you want to chat, meet new people, or have any questions, come along to speak with our Student Support team on the Lower Ground Floor of the Student Centre where you can also enjoy the Student Support Lounge to take a break between lectures and find new interests, including reading from our Honesty Library.
Our Careers Service are are a friendly, professional and experienced team with expertise in a wide range of areas.
We offer services including:
Current students can visit the careers section on the Student Hub for further information.
Please view our Letter Requests Student Hub page for guidance.
Our on campus Medical Centre can help if you are feeling ill, want contraception advice, are concerned about your sexual health, or need information on vaccinations for your trip abroad.
You will need to register with the Medical Centre and this webpage will direct you through the process and give you further information, including how to make an appointment with a doctor, our opening hours, plus signposts to ordering prescriptions, family planning and out of hours emergency contacts.
Current students can find out more about the University of Central Lancashire library on our Student Hub.
This includes how to access the online library, search for books, library opening times and much more.
Preston library building provides comfortable, flexible study spaces.
There are lots of excellent learning resources, extensive collections of information sources and access to expert help and advice .
You can get all the UCLan library and IT support you need.
Whether you want to find out more about library facilities, IT and email issues, printing facilities on campus, resetting passwords, questions about your student card, or any other support issue, this will help.
If you're a current student, you can visit My Library Account online to renew any books you have borrowed (online), check the details of any books you have borrowed over the last 12 months, or to check the status of any book reservations you have made.
You can also do a Library Search, which is searchable via mobile devices.
Please check the Student Hub for guidance on accessing your reading list .
Cite Them Right will help you to reference many different types of source material in a variety of referencing styles.
Sources covered include books, chapters, journals, digital and internet, media and art, research, legal materials, Government documents and communications.
It also provides answers to common questions about referencing and helpful guidance to keep you on track.
Visit how to access Cite Them Right it also includes information about further online resources available.
Microsoft Office 365 is free for all of our students.
When you study with us, you'll have a free subscription to Office 365, giving you access at home on up to five devices.
You will also have access to OneDrive and Office online.
Follow the instructions on this page to get your free copy of Microsoft Office and install on your devices.
You’ll find our Accessing the Network page on the Student Hub really useful.
Whether you’re accessing the University network for the first time, need some support with a new password, or want to know how to access your emails and files remotely, this page will guide you in the right direction.
For UCLan email, go to Office 365 email to login.
Enter your full UCLan email address (e.g.
another@uclan.ac.uk) and your UCLan password.
Remote Access allows you to log into the University network from any location off campus.
From there you’ll be able to access your files, your timetable, and common services and software applications such as your emails, Blackboard and Turnitin.
Before you can use Remote Access you’ll need to install a software application called Citrix Receiver onto your PC or other device.
Once you have done this you’ll be able to access the University network by entering your username and password.
Find out more about Remote Access and how to download Citrix Receiver on your machine.
Blackboard is a web-based course management system designed to allow you to participate in classes delivered online or use online materials and activities to complement face-to-face teaching.
If you’re using a computer at the University, once you have logged on to the UCLan network, launch the Firefox browser.
From the Student Support Hub you can click on the Student Login (Blackboard) link which will take you directly to the Student Portal.
If you’re off campus, you can log in to Blackboard via the website .
See the logging into Blackboard off campus guide .
The Blackboard Support Site for Students offers a substantial amount of information to help you find your way around Blackboard.
For more information about Blackboard support, the Blackboard environment, Blackboard assessment, course tools, Turnitin Assessments and more, please visit this page.
Please note when using Blackboard, we recommend that you use Mozilla Firefox as your browser.
This is available from your Windows taskbar or from the Start menu.
If you're currently studying in Cyprus, you can access the Student Support Hub.
You can use the links on the right to select the appropriate support information for you.
You will also find the Blackboard help guides which are designed for all those studying using Blackboard.
This includes staff who are registered as students.
Once you have logged on to the UCLan Cyprus network you can go to the "The Student Portal" .
This will take you straight to your Blackboard page.
Please note: when you log out of Blackboard you will see the Welcome/Log in page.
If you want to log in again then you need to use your UCLan Cyprus network username and password.
We try not to make changes to your timetable, but sometimes this is unavoidable.
It's really important that we have your up to date contact details to be able to inform you when something does have to change.
Here's how we'll get in touch:
Current students can view their own personalised timetable online .
You will be asked to log in with your UCLan username and password to gain access.
If you don't have your username and password, you’ll need to complete your online enrolment.
You can use MazeMap for specification direction to a building or room.
You can find your building's code on the Preston Campus map .
Room numbers are based on floors so numbers 001-099 are on the ground floor, 100-199 are on the first floor, 200-299 on the second floor, and so on.
You can view the academic calendar on our website .
Current students can visit our key dates page on the Student Hub where you’ll find the academic calendar, term dates and all other key dates for the University of Central Lancashire.
These include the start of term, Welcome Week, examinations, formal publication of results dates and dates of graduation.
Please be aware that some courses operate a non-standard calendar and you can check with your School or Academic Registry if this affects your course.
All assessment results can be viewed securely online by using MyUCLan.
Our assessment webpage on the Student Hub will also answer any queries you may have about assessment and results at the University of Central Lancashire.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/student-stories/sophie-mooiman:
Applying to university is stressful enough without having to worry about arranging any disability requirements that you may need as well.
As a type one diabetic, I certainly understand this!
During my application process, I had to think about my exam and accommodation needs.
I was worried that the process would be long and complicated, and with my A-level exams quickly approaching, that was the last thing I wanted.
I could not have been more wrong!
While filling out the application for UCLan, I let them know that I had a disability that I would need support for.
I was then asked to fill in the online inclusive support disclosure form .
The form provided was easily accessed and clear.
I was given many opportunities to specify what I needed from UCLan in terms of my disability, and I felt satisfied that I had been able to say everything I thought was necessary.
From there, I was promptly contacted by the inclusive support team and asked to provide medical evidence.
Again, this could not have been easier.
I emailed the inclusive support team back, attaching my evidence.
Then all I had to do was wait for my exam results!
Once confirmation was given to UCLan that I was attending, I received my academic support plan from the inclusive support team.
To say it was thorough would be an understatement!
I was given absolutely everything I had asked for – this included a separate room for my exams so I could bring in food/drink, my pump and glucose monitor and any extra time I may need.
My support plan also had things I hadn’t even thought of!
This included rest breaks during my exams, should I need them, so I could get up and move around - which is beneficial for my blood sugar levels.
Any lecturers and exam invigilators would also be aware of all the adjustments at my request.
The same can be said for my accommodation, as I had chosen UCLan halls of residence.
I was supplied with a mini fridge in my room, essential for my medication, with absolutely no problems.
I had never felt so relieved that the entire process from the start of my application to now (after completing my first set of exams) had gone so smoothly.
Contacting the inclusive support team is extremely easy.
I know that I can always adjust my support plan or get in touch for further support- that alone fills me with confidence as I continue my studies at UCLan

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/student-stories/harry-snelson:
Starting university can be an anxious time, and having additional needs can make this a bit more difficult.
Before starting university I had been referred to be assessed for ADHD and ASD.
I had a couple of assessments at college which resulted in me having extra time in my exams and additional learning support at college.
This had all been put into my UCAS application to make sure I got support during my time at university.
This has been very helpful as support has been on hand through email, phone or Teams if I ever need it both while I'm here and even before I started.
During the summer before I joined UCLan, the inclusive support team offered for me to attend the STAR (Student Transition and Residential) programme.
This allowed me to attend a residential on campus for 3 days in the summer.
During the residential we had a campus and library tour, we met inclusive support officers, found out about services at the university and also had the chance to have a small tour of the city which ended at Avenham Park.
This really helped me as I was able to become more familiar with the campus and meet other students with various additional needs.
This was helpful as I knew then that I wasn't alone.
As well as the residential they had multiple different online sessions over 6 weeks before starting in September such as quizzes, workshops, competitions, exploring facilities and more.
When I started university, I was very nervous about getting lost and being late to classes.
During welcome week I was offered orientation support with a Student Wellbeing Ambassador who helped show me the way around campus.
Once I had settled in and knew my way to my buildings I no longer needed the support as the campus didn’t feel as big as it had previously done.
During the first semester of my first year the inclusive support team put me through a dyslexia test.
The results identified a specific learning difficulty where I struggle with my working memory and processing speed.
This assessment not only allowed me to gain support from within the university but also externally.
The report from the assessment allowed me to apply for Disabled Students’ Allowance (DSA).
Through the DSA I have been provided with multiple different software programs to my life easier and also extra study skills support sessions.
The software helps me with time management, workloads, and summarising large pieces of text.
This helps me tackle my assignments, revision and more.
All this support has allowed me to be at the same level as others on my course and allowing me to achieve the best grades I can.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/student-stories/bethan-accessed-support-as-a-student:
BSc (Hons), Professional Policing student, Bethan shares the support she has found at the University from financial to wellbeing.
I have been studying at UCLan for a number of years now and the support I’ve been able to access during both my undergraduate and postgraduate degrees has been a huge help to me, academically and personally.
While I’ve always found support easy to access whenever I have needed it, the new Student Centre makes it even easier, as it acts like a central hub where all the services are under one roof.
During my time here, I’ve accessed academic support including study support sessions, which aid in referencing, as well as writing workshops which helped me to get up to speed on university study.
I’ve also reached out to the Counselling team, as well as Wellbeing support, something I was initially hesitant to admit I needed at the time.
However, upon talking to the team I felt immediately at ease and no longer worried about reaching out for help, as everything was so discreet and confidential.
There was also a time following a bereavement I needed mitigating circumstances for my course work, something I was able to sort quickly.
During my postgraduate degree, I needed to access financial support.
The advisors were excellent in helping me or signposting to relevant local and national resources available.
Finance is a common concern with postgraduate students, however the one thing I would stress is people are there to help and you are not on your own.
Looking back, without the support available, I don’t think I would have been able to pursue my course and everything has been delivered in a fast and exceptional manner.
My take home point for everyone is explore the support services available at UCLan, should you need them now or potentially in the future.
Whatever you need, there will always be someone to help or point you in the right direction and utilizing all the resources available takes any extra pressure of being a student off you

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/student-voice/emma-wellbeing-support:
Emma shares how she accessed wellbeing support at University including adjustments and assistance.
During my time at the University, I have been able to access support via various teams when I’ve needed them, the main one being the Wellbeing team.
They were able to assist me with getting things in place such as Disabled Students’ Allowance (DSA) and exam adjustments, both of which were a huge help to me in my studies.
Over the last year, the team have still been on hand to support me and other students through online meetings via Microsoft Teams or by phone.
It has been great to still have access to the same level of support, despite the pandemic.
Personally, I have found the fortnightly online meetings with my counsellor an advantage.
It has meant that I have been able to receive the support I need from the comfort of my room, taking away any potential anxiety that travelling may bring.
I have also had the opportunity to attend online wellbeing sessions, ran weekly on Microsoft Teams.
This has given me the chance to learn strategies to help with managing stress and getting good quality sleep.
There have been further sessions on mindfulness weekly, which has been an ideal time to relax.
If you find yourself needing extra support at university, don’t be afraid to speak up.
Whatever your issue, there is always somebody to advise and guide you.
The support I’ve had throughout my studies has helped me gain confidence in myself and to complete my course, especially with additional challenges I have faced through the years.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/student-stories/sophie-jade:
Now in her third year, BSc (Hons) Psychology student Sophie-Jade Woods is enjoying every minute of her time at the University of Central Lancashire.
Choosing what to study at university is a difficult decision, but for Sophie-Jade it was always going to be psychology .
“I have a love of studying people and understanding their minds, what makes them do things and why.
Psychology is very broad and there is always something in there that sparks your interest”.
And after seeing the BSc (Hons) Psychology course at UCLan, she decided there was no better place to further that interest.
“The course offers so many options that allows you to tailor it to what you enjoy.
The flexibility in choosing your modules, not just in second and third year but also in first year, is great.
It allows you to explore your interests.”
Since joining, Sophie-Jade hasn’t looked back, being particularly impressed with the quality of the teaching.
“The teaching is exceptional, with well-delivered lectures with lots of information about the subject.
It is always great to see such passion in lecturers who love their area of expertise in Psychology.”
Sophie-Jade also speaks highly of the support UCLan offers.
”As I am deaf, I use the in-house interpreting support team that is part of ‘ Inclusive Support’ , and this has been wonderful.
UCLan and the Inclusive Support team have never failed to meet my needs and I am always included in my lectures and seminars.
As a deaf person, I will always have obstacles in my path, but this will never get in the way of me achieving great things.”
" It is always great to see such passion in lecturers who love their area of expertise in Psychology.
Now in her third year now, Sophie-Jade has big plans for further study in the future.
“I am hoping to come back and continue my education at UCLan by doing a masters .
After that it would be my dream to do a PhD .” And while Sophie is looking at life after graduation, for those just starting university, she offers this advice.
“Work hard, but also play hard.
It is very important to balance out your education and your social life.
Always make sure you have fun too!”

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/student-voice/jane-why-choose-us:
Jane Constance, MSc Human Resource Management student, explains why she chose UCLan as her university.
Since I was raised with such amazing and devoted parents, I never focused on the fact that I couldn’t see; I just developed my strength and started music at a very young age.
I have always had a strong feeling to help people who are also in my situation, in advocating for the rights of persons with disabilities.
I am a singer and musician from Mauritius, and am known for winning The Voice Kids in France in 2015.
Since then, I have released two French albums, which convey messages of peace, perseverance and positive attitude; messages that are very dear to my heart being born blind.
As an explorer, I wanted to challenge myself to study Law overseas, as well as the challenge of studying away from home; a milestone to overcome, especially for a blind student.
I chose to study at UCLan after plenty of research, finding out that it is a safe place for disabled students; where each and every person is empowered and supported regardless of their difference.
Reaching Preston after a long 12-hour flight, I was impressed by all the facilities provided for disabled students and the warm welcome I received.
My technology and inclusive adviser are both very kind and willing to help.
I also couldn't imagine myself walking around campus without the unconditional support of the well-being team.
Since I was not exposed to white canes in my country due to various accessibility issues, I had the chance to be provided with Mobility training to help me move around campus independently.
I also use a talking GPS which helps me to know where I am on campus.
The School of Justice is a really friendly team of staff and students.
Their unconditional support has really helped me throughout my academic journey.
My biggest problem at the moment is to access the University library website.
Fortunately, I am fully supported by my technology adviser to use a different braille software to make the system easier!
After spending two weeks at UCLan, I had already joined various societies, where I easily found my place between sighted people; I am honoured and glad to be the chair of the Singing Society, where I met lovely friends who share common interests, and I am also the secretary of the Disabled Students Society, a community which I really enjoy being part of, supporting each other through our ups and downs.
I admire the SU as everyone is openminded and non-judgemental.
I feel that my disability was neither a difficulty nor an apprehension as the team simply welcomed me with open arms.
I would strongly encourage prospective students to join UCLan.
No matter who you are or where you come from, the university has always something for you.
You will be studying in a safe environment and supported in your career aspirations.
If you are a shy person, don't worry too much.
Tutors will always help you to give the best of your abilities and you will be able to overcome those fears and strengthen your personality.
University life is not easy, but hard work, determination, self-belief and adopting a positive mindset are key to success!
Above all, enjoy the course you study and be proud of who you are!

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/student-stories/charlotte-shares-support-studying-with-a-disability:
Charlotte Main, MSc Forensic Science student shares the amazing support she received studying with a disability.
Throughout my time at UCLan, I have needed support with both my wellbeing and the academic side too.
Having hypermobility (a joint/muscle disability) can mean that some days I am on crutches, unable to concentrate due to pain or end up not being able to get out of bed.
I also have dyslexia (and a few other bits too) which can make learning difficult at times.
However, getting support was so easy and was available by just sending an email.
As soon as you have organised all the information about your disabilities / learning difficulties or anything else under the support category, you will be given one person that will deal with everything for you, which makes life very easy.
By having the support put into place for me, I didn’t have to tell each lecturer individually about my disability or worry about how it could affect my attendance.
Not once did a lecturer question how in the morning I was without any walking aids and in the afternoon, I was on crutches.
Instead, they would make sure I was ok to be there, following all the guidance my support team had put into place to ensure my learning wouldn’t be impacted in any way.
" I had struggled with a hidden disability throughout my educational life, but that all changed when I came to UCLan and I was able to access the amazing support available here.
Away from the regular day-to-day lectures, tutorials, practicals and seminars, support was put in place for my exams too.
Before I started university, exams would be a worry for me, especially what would happen if I started to have issues with my disability.
Whereas at UCLan, I had a full action plan, so I only had to worry about the content of my exam.
All of the above has also applied for me as I’ve gone on to my postgraduate degree and was one of the reasons I chose to continue my studies here.
Knowing that I had easily accessible support, be it for in person classes or online, really put me at ease.
It has given me the freedom to concentrate on learning and not worry about how my disability effects that.
Overall, I am so grateful for the support available here.
It has made my studies much easier, less stressful and my overall student experience has been so much more enjoyable.
It has been a huge weight lifted from me to not have to worry about the challenges life has thrown my way.
Never be afraid to ask for help during your studies here, there’s lots available to help you reach your potential!

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/centres/volunteering/register:
Volunteering can be one of the most rewarding and enriching life experiences you will ever have.
It's also a great way to improve your chances of getting a job.
Discover your next volunteering opportunity
If you're a student with us you can register with us to become a volunteer.
There are lots of volunteering opportunities and you can apply for any vacancies that interest you.
We'll also get in touch regularly to let you know about the other volunteering and learning opportunities on offer.
With over 500 volunteering opportunities on offer, you’re bound to find something that inspires you.
You could help lead projects in areas such as:
You'll gain skills and experience in areas directly related to your interests or career aspirations.
CVCL is an exemplary team that enriches the university experience by promoting volunteerism and leadership.
It empowers students to become active and engaged citizens, contributing positively to society while pursuing their studies.
What volunteering activity have you been involved in?
When I arrived at UCLan, I registered with CVCL and found opportunities that aligned with my passions, such as the Global Leadership Programme and volunteering at St.
Catherine’s Hospice in Preston.
What do you think are the benefits of volunteering as a UCLan student?
Volunteering offers a profound opportunity to give back to the community, develop new skills, and forge meaningful connections.
Through my volunteer experiences, I have found a deep sense of fulfilment and happiness in contributing to the well-being of those in need, particularly individuals within our community who require additional support.
These experiences have reinforced my belief in the power of community and underscored the importance of giving back.
What advice would you give other students who would like to get involved in volunteering whilst they study?
I encourage my fellow students to embrace volunteering opportunities that align with their passions and availability while studying.
Engaging in volunteer work not only allows you to make a positive impact but also provides experiences that will shape your future and create a lasting legacy of service and compassion.
Volunteering gives you the space to learn and give.
It’s like a hobby you don’t have to pay for.
You can volunteer with people working towards a similar goal and help other people in some way.
Don’t be put off from volunteering because you’re not from the immediate area.
CVCL offers so many different kind of opportunities.
I have volunteered with Let's Grow Preston, Brockholes Nature Reserve and Action Tutoring.
I have also undertaken training with the Samaritans and plan to start volunteering with them in the near future.
Volunteering enables you to learn from experiences in a patient and forgiving environment.
You can give something back, you are always appreciated and organisations are grateful for the time you give.
Similarly, volunteering has allowed me to benefit from good quality training opportunities, especially online training platforms.
It can be daunting getting involved in community-based volunteering in:
a community that you are not from and
b.
a community where you do not plan on staying.
Although Daisy has engaged in a lot of volunteering within the Preston area, the volunteering she engages in with Action Tutoring is remote and with young people aged 10-11 years from London.
Similarly, when she starts volunteering with Samaritan’s she will be answering calls from people in crisis nationally.
I am a Global Leadership Development programme Facilitator.
I volunteer alongside a diverse group of passionate facilitators.
I had the privilege of guiding participants through a transformative leadership course.
Witnessing their growth and the meaningful conversations in classrooms was truly inspiring.
What skills did you develop whilst volunteering?
As a facilitator, my goal was to create an environment where each participant felt comfortable to explore their potential.
By collaborating with fellow facilitators, we tailored our approach to ensure every individual walked away with valuable insights and practical skills.
Seeing the impact of the three days course that we made together was a powerful reminder of the importance of teamwork, communication skills, and adaptability.
This experience resonates deeply with my journey as a final-year medical student.
I am committed to fostering a similar impact in my clinical practice.
The leadership skills I’ve honed: active listening, collaborative problem-solving, and compassionate communication are integral to patient care.
As I transition into my role as a future doctor, these experiences will serve as a foundation for delivering holistic and patient-centred care.
How do you think that volunteering will support you in your future career?
Becoming a Facilitator has reinforced my belief that leadership and medicine are deeply intertwined.
Both require a commitment to continuous learning, an openness to diverse perspectives, and a dedication to making a positive difference in the lives of others.
I’m excited to carry forward these lessons into my medical career.
Even small roles can lead to unexpected growth.
Choose something meaningful to you, and you’ll gain not just skills and experience, but also confidence, friendships, and a stronger sense of who you are.
Volunteering is one of the most rewarding parts of university — it’s about giving back while building the person you want to become.
What motivated you to get involved in volunteering?
Zain explains that his motivation stemmed from a desire to make the most of university life.
“I wanted to build skills, connect with people, learn beyond the scope of my degree, and contribute meaningfully to causes and projects I care about.”
Volunteering provided a space for personal growth, leadership, and the chance to be part of something bigger than himself.
What type of volunteering work did you do?
Over several years, Zain embraced a wide range of opportunities.
He served as a Student Mentor and Course Representative, supported the NHS as a student voice, facilitated the Global Leadership Development Programme, and presented at careers fairs for local schools and colleges.
He also led research initiatives and worked with charities to support the local community.
Each role allowed him to contribute in different ways while developing a broad skill set that complemented his academic journey.
Have you noticed any personal changes or growth as a result of volunteering?
Absolutely — the impact has been significant.
“Volunteering has shaped my confidence, leadership, and sense of responsibility,” Zain shares.
“I’ve developed skills in communication, organisation, and working with people from all walks of life.”
He also discovered he was capable of much more than he initially believed.
Taking on responsibility helped build his confidence, and the experiences opened doors to new opportunities he might not have accessed otherwise.
How did you balance volunteering with school or other commitments?
Managing time was a challenge, but Zain approached it with strategy.
“Fitting everything in with university deadlines and responsibilities took planning.
I had to be selective about what I committed to and stay organised to keep things manageable.”
By focusing on roles that aligned with his personal interests and long-term goals, he found it easier to stay motivated and balance both volunteering and academics effectively.
What advice would you give to other students interested in volunteering?
Zain’s advice is both simple and powerful:
“Don’t be afraid to try something new.
Choose something meaningful to you, and you’ll gain skills, friendships, and a deeper understanding of your strengths.”
For Zain, volunteering has been a transformative part of university life.
It is a chance to give back while discovering who he wants to become.
Once you start volunteering, make sure you register with CVCL and log your hours on your volunteering account.
You could then achieve the following awards:
If you want to volunteer with children or vulnerable adults, you'll need to get a Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) check.
A DBS check is a way for organisations to check your criminal record, to help decide whether you are a suitable person to volunteer for them.
Most organisations will carry out their own DBS checks, but some cannot afford to do this, so CVCL can undertake the check on their behalf.
Complete our online form to request a CVCL DBS check.
This allows the us to start the DBS process.
You'll then need to follow these steps:
Please note that any identity documents you provide must be original documents.
We cannot accept photocopies, photographs or scanned documents.
A DBS check can take up to 6 weeks to process, so please be patient.
Once you have received your DBS certificate, check for any highlighted issues.
If there are none, you can then inform the host organisation that you can start volunteering with them.
Your host organisation may ask to see your DBS certificate.
Please don’t forget to log your volunteering hours .
If you receive your DBS certificate and there are convictions or cautions listed, please do not be discouraged.
This does not automatically exclude you from volunteering.
Please email the CVCL Team to discuss your options further.
Yes, CVCL will require you to watch an induction video as part of the volunteering registration process.
The purpose of the induction is to ensure that you're able to carry out your volunteering roles as effectively as possible.
The induction video is less than 10 minutes and covers topics like how to get started, how to log your volunteering hours, and what awards you can achieve for volunteering.
Your volunteering is managed by you and is an opportunity to enhance your university experience.
Home students can volunteer for as many hours as you want.
However, it's important that you don't take on too much, which then leaves little time for studying.
Browse our opportunities to find something that fits in with your existing commitments.
If you are an international student studying on a tier 4 visa, please be aware that your visa states that you can only work for up to 20 hours a week.
This includes volunteering.
International students on an exchange visa are only here for one semester.
Unfortunately, you have a zero limit, so you can't undertake any volunteering.
This also includes volunteering.
So, if you do have a part-time job for 15 hours per week, you would have five hours remaining to volunteer.
If you worked part-time for 18 hours per week, then this would leave you with only 2 hours per week to volunteer.
Unfortunately, you have a zero limit, so you would not be able to volunteer.
For community-based volunteering, most organisations will provide training opportunities or at the very least, an induction.
Please make enquiries with your host organisation for further information.
CVCL offer a range of accredited Continuous Professional Development (CPD) qualifications to students who are interested in undertaking further training whilst they volunteer.
This incudes:
Qualifications are being developed regularly, so keep a look out on our learning and development webpage .
If you are volunteering with children or vulnerable adults, you may be asked to complete a DBS check.
This is a way for organisations to check your criminal record and decide whether you are a suitable person to volunteer with them.
Most organisations will carry out their own DBS checks, but some can't afford to do this.
In this situation, CVCL can undertake the check on their behalf.
To request a DBS check, please see Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) checks for more information.
Please note that DBS checks can take up to six weeks, so please be patient.
And remember, you only need one if you are working with children or vulnerable adults.
Yes, we’ve designed our volunteering opportunities so that you can volunteer regularly.
There's no limit on the amount of opportunities you sign up for - you could volunteer on a short-term basis or as a one off.
We just ask you to log your hours as you complete them.
This is so that we can keep track of how much your volunteering efforts are boosting the local economy and helping you to gain experience.
We encourage you to get involved and take advantage of opportunities throughout the summer.
Whether you want to volunteer in Lancashire or where you live out of term time, you can still log your volunteering hours.
For community-based volunteering, you are responsible for making your own transport arrangements.
Some organisations are able to reimburse their volunteers travel expenses.
Please make enquiries with your host organisation for more information.
Transport is sometimes provided to events and activities which CVCL have organised.
This will be arranged with you as and when you volunteer for these opportunities.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/advice/preston-campus-directions:
From the North or West Coast , leave the M6 at junction 32 (M55) and take Exit 1 (A6) to Preston/Garstang.
Follow the A6 to Preston and proceed through ﬁve major sets of trafﬁc lights.
Immediately after the ﬁfth set, take the right-hand lane and bear right at the next set into Moor Lane, following the signs to Liverpool.
You'll see signs for the University on this route.
From the South or East , motorways M6, M61 or M65.
Leave the M6 at Junction 29 or M61 at Junction 9 and join the M65 towards Preston, then leave the M65 at its end (Junction 1).
At the motorway terminal roundabout take the second exit.
Follow the A6 to Preston, you'll come to a set of trafﬁc lights with a large retail centre to the left.
Go straight on at this set of trafﬁc lights, and at the next set.
You'll need to move into the middle lane for the next set of trafﬁc lights to go straight on, follow Liverpool and Southport.
Continue straight through the next set of trafﬁc lights.
Move to the right-hand lane and turn right at the next trafﬁc lights, signposted for Blackpool and the University.
Our car parks require a University parking permit.
To manage the space available on campus, parking permits for students are offered on a semester-by-semester basis to those meeting the criteria.
Currently, this includes those with a declared mobility issue, those with childcare commitments and students whose daily commute to campus is over one hour.
For further advice please email the Car Parking Team .
Visitor parking
Official visitors can request a pre-booked space in Victoria car park which needs to be arranged in advance (48 hours) by the member of staff they are visiting.
Visitor spaces are limited and space is allocated on a priority basis.
Applicants attending a School open day (week-day events) or interview day should refer to paperwork provided by the School.
A limited number of pay and display facilities are available on Harrington, Victoria 2 and Foster car parks (evenings and weekends only - £1/hour to a max of £4 for a full day ticket).
For more information on University permits and visitor parking please call us .
Our Preston Campus is situated within walking distance of Preston train station.
Preston also benefits from direct rail links north and south to London, Glasgow and Manchester Airport.
For more information visit the National Rail website .
If you're walking from the train station, exit from the main entrance, turn right and then left down Corporation Street to Ringway.
Cross Ringway at the lights, turn right, then take first left down Corporation Street.
Go straight ahead and follow signs to the University.
Preston bus station provides reliable and extensive transport links in and around the city.
The number 31 bus service runs regularly from the bus station and stops outside C&T Building, which is opposite the Students’ Union.
The University is a 15-minute walk from the bus station.
Head towards Lancaster Road until you arrive at the Cenotaph.
Turn right downhill on Friargate.
Walk through pedestrianised area down to traffic lights at Ringway.
Cross Ringway and continue up Friargate.
Follow signs to University.
For more information visit the Preston Bus website and you can also download the free Preston Bus app .
National Express coaches operate to and from Preston bus station to destinations across the UK.
You can book via the National Express website.
Low-cost intercity bus travel is also available from Megabus.
Through the implementation of our Travel Plan, we are working hard to help make our campus and Preston a healthier and more sustainable place to work, study or visit.
Cycling is a great way to get to and around our campuses and we have excellent cycling facilities and schemes.
At Preston, there is a range of cycle storage options to choose from including:
You can hire a range of bikes from our bike hub at Sir Tom Finney Sports Centre .
Secure cycle lockers and cycle shelters are available at Burnley Princess Way.
A secure cycle compound is also available at Victoria Mill.
Both sites offer storage lockers and showers for cyclists.
One of the easiest ways to get to campus is on the bus.
The station is a 10-minute walk to the campus, but there are several bus stops on campus.
Burnley Campus is situated on major bus routes and buses to Preston, Blackburn and Manchester run regularly.
Please check with individual providers for pricing at it is subject to change.
Preston train station is a five to 10-minute walk away from our campus.
Preston is an inter-change station.
It's mainly served by Avanti West Coast, Northern Trains and TransPennine Express services.
There are direct trains to Blackpool, Lancaster, Blackburn, Burnley, Liverpool, and Manchester.
There are also direct trains to London, Glasgow, and Edinburgh.
Victoria Mill is a five-minute walk from Manchester Road Station, the main station in Burnley.
The station is served by services from Blackpool North or Preston to Leeds and York.
There is also an hourly service to Manchester Victoria.
Princess Way is a two-minute walk from Burnley Central Station.
Trains from Burnley Central train station run every hour to Colne, Preston and Blackpool South.
Full-time students of any age, or part-time students under the age of 25 can buy a 16-25 Railcard .
This will save 33% on all your train tickets – an average saving of over £190 per year.
If you're a part-time student aged between 26 to 30 you can apply for the 26-30 Railcard , which will save you a third off travel.
There is also a Disabled Persons Railcard available which will save 33% for both you and an adult companion.
We encourage you to use sustainable forms of transport – including cycling, walking and car sharing.
Should you need to travel by a car, here are details of parking and parking permits.
Preston Campus does have a lot of parking available but the car parks get full quickly during term-time.
This means we will have a limited number of parking permits available each semester.
UCLan car park permits are only awarded to those that meet our eligibility criteria.
This considers things such as blue badge holders, mobility, and childcare commitments.
It also looks at where you live and any course placement obligations.
To reduce solo car commuting to campus we offer a 50% reduction in permit costs and provide dedicated car sharing bays on our car parks.
There are several pay-and-display car parks in the city centre.
St.
Mary’s Car Park and Walker Street Car Park are two of the nearest to the campus.
UCLan car parks are free of charge for all users between 6pm and 7am Monday to Friday, and all day Saturday and Sunday.
Occasionally car parks may be closed at these times for events and works.
This will be clearly signed at the entrance to the relevant car parks.
If you are studying at our Victoria Mill and Princess Way buildings, you can apply for a parking permit.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/support/care-leavers:
Attending university is a big change, and we want to support you every step of the way.
For care leavers we have support available before your first day, through to graduation and beyond.
We offer a range of support, financial aid and services to help all students, with specialist support if you're a care leaver or care experienced.
You're considered to be a care leaver if:
If you currently don't meet this criteria, we may have support available for you too.
It's possible you may be an estranged student .
You can find more support available for your individual needs and circumstances on our support page.
Our Access and Widening Participation Team will come out to meet you or you can join us on campus in Preston.
We’ll introduce you to higher education, explore ways to finance your studies, explain how to:
Our Careers Team will help you come up with an action plan for the future, What courses are available to you, and what they could lead to?
The Careers Team can also help you secure part-time work while studying at university.
They'll help out with CV and application writing and interview techniques.
You can also get a flavour of student life before you start, join us for:
If you’re struggling to find the money to join us at these events, let us know and we'll be able to help.
We have a number of financial support options available for our care leavers and estranged students.
As a care leaver or estranged student you are entitled to priority access to our specialist support in areas such as finance, accommodation, disability, wellbeing, counselling, safety and mental health.
We can offer help with your pathway plan by contacting your social worker, or personal advisor if you request this.
You'll also be able to access a specialist careers appointment to discuss your career options in the context of your life circumstances in a safe and supportive environment.
Our Careers Advisers have received specialist training to ensure they support our students according to their specific needs or circumstances.
They can help you to explore your future options, whether that’s further study, a graduate level job, an internship, skills-development or even travelling.
Look out for our specialist careers support sessions advertised throughout the year.
We understand that University can a big financial commitment.
We have a number of bursaries available for our care leaver students, as well as plenty of guidance around the cost of living at university.
Care Leavers are entitled financial assistance worth £1000 per year through our bursary (subject to eligibility) .
If you qualify for the £1000 Bursary, once you graduate, you'll be able to claim an additional Graduation Bursary worth £500 .
Care Leavers who are studying on a Degree Apprenticeship can access a bursary worth £3000 for the duration of studies and is paid in instalments during Year 1.
If you choose to study with us, year-round halls accommodation is available for all our care leaver students.
Let our Student Accommodation Service know you're leaving care and they'll guide you through your options and payment plans.
You're also entitled to immediate priority accommodation if you find yourself suddenly homeless.
Contracts are normally for 42 weeks, including the Christmas and Easter breaks.
If you need accommodation for the whole year including the summer, this can be arranged.
To find out more about accommodation offerings across all our campuses, visit our accommodation page.
For any further questions regarding accommodation, you can submit an enquiry and our friendly team will get back to you.
Please note that if you are studying a degree apprenticeship with us, you won't have access to how accommodation facilities.
We understand that at different stages of your university life you may need different types of support and advice depending on your own individual needs.
Our Student Support Team are here to help you throughout your studies and can be accessed when you need them.
You can find out more about the wide range of support our teams provide on our support pages.
Existing students can visit the Student Hub to find out more about the support we can provide and further contact details.
Talk to our dedicated Care Leaver Adviser who will be happy to arrange a one-to-one appointment to talk through the support we offer care leavers.
Telephone: +44 (0)1772 893020
Email our Wellbeing Team
Speak to one of our Admissions Officers, in confidence.
They will give you more information if you need financial help to attend one of our taster sessions.
Phone: +44 (0)1772 892444
Email our Admissions Team
The Care Leaver Covenant is a promise made by the University to provide support for care leavers aged 16-25 to help them move from local authority care to living independently.
“There was no support in place, no help to get education, support myself financially, or live day to day.
There were times when I rifled through bins.
I came to UCLan with 11p in my pocket but they supported me in different aspects of finance and settling in.
They also showed me routes that I could take to help myself, such as the bursary funds.
Without the support, I probably wouldn’t have stayed at university.
Currently, the University and Students' Union are working to make life better for Care Leavers in education.
We are offering bursaries to Care Leavers and an inclusive support package helping students before they arrive, and once they are with us, allowing them to get involved with university life.
My advice for any Care Leaver would be to get involved with university and not to be afraid to ask for help – it makes you the person you want to be!”

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/support/estranged-students:
Choosing to go university can be a huge change.
For our estranged students, we want to make the transition to university life as easy as possible.
We offer a range of support, financial aid and services to help all students, with specialist support if you're an estranged student.
You're considered to be an estranged student if you are a young person studying without the support and approval of a family network.
Individuals in this position often have no contact at all with their parents, or their parents are no longer living.
If don't think this applies to you, we may have support available for you too — it's possible you may be a care leaver .
Have questions about life at university?
Our teams are available before your first day to guide you through the whole process.
We're thrilled to have you studying with us, and we want to ensure that you receive every bit of support you might need.
Circumstances can change, and we're here to help whenever you need it.
Talk to our dedicated Estranged Students Adviser who will be happy to arrange a one-to-one appointment to talk through the support we can offer you.
Email our admissions team
We have taken the Stand Alone pledge, committing to improving support for estranged students in four key areas.
The Stand Alone Pledge aims to change outcomes for estranged students, facilitating the development of better services to support you with your unique struggles.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/support/student-carers:
Do you provide unpaid support for a friend or family member due to illness, disability or an addiction?
We have a number of support options available to help you.
Around 6.5 million people in the UK are carers, looking after a parent, partner, child or friend.
Caring can be a hugely rewarding experience but sometimes carers find it challenging to take care of their own wellbeing whilst caring.
For students who have caring responsibilities, going to university can be tough.
We want to ensure that all our student carers receive as much support as possible.
You're considered to be a student carer if you care – without payment – for a friend, partner or family member with:
You are considered to be a carer if your friend, partner or family member cannot cope without your support and care.
A carer is not a parent, unless you are caring for a child meeting the criteria above.
You are not considered to be a carer if your caring responsibilities are part of voluntary placement or paid work (eg.
childminding).
This includes placements and work both inside or outside of your course.
We support students with caring responsibilities in a number of ways, for example:

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/facilities/oasis:
The Oasis Faith and Spirituality Centre is open to people of any religion or none.
It's a place for quiet reflection between studies to meet up with friends and get pastoral support.
The Oasis Faith and Spirituality Centre exists to encourage people in the pursuit and development of their faith.
We promote understanding and respect amongst members of different faiths.
It's a neutral space where the chaplaincy team offer pastoral and spiritual support for all, whether they have a faith allegiance or not.
We make every effort to encourage people on their individual spiritual journeys.
If you belong to religious faith, we can put you in touch with ministers, leaders and fellow members of your faith community.
We offer advice and information about religious groups within the University and places of worship in the Preston area.
Small groups meet at the Centre, for worship and discussion.
We have a coffee lounge open every day during the term where you can make yourself a hot drink, meet others and relax.
As well as the Chaplaincy Team, we have contacts with other faith advisers who can support you and tell you more about their particular faith.
Please contact us if you would like to get in touch with a faith adviser.
We also meet with those of different faiths in the locality through the local interfaith network.
The Team of chaplains and faith advisors consists of members drawn from a range of religious traditions.
They seek to:
The staff are available for personal and confidential pastoral consultation - religious or otherwise - to all members of the University community.
Monday to Sunday
7.30 am - midnight
The Oasis Faith and Spirituality Centre can be found in Ground floor of the Oasis building on Kirkham Street

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/facilities/worldwise:
The Worldwise Learning Centre has facilities that are open all year round and offers support, training and professional development opportunities for students, members of staff, the public and the North West business community.
Located on the first floor of Adelphi Building, the Centre offers extensive resources relating to world languages, cultures and intercultural communication, including reference books, DVDs, dictionaries, specific country files and other materials, available both in print and electronically.
It also provides a space in which to meet and make friends with speakers of different languages in a friendly environment.
Open meeting area
In the Centre visitors can meet and make friends with speakers of different languages in a welcoming environment.
Digital equipment on loan
The Centre is the place to borrow items such as digital cameras, projectors, digital voice recorders, e-pens, webcams and audio headsets.
Computers
All the PCs in the Centre are equipped with specialist language learning software, including the world-leading Rosetta Stone, as well as digital video and audio recording applications.
IPTV System
The Centre’s IPTV System offers excellent quality television and radio services on all PCs giving students access to a wide variety of international broadcasts.
Printing facilities
Printing facilities are available for all students in the open area of the Centre on the second floor.
The Worldwise Learning Centre offers students, members of staff and the public a unique opportunity to improve their foreign language skills with the help of Rosetta Stone, the world’s leading language learning software.
Rosetta Stone is offered in the Worldwise Learning Centre in 18 languages at different levels: Arabic, Chinese, Dutch, English (UK & US), French, German, Hindi, Greek, Italian, Japanese, Korean, Polish, Portuguese, Russian, Spanish, Swedish, Turkish, Vietnamese.
Rosetta Stone is a high-quality language learning software that helps you learn languages naturally, the same way you learned your first language, by connecting words to objects.
It is a self-study language learning course that you can follow in your own time, at your own pace.
Each course can be tailored to the learner’s needs and goals.
Students and members of staff can participate in regular international meetings via our advanced video conferencing facilities.
The Worldwise Learning Centre is organising regular video conferences during the year offering all our students the opportunity to meet students from our partner institutions across the world.
Two dedicated conference interpreting suites equipped with the state-of-the-art Brahler Simultaneous Interpreting System, Polycom HDX7002 Videoconferencing System, Smartboard interactive whiteboard, 42" LCD monitor and wireless internet provide excellent opportunities for teaching and learning, as well as for meetings with simultaneous interpreting, presentations and mini-conferences for up to 30 participants.
To support and enhance students’ learning experience, various resources are available including self-study books and dictionaries, a collection of international magazines and newspapers as well as digital video and audio material in a variety of languages.
The facilities are available to students, staff and members of public studying a language throughout the year.
The Worldwise Learning Centre can be found in 110 of the Adelphi Building

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/facilities/library:
The library building provides comfortable, flexible study spaces.
We have lots of excellent learning resources, extensive collections of information sources and access to expert help and advice.
As well as access to thousands of books, audio-visual materials and journals, the library also provides:
Visitors are welcome to use our library (Preston Campus), and to consult library collections subject to showing the appropriate forms of identification at the reception desk.
The ground floor is open 24 hours during term time.
Opening times may be subject to change.
View our AccessAble guide .

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/facilities/library-burnley:
The library at our Burnley Campus offers much more than just books - we have a wide range of relevant materials to support your course.
Our knowledgeable and friendly Library staff at Burnley are always ready to help.
We can provide you with:
Address
UCLan Burnley Campus Library, Sandygate Mill, Sandygate, Burnley BB11 1RN
Study space outside of our opening times is available on the 3rd (top) floor of Sandygate Mill as follows:
Please email the Burnley library team if you have any questions regarding the library.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/welcome/checklist:
Before you join us there are a few important tasks you’ll need to complete.
Use our handy checklist below and make sure you have everything covered before you start university.
We need a few details to create your welcome checklist.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/events/listing/welcome-week:
Starting university this September?
Discover the different events taking place across Welcome Week 2025.
The Students' Union will be hosting different events throughout the entirety of welcome week.
Take a look at the Students' Union website for more information.
Each of our schools will be hosting a 'Big Hello' - these are key events where you can meet your academics, as well as other key teams, such as student support, student achievement studies and more.
School
Date
Times
School of Engineering and Computing
Monday 22 September 2025
09:30 - 10:30 and 11:00 - 12:00
Foster Social Space
School of Arts and Media
11:00 - 12:00
Harrington Social Space
School of Veterinary Medicine
16:00 – 17:00
School of Pharmacy and Biomedical Sciences
Tuesday 23 September 2025
School of Law and Policing
10.30 -11.00 Service stands 11.00 - 12.00 Talks
12.00 - 13.00 Lunch
Darwin Lecture Theatre
School of Psychology and Humanities
14:00 - 15:00
School of Health, Social Work and Sport
Wednesday 24 September 2025
School of Business
11.00 - 12.00
School of Medicine and Dentistry
School of Nursing and Midwifery
Thursday 25 September 2025
Our Student Square will a fun social space perfect for meeting new friends and taking part in activities.
Our Engineering & Innovation Centre (EIC) will be open for UK home students for registration.
Our Student Centre will be open for international student registration, general services and increased on-campus support during welcome week.
The student centre will to return to normal activity from 3rd October.
Part Time Jobs Fair
We'll be hosting tours of our library throughout Welcome Week.
Book your place using the following links:
We'll also be hosting “Get Your Device Ready for University” drop-ins.
Our expert staff will be at hand to help with software and access setup.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/welcome/faqs:
If you can't find an answer to your question here, then please contact us and we will do our very best to help.
Many of the links below go to our Student Hub .
You will only be able to access this once you have enrolled on your course and have your student login.
If you are in immediate financial difficulty you can apply for a short term loan.
Discover more about our short term loans and what you need to do .
If you need advice or guidance, please contact our Student Support Team via email or call 01772 891828 .
During term-time, our venues are open for you to get food and drinks during the following times.
Harrington Refectory – Monday to Friday, 8am-4pm
Foster Refectory – Monday to Friday, 8am-3pm
If you’re hungry outside of these times, we also have vending machines across campus which are available 24/7.
Cash and card payments are accepted.
Visit our campus pages for virtual tours and maps.
There are also maps and directions located across campus, usually outside our buildings.
You can also download the MazeMap app from the Apple Store or Google Play .
If you have a parking permit, you can park on any of our designated car parks (check out the terms and conditions you have already received).
If you do not have a permit, on Preston Campus, short stay pay and display parking is available at Harrington Car Park and Victoria Two Car Park.
You can purchase your tickets from nearby machines.
For more information, please visit our Car Parking and Sharing Student Hub page.
If you’re a local student thinking about travelling to university, our Commuter Students webpage has a lot of information to help you.
Need help with enrolment or registration?
Contact our Academic Registry team on +44 (0)1772 891828 (option 1) or come to see the team in person.
The Academic Registry team can be found on the lower ground floor of the Student Centre at Preston Campus or in the Victoria Mill Building (room VM106) at Burnley Campus.
Your tuition fees will be dependent on which course you choose to study and how you choose to study the programme.
The fees are reviewed on an annual basis and the information for Home, European, Island and international based students can be found on our fees and funding section .
Whether you are applying for courses at either undergraduate or postgraduate level, you may be entitled to bursaries, grants, scholarships or discounts so please read the information carefully to discover what you may be entitled to.
Yes, you have the opportunity to defer your place to the next entry intake.
You can email the Admissions Team stating you would like to defer entry.
Please include your name, course, date of birth and UCAS/UCLan ID number.
If you are an international student, please email the International Admissions Team .
Please include your name, course, date of birth and UCLan ID number.
Whether you’re holding an unconditional or conditional offer, our Admissions team need to see evidence of the qualifications listed on your original application.
This ensures that you are eligible for your chosen course and also enables you to enrol.
A Levels and most BTEC results are sent to out Admissions Office via UCAS.
All other forms of qualifications should be submitted directly by you as early as you can to our Admissions Team.
Please email clear photographs in colour via email to the Admissions team along with your UCLan ID number.
If you are an international student, you need to email any required qualification evidence to the International Admissions team .
Please check the conditions of our offer to ensure all the necessary information is provided.
You will not be able to enrol until your qualification is submitted.
You will be able to enrol after your place is confirmed and you have submitted your qualification evidence.
From about six weeks before your course starts, you will be able to access online enrolment using your UCLan username and password that will be sent to you.
We will prompt you with some handy emails to help you complete your enrolment when it is time.
One of the emails will ask you to upload a photo.
This will enable you to set up your University of Central Lancashire Card, which gives you full access to all of our excellent facilities, including the library and sport centre.
Our Admissions Team will send your induction material for your course.
After enrolling you will be able to access your timetable and other course materials on the university network.
Our students may take on part-time work to pay towards their study expenses and to gain valuable employment experience.
Being in the heart of the city means that there are plenty of job opportunities close to campus.
Our Careers team can support you on your job searching journey.
Whether it is through giving you tips on enhancing your employability, or offering 1-2-1 consultations and interview practice sessions.
So that studies will not be affected, we recommend to our home student to not work more than 17 hours per week during term-time.
Our international students will need to check the working restrictions of their visa to know if they can and how many hours per week they can work.
Studying at university places much greater emphasis on independent learning when compared with school or college.
The time spent in the classroom or lecture theatre may seem less, with anywhere between 10 to 15 hours per week.
However you'll be need to carry out independent study outside of lectures.
You'll use resources such as the library to review, research and extend your understanding of the topic.
Typically, this amounts to a working week of 37 hours during term-time.
If you have a question that we haven't already answered in our FAQs then you can contact our support teams by using the contact details below.
Team and contact details
Topics and queries
Customer Accounts
Bank Treasury
Student Support
LIS Customer Services
Wellbeing Team
Inclusive Support
OASIS
Subject Librarians
Estates Helpdesk
Security Team
(01772 892068)
Car Parking Team
Student Immigration and Compliance Team

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/welcome/course-enrolment:
Course enrolment is the formal step which confirms your status as a student at the University of Central Lancashire.
Course enrolment enables your access to all University services.
This online process is compulsory for all students including UK and overseas Partner institutions.
Registration is the process whereby we verify that your personal ID and personal details are accurate and up to date.
This enables the University to verify your attendance to the Student Loans Company (SLC) to release finance.
What this means:
You are committing to becoming a student with UCLan.
You are agreeing to comply with University regulations and to become liable for the payment of a tuition fee.
You are verifying your personal details held by the University are accurate and up to date.
You are confirming your consent to the University processing your information in accordance with the Universities Data Protection statement in line with General Data Protection Regulations legislation.
Once you have received your username and created your password you can access course enrolment online from 6 weeks before your course starts.
To enrol, follow the course enrolment link in MyUCLan.
There are a series of pages to complete and you will both check data already populated and provide the accurate information where required in each field.
Every page offers a help button where you can access additional information if you need further clarification.
Documentation requirements will vary depending on whether you’re a UK, EU or International student, but may include the below:
Upon completion of course enrolment online, you will receive confirmation by email to your UCLan email address within 24 hours.
If you need help or have any questions about enrolment or study support contact us via our contact form or call us on +44 01772 891828 .

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/advice/anxiety-at-university:
Starting your journey into higher education is an exciting time - but it can also be a bit nerve-wracking too.
In this guide we have compiled a list of things that may be causing you anxiety, and some tips on working through them.
We'll cover different things that might be causing you anxiety before or during your time at University.
We'll help explain them a bit and give you tips and advice for coping with or managing anxiety.
If you couldn't find any help or advice here, then we recommend taking a look at our student support pages or getting in touch with our student support team .
They're really friendly and always willing to help, even before your first day studying with us.
This is a longer article, you can use these links to find whichever topic you need:
It's normal to be nervous about starting university.
It's a big life change that requires a lot of thought and consideration.
If you're anxious about your preparations, we've written a guide to fully prepare you for starting university.
For a lot of people, going to university can be the first time they're moving away from home.
You might be moving three or four hours away, or moving to the UK from an entirely different country.
It's completely natural to be homesick.
Feelings of homesickness can come along during your first weeks as you're still meeting new people and getting familiar with your new home.
Making friends can be a big help, but also exploring your new university and city can help root you somewhere new, and help it become familiar.
If you live in the UK, our Preston and Burnley campuses have fantastic public transport links to most major locations in the UK.
You can easily use this transport to visit home on your first weekends if you like.
Balancing some of your old home life with your new should help things start to feel a little bit more normal.
For our international students, Preston and Burnley campuses have close transport links with Manchester Airport.
You can invite family and friends to see your new home.
Preston and Burnley both have plenty of things to do, and having people you know and love around can help make things feel just like home.
For ideas of fun activities, you can see our following handy guides:
We live in the amazing age of the internet.
You can talk to people by text, voice and face to face online - and this can be a massive help if you're feeling a little homesick.
Sometimes just hearing a familiar voice, or seeing a friendly face, can really help with anxiety and nerves.
You and your best friends might have chosen different universities, and that might be worrying you a bit.
You can always use social media to stay in touch.
Try to keep up a schedule where you and your friends make time for eachother online.
This can help with waiting until the next time you get to see each other again.
Worrying about making friends at uni is perfectly normal.
There are so many opportunities to meet people that we've written a whole separate guide about it.
Be sure to take a look to find a few different ways to meet people and make new friends.
Our range of support services will provide you with the help you need throughout your time here and beyond.
From financial matters, health and wellbeing, to inclusive support and visas.
A common thing to feel when starting college, university and even work is feeling like you don't belong - or that you haven't earned your place.
This is sometimes called ' Impostor syndrome.'
The most important thing to remember is that you do belong at University and you have very much earned your place.
No matter what route you used to enter the course, you have done the work to get to the point you're at today.
In the first few weeks you might feel some of your peers know more in lectures than you do.
This is normal - lots of people will have studied different subjects and curriculums on their way to university.
Usually, the first year of a course is designed to get everyone on the same page, so you'll pick up everything you need to know for the following years.
At university you might be dealing with workloads and deadlines that you're not used to.
You might be finding your course really intense and finding yourself struggling to meet deadlines.
Naturally, this could be stressing you out and making you feel anxious.
Planning is a major skill when it comes to managing your time and workloads.
Our Study Support Team can help you with both planning and improving your academic skills, and we recommend getting in touch with them to discuss your specific circumstances.
It's also good to research yourself to find a method that works for you.
In general, our top tips would be:
Ongoing assignments, upcoming exams, research or revision time.
Try to get it all down into a journal or planner.
Jotting down your entire semester's workload is a good starting point.
Try to work out how much time each of your items will take and plot it into a timeline.
For example, an assignment might take you a week and you might have 4 assignments in one semester.
You now know you need at least 4 weeks free to work on the assignments.
Block out that time.
The same applies to studying and revision for exams.
If you work tirelessly, you'll eventually burn out.
Try to give yourself breaks during and between assignments or revision.
Make sure you do something you really enjoy.
This can also help if you're stuck on some work - going for a walk and returning with fresh eyes can be a massive help sometimes.
Getting away from anything that might distract you may help you get through your work more efficiently.
You can use the Library , study spots around campus or local cafes.
Switch off your phone, set your laptop to focus mode and try to focus on the work as much as you can.
Cost of living is tough for students at the moment.
We've opened up a cost of living support hub to try and cover as much financial information as possible.
We recommend taking a look at the hub and finding more information on anything that might be causing you anxiety.
There are some big expectations about what your Freshers' Week should be like and this might be making you nervous.
The truth is, your Freshers' experience is exactly what you want it to be.
Ignore the perceptions people have about what you should be doing during freshers' and instead do whatever you like.
You can go out, exploring the town and its nightlife or you can stay inside with a nice book, film or game and a hot drink, getting comfortable in your new home.
There is no right way to do freshers' week other than doing it exactly how you want.
Attending your first lectures can be a bit nerve-wracking - it's your first time in a new room, with new people and a new tutor.
It's important to remember that everyone is in that same boat - everyone is new and are likely nervous too.
One big help can be to find your lecture hall or classroom a day or so before your first class and pick out a seat.
On the day of your first lesson, arrive a little early so you can get your seat.
Having this planned out in advance can help you manage your anxiety on the day.
Finding your way around a big campus can also be intimidating.
If you're worried about being late to lectures when trying to find your way around then we have a few tips for you:
If you're going to be commuting to university, we have a page all about commuting.
Our commuter students page has information about our local public transport networks and any student discounts you might be eligible for.
This might be your first time using a new type of public transport, and you might be a little nervous about how it all works.
We've outlined some guides below on how to use public transport around our campuses.
Do make sure to order your ticket before you travel as there are currently fines in place for not doing so.
We have a number of faith and spirituality based facilities available for our students if you need them.
For more information you can visit our Student Oasis Faith & Spirituality Centre page.
It outlines all the services and facilities we have on offer.
We hope this article has been useful, but it's important to recognise that professional help is available if you need it.
If you ever feel like your anxieties and worries are getting too much for you then we recommend reaching out for professional help.
Our student support teams are always ready to help you, with tailored support to your own needs.
If there's anything you need help with, we encourage you to explore our wellbeing webpage or get in touch with the support team directly.
They will be able to signpost you to any professional services, or any services we provide.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/student-stories/starting-university:
As a student moving away from home for the first time, I had lots of worries and unanswered questions.
Things like what university would be like, how I would make friends and what support would be available to me when I started.
Whether you are a commuter student or live in accommodation , there are lots of different opportunities to make friends when you come to UCLan.
Welcome Week has something for everyone!
There are activities during the day at the Students’ Union where you can meet people from across the campus.
There are also evening events like bingo, karaoke, and a silent disco where you can have a laugh with flatmates and make new friends.
Remember – you don’t have to say yes to everything.
The friends that you make in the first week might not be the friends you keep throughout your whole degree, so don't put too much pressure on yourself.
During Welcome Week, there will be a societies and sports fair, where you can find out about the different activities that you can take part in during your spare time.
From cheerleading to rugby union; from photography to the student radio.
There are so many opportunities to get involved with student life, learn a new skill and make new friends.
Not sure what you want to do?
Most societies and sports clubs hold taster sessions so you can try the club before you sign up.
You can also volunteer, either as part of the One-Off Wednesday scheme or as part of a campaign, working with the group on a regular basis.
Through trying a new society, I met one of my best friends that I may never have crossed paths with if I hadn’t put myself out there and tried something new.
It is really important to remember that drinking alcohol is not the only way to enjoy yourself at university.
If you want to experience Preston’s nightlife , you can rule the dancefloor without a drink in your hand or indulge in a mocktail on a not-so-boozy brunch with your friends.
There is a societal consensus that all university students do is go out drinking every night, but the drinking culture is not as common as people think.
Students who do drink are very accepting of those who choose not to.
Remember that, if you do not want to drink, you shouldn’t be pressured to do so – it's your choice!
Having a healthy balance of studying and socialising is the best way to get the most out of your university life.
When the university workload hits, it is easy to get overwhelmed, so remembering to take care of yourself is really important.
Creating a study timetable can help you manage your workload if you remain disciplined.
You can also plan points during the week where you either meet your friends, spend time exploring Preston or watch a new film.
This will ensure that you are able to stay motivated and don’t burn out.
The library is open 24/7 during term time so you can study when you are most productive and recuperate at your lower points.
Remember – getting enough sleep is essential along with having a healthy diet, regular exercise and time for self-care, however you practice this.
Moving away from home for the first time can be scary and homesickness is common amongst students.
The welfare team are on hand to help.
Support is available through counselling or signposting to the best services for you.
University is a big step for everyone, so it is important to remember that you are not alone.
Speaking to your friends about how you are feeling can help to lift a weight off your shoulders, but there is always someone to listen to you within the university too.
There is also support for those with disabilities , for people that are struggling financially or for people that would like to improve their academic skills.
Inclusive Support are here to make sure that the university can support you and your needs as much as possible during your studies.
Financial support is available to help you manage your money and explain if you are eligible for bursaries or scholarships.
Study Support can provide assignment feedback, academic study support workshops, one-to-one sessions, group sessions, dedicated support hubs for each school and online digital skills courses.
Whatever you need, UCLan will support you in any way that they can!
Starting university is such an exciting experience and, hopefully, some of your questions have been answered.
UCLan is here to support you throughout your journey and new opportunities are just waiting for you to arrive.
So, embrace the adventure with an open heart and a positive mindset – you're about to embark on an amazing chapter of your life!

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/student-stories/sober-student-guide:
It’s easy to feel like you’re missing out, but Preston has a lot to offer for people who prefer to stay sober and still want to have fun.
Whether it’s exploring the parks, grabbing some food, or just having a quiet day out, here’s my personal guide to enjoying the city without alcohol.
One of my favourite things to do is head over to the Odeon near Riversway for a good movie.
It’s a great excuse to unwind after a long week and, honestly, nothing beats watching a new release on the big screen.
You can walk there if you want a bit of fresh air — it’s a nice route, but if you’re not in the mood, there’s always the bus.
It’s a simple outing but a fun way to spend a few hours, especially if you’re not into the party scene.
Plus, who doesn’t love cinema popcorn?
When the weather’s nice, Preston Marina is one of my favourite spots for a picnic.
I’ll pack some snacks, maybe some sandwiches and fruit, and head down for a relaxing afternoon.
It’s peaceful by the water, and there’s plenty of space to spread out.
Sometimes I’ll bring a book, or if I’m with friends, we’ll just sit around chatting.
It’s one of those quiet, enjoyable things to do when you want a break from studying or busy university life.
Moor Park is another great place to go when I want some fresh air.
It’s one of the biggest parks in Preston and there’s always something happening.
Whether I’m going for a walk to clear my head or finding a nice spot to relax, it’s a nice escape from the hustle and bustle.
And let’s be honest, the best part of any park is running into dogs on their walks.
It’s perfect for when you want a bit of nature without going too far from the city.
When the sun’s out, Avenham Park is the place to be.
This park is beautiful in the summer, and I’ve spent plenty of afternoons there with friends just enjoying the good weather.
There’s always something going on — from events and festivals to live music and markets.
It’s a really nice spot to relax, grab some ice cream, and enjoy the community atmosphere.
It’s the kind of place where you can spend hours without even realising it.
If you’re a student in Preston, you’ll end up on Friargate at least a few times a week.
It’s packed with takeaways and places to eat - and the best part is everything’s reasonably priced.
When I’m too lazy to cook or just craving something quick and tasty, there’s no shortage of options.
Whether it’s pizza, kebabs, or wraps, you can find something to satisfy your cravings.
Some of my go-to restaurants in Preston are:
I have a serious sweet tooth, so Kaspas (located on the way to the train station) is one of my favourite spots for dessert.
They do everything from waffles and sundaes to crepes, and you can even get a student discount!
When I’m in the mood for something sugary, it’s my go-to place.
Roccos on Friargate is another great option if you’re looking for somewhere a bit more local.
Both spots are perfect for when you need a sugar boost or just want to treat yourself after a long day of classes.
If you haven’t tried Spud Bros yet, you’re missing out.
It’s a bit of a local gem in the town centre and serves the most amazing loaded jacket potatoes.
It’s the kind of hearty meal that hits the spot after a busy day, especially when you need something quick and filling.
The town centre itself is really easy to navigate and close to everything, including the train station, which is perfect for days when you feel like exploring a bit further afield.
One of the best things about Preston is its location.
The train station is close to the town centre, so you’re only a short journey away from other great cities like Manchester or even the Lake District if you fancy a day in nature.
It’s nice to have the option to get out of town for a day without too much hassle.
And since you’re not dealing with hangovers, you can make the most of those early morning trips!
Preston has so much to offer beyond just the nightlife scene, and it’s easy to find things to do if you’re not into drinking.
From parks and picnics to great food and trips out of the city, there’s always something to keep you busy.
It’s just about exploring and finding what works for you.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/student-voice/weekends-in-preston:
Nitish Trikha - MBBS
My time at university has been a thrilling, challenging, and insightful experience.
Over the past five years, I have seen the university grow and the campus change in front of my eyes.
The positive growth of the university also correlates with that of Preston as a city.
Which I feel has been a great place to stay and live in.
During my time at Preston, I have used the sports centre and the gym which has allowed me to stay mentally and physically fit.
I have represented my university in BUCS badminton and athletics tournaments.
I have had the opportunity to join the medics basketball society and the Chess society alongside a team of passionate colleagues
I have also used the sports arena for athletics and football training which is a sprawling sports venue where you can play quite a lot of sports.
I really like the world-class sports facilities.
Be it the gym, sports arena or sports halls, it provides an excellent exposure to a competitive sports environment.
I feel that it has helped me develop my skills in badminton while working together with dedicated friends and colleagues.
I feel what makes Preston unique is its location.
Preston has a balance between being a big city as well as providing a comfortable environment for study.
The direct and frequent trains to Manchester airport and major cities such as Manchester, Lancaster, London, Birmingham, and Scotland make travel easy.
I can also save on travel costs by using my railcard.
Being awarded the purple flag status for safety and having security and cameras also makes me feel safe within the university.
Not only this, but the library also offers a shuttle service late at night, so we don’t have to worry about getting home in the dark.
" I feel what makes Preston unique is its location.
Preston is a multicultural place with people from different walks of life.
Being from India and Singapore often makes me miss home and the culture and food there.
However, due to the adequate and well priced Indian grocery stores and events organised by the communities here, I feel extremely please to have chosen to study at UCLan.
For the nature lovers, I would definitely recommend Avenham and Moor Park.
These are excellent places to relax and socialize.
Being open to the public, they offer sprawling green fields, basketball and tennis courts which are free to use for all.
If anyone is planning to interact with the community, joining the 5K free parkrun is an excellent way to meet people and socialise.
For anyone planning to come to Preston, I would suggest that you have an open-minded approach.
Seize all the new opportunities here, and interact with people from different countries.
I would recommend joining the gym or a society because it is important to have an all-rounded experience of student life.
Finally, do not hesitate to seek help from me or anyone from UCLan and try to enjoy what this city has to offer as much as possible.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/welcome/preparing-for-uni:
Starting university marks a new chapter in your life and there are lots of things to consider.
Here's how to prepare for university.
The University of Central Lancashire guarantee that all first-year students can get a room in our accommodation.
This can help you make friends and give parents peace of mind, as there is 24 hour security.
However, you should apply as soon as possible to get the halls you want.
All of our accommodation is close to campus, with just a short walk into town.
There are lots of local amenities, including food shops, international shops and transportation links.
You can rent from a private landlord if university accommodation doesn't meet your needs.
Make sure they are registered with UCLan Studentpad .
You should complete your Student Finance application as soon as possible.
Log in to your account to check the progress of your application or make an update.
You will need to enrol at university before you receive your maintenance loan.
You can do this online 6 weeks before your course starts.
Check out our full guide on how to enrol .
You'll normally receive your first payment at the start of term.
If there's any delay, get in touch with our support team .
They can help resolve any issues and provide emergency food vouchers.
Your maintenance loan will be divided into three payments.
You'll receive these payments in September, January and April.
You will need to open a student bank account before you start university.
These usually have more favourable terms than a normal bank account.
Don't just stick with the same bank, shop around to get the best deal.
It's easy to switch banks and they'll do everything for you.
Here are some things to consider when choosing a student bank account:
An overdraft allows you to spend more money than you have in your bank account.
This is normally up to an agreed amount.
For example, if you had £100 in your bank account and spent £500, you would have -£400 in your bank account.
You should look for a bank account with an interest-free overdraft.
That means if you go into your overdraft, you will only pay back the amount you spend.
You should try to find a student bank account which has a savings account with a good interest rate.
This will help you save money at university.
For example, if you put £500 in a savings account with 5% interest rate AER, you will have £525 in a year.
A lot of banks will offer deals and extras to try and get you to choose them.
This could include cash, vouchers, railcards and other perks.
Think about which will benefit you the most in the long term.
When you're preparing for university, you should check to see if you are eligible for any of our scholarships and bursaries .
These can help towards living expenses.
These are usually for students from disadvantaged or underrepresented backgrounds.
Check the terms of the scholarship or bursary to see if you can apply.
There are specific bursaries for care-leavers , carers and students with dependants .
A lot of students choose to work alongside their studies.
This is a good way to earn extra cash while at university.
You could start to look for a job online before you start university, but there will still be plenty of openings when you're here.
Preston is a student city, with lots of shops, cafes, restaurants and bars all looking for part-time staff.
We have a great careers team who can help you find work too.
They can assist with your CV and cover letter, as well as interview skills and technique.
Check out more advice and resources on our student jobs page.
This may be the first time you've lived on your own.
Here are some life skills that will help you prepare for university:
Learn how to cook a few basic, healthy meals.
Student staples include pasta and stir frys.
You can find quick and easy recipes on social media, which you can cook on a budget.
You'll need to keep on top of cleaning your flat, otherwise you could be charged a cleaning fee when you move out.
You probably already know how to vacuum and sweep up.
Ask a family member to teach you how to clean a kitchen and bathroom.
You'll need to know how to use a washing machine, tumble dryer and ironing board.
This will be much easier than bringing your washing home every weekend.
This might be the first time you are in charge of a budget.
It's important to keep track of your outgoings, so you can plan your spending.
Once you know how much you will receive from your maintenance loan, you can make a budget.
Work out exactly how much money you will have each month - including your maintenance loan and any other income.
Then work out how much you need to spend on essentials, like rent, food and transport.
Take a look at our financial support page for average spending in Preston.
If you are worried about money, we have plenty of financial support on offer.
You could consider applying for one of our scholarships and bursaries .
Moving is a big part of preparing for university.
You have to think about both the logistics and emotion of moving home.
Make a list of all the items you'll need, so you don't forget anything.
Go through room by room, including the bedroom, bathroom and kitchen.
You should bring a variety of clothing with you.
Remember you'll be spending most of your time in lectures or in your flat.
You should focus on practical, comfy clothing.
You will also need a good winter coat.
Sometimes it's easier to buy things here, rather than travelling with them.
This could include plates, pots, pans and glassware.
The Students' Union organise a Great Donate every year, where you can buy items left by previous students.
These are normally very cheap, so you could bag yourself a bargain.
There are also a great range of high street and charity shops where you can buy homeware.
Alternatively, you could order it online to your flat once you've moved in.
Bring lots of photos with you.
This can help to make your new flat feel like home.
It can also help with homesickness.
Check out our what to take to uni checklist , so you don't miss any of the essentials.
You might be nervous about what to expect on your course.
Familiarising yourself with the course and reading list can make you feel more confident.
Your tutor might email out the reading list for your course.
There are normally a couple of key textbooks.
Borrow or buy a couple to get a head start on reading.
This can give you an overview of the course.
You won't need to buy every book.
If you can't get hold of the reading list, take a look at your course on the website.
This includes all of the modules you will be studying.
The module titles will give you an idea of the topics you'll be studying, so you can start to do some research around this.
You could watch vlogs by people who are studying the same subject as you.
You might not study the same topics, but it could give you an idea of how you'll be spending your time.
It's a big jump from college to university.
You will be expected to do a lot more independent studying at university.
This can be a tricky adjustment, but these study tips can help you to prepare for university.
Don't worry too much before you start university.
There's lots of Study Support available once you've started your course.
The Library run workshops on skills like academic writing, referencing and finding literature.
There's also an online course to improve your digital skills.
Our Achieve+ programme also provides personalised academic support, including an achievement plan.
All first year students are enrolled into Achieve+ .
This is a study programme which is designed to help you get the most out of your time at university.
Before you start, you'll get a personalised achievement plan.
We'll ask you to complete a few surveys.
This will help us to identify where you can develop.
This will guide you to improve your academic expertise, skills and career readiness.
We know most students are worried about making friends at university.
We do everything we can to help you make friends, including an exciting line up of Welcome Week events.
Here are some of our top tips to put your mind at ease:
As cliché as it sounds, everyone is in the same boat.
That means they're as nervous as you as you are.
So don't be scared to go up to people and start a conversation - they'll probably appreciate it.
You might be able to find your flatmates or people on your course before you start.
Don't be afraid to pop them a friendly hello and let them know who you are.
You might be able to break the ice and plan to meet up on your first day.
You should also try to add the people you meet in your first few weeks.
Even if you don't become friends straight away, you might be able to reach out to them in the future and build a relationship.
There are so many events during Welcome Week.
There's fairs, vintage sales and karaoke nights.
These events can be a great way to break the ice with your flatmates.
Try new things and discover what you have in common.
We have a wide range of societies available.
This can be a great way to make friends, as you already share an interest.
You could join a society based on your hobby, religion, heritage or subject.
While it may be scary to move away from your family and friends, starting university presents a unique opportunity.
You will probably never meet as many new people from all over the world again.
Be open to conversations and approach it as an exciting opportunity.
Check out our full guide on how to make friends at university .
Starting university is exciting, but it can also be overwhelming.
It's normal to feel stressed or lost during your first few weeks.
Our amazing support team are on hand to help.
We provide extensive mental health and wellbeing support .
Our Mental Health Advisors are all professional practitioners, who can provide support or refer you to other services.
All students are entitled to free counselling.
Don't wait to reach out.
We can help you with any problem you're facing.
Our support team are available in the Student Centre.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/student-voice/why-you-should-join-a-society-at-uclan:
MBBS student Devadharshini talks to us about their experience joining a society.
If you ask me what my favourite memory is from my first year at UCLan, I will hands down say the Freshers Fair during Welcome Week.
The reason for this is that I got the incredible opportunity to learn about various societies available for UCLan students to join.
They had set up stalls with brochures, and some even had free snacks and goodie bags that they were giving to those who signed up.
Each society was unique in its own way and had something captivating about them.
My friends and I visited each stall and were so intrigued that we ended up signing up for their Fresher's events.
By the end of the day I had found a few societies that really drew me in their direction, so I signed up to become a member.
These included the UCLan Medical Society, EmPulse, and GP Society, which caught my eye with the events that they were planning to hold.
They also had benefits such as revision sessions before exams, attending conferences at other universities, and so on.
UCLan has a wide variety of societies for one to choose from.
There are societies that are catered to your specific course, sports, gymnastics or research.
There are also some fun ones like the film society and board gaming society.
There are over 70 societies to choose from or if you feel like there’s a society missing, it is easy to form a new one.
Societies are a great way to find a group you'll love being with.
Discover people who share your passions.
Make new friends and get involved with activities, hobbies & cultures.
Societies bring together like-minded people to share a common interest.
I'm studying Medicine at UCLan, so I ended up joining a few medical societies.
There are a number benefits to being a member in a society.
The main one being discounted society merchandise, free entry to some of their events, and many more.
Being a member of a society means you have member priority for events with limited capacity.
The main reason I joined societies was because I got to meet new people and gain knowledge as well, expanding my social circle.
Getting involved with the extra-curricular activities, I have ended up meeting people with the same interests as me.
Some of them even became my closest friends.
Being a new starter at UCLan, as well as starting as an international student, I found being a part of societies great for making friends.
It also helped with getting to know my senior student colleagues, which proved very useful in getting tips on how to do well in my course.
A few friends of mine joined sports societies, became part of the UCLan sports team, and got to travel to new places to play matches with other universities.
They also talk about how they got to meet many new people and learn how to become comfortable with being a part of a new team.
" You can even take on leadership roles and contribute to making the society better, which also looks very attractive on your CV.
There are various roles you can take on in a society, such as President, Vice-Chair, Secretary, and Treasurer and so on.
Being a part of a society does not mean you can only be a member.
You can even take on leadership roles and contribute to making the society better, which also looks very attractive on your CV.
You can learn key skills such as how to be responsible as well as how to contribute to building the team.
This is also an early learning ground to finding an effective work-life balance.
In my second year, I applied to become the Freshers Planner for UCLan Medical Society.
This developed my organisation skills for remote events due to COVID.
It was also a great opportunity for me to learn team working skills, how to manage my time alongside studies as well as connect with a wide range of people.
One of the most important things I learnt from being a part of various societies is that university is so much more than studying for your degree.
Your time as a student is a valuable opportunity for you to try new things and get outside your comfort zone.
Feel free to join any society that stands out to you and make the most of it.
At the same time make sure you learn to have a good work-life balance prioritizing your education first.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/student-voice/making-friends-at-university:
Starting university can be a nerve-wracking feeling.
Often, the thought of making friends can be scarier than actually doing so.
Student Nicol-Stella talks us through her experience starting university in a new city, and how they met their friends and got to know course mates.
"The thought of being somewhere new, sometimes in an unfamiliar city and not knowing people can be scary.
I know this feeling well as I was in your situation three years ago.
What I found useful was the Facebook groups that the University sets up for applicants.
There are groups for all subject areas, as well as ones for the University halls on-campus.
Everyone on the groups is in the same situation as you, wanting to meet new people and make friends."
"Before I started my Forensic Science course, I joined the Facebook group and we ended up having a group chat afterwards.
It calmed my nerves a lot as we were getting to know each other before we’d started, even making plans to meet socially.
There were people from all walks of life with a mix of ages, ethnicities and backgrounds.
This was interesting as there were people I may not have had the opportunity to meet in different circumstances."
" While starting somewhere new and making a new set of friends can feel daunting, it is really exciting to get to meet people who may be your friends for life!
So, join Facebook groups, chat to your course mates and take a look at the Students’ Union societies.
"When I first started, I made a conscious effort to chat to people wherever possible, even if it was just small talk.
This can be easier said than done, but start by chatting to someone you’ve met through the Facebook groups or strike up a conversation with someone on your course.
Through doing this, I’d go out for lunch with my new course mates or grab a coffee on the way to another lecture.
Here, you have the chance to get to know people that bit better."
"On my course I also met a girl who was from Cyprus like me and following this, she added me into a group chat with other Cypriots at the University.
I got to meet many more people who were familiar with my home and culture, which helped me to settle in that bit more."
"While starting somewhere new and making a new set of friends can feel daunting, it is really exciting to get to meet people who may be your friends for life!
There are so many ways to get involved in the social element of university."

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/student-stories/top-places-to-go-in-preston:
From Preston's parks and cafes to great nights out and drinks with friends, discover Preston student Megan's top places to visit in Preston.
Perfect if you need to get away from revision and fancy a walk, run or a chill with friends in the (occasionally) sunny parks.
Both Avenham and Miller park are connected and an easy 12 minute walk from campus.
The parks are beautiful, with many different pathways, leading on to Preston Docks and the Guild Wheel, great for walking, cycling or skating.
Avenham park is home to a riverside café and Holy Grounds, a Preston hot-spot for great coffee and homemade doughnuts.
Level is a great place to catch up with friends, course mates and flatmates.
Determine who is the best at crazy golf, bowling or attempt an assault course.
Set across multiple levels, Level is an leisure and entertainment venue with activities for everyone, visit Level for:
Visit Townhouse for perfect coffee, beautiful eggs benedict and great staff.
I do not think I need to say anything more – it is my favourite place to have brunch, or get some work done.
Plus it is located less than 5 minutes' walk from campus, perfect for a pre-lecture pick me up.
A staple amongst Preston students, Coco 's is home to amazing food, with friendly staff and a great vibe.
I recommend the Jerk Chicken Wrap and chips.
Top tip: order the special sauce to go on chips.
If you're a big fan of cocktails, some of my favourite places to drink in Preston are Turtle Bay , Baker Street, Wings and Beer or Hartley’s Wine Bar .
Cute places, with some cool interiors and a great selection of cocktails.
Warehouse is my favourite club in Preston.
Three floors of amazing music, from cheesy pop to every song your emo phase desired.
It’s also the only place I know that serves Vodka Vimto that I recommend everyone should try!

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/student-voice/top-activities-in-burnley:
Find out what Medical Sciences student Blessing's favourite things to do in Burnley town are.
Perhaps you’ve got your offer to study a course in Burnley or you’re still exploring and you don’t know much about the town.
I came from Birmingham to study Medical Sciences in Burnley and I’ve discovered many great things to do outside of the classroom over the last year or so.
Keep on reading for my top things to do in Burnley.
Walks
Burnley is surrounded by so much natural beauty and has six Green Flag parks.
I love to walk around the various parks and along the canals in my spare time.
My favourite park in Burnley is Scott Park, it’s a big park with lots of trees and a stream.
I find walking very relaxing and a great way to clear my mind.
I will often sit by the stream in Scott Park and listen to the water.
When walking around Burnley, there’s a huge chance that if you look up, you’ll see some hills in the distance, which are very picturesque.
But, it’s the views from the hills themselves that I absolutely love.
I will often hike up the hills to see more of the scenery.
There are plenty of different routes to explore including Pendle Hill, which is famously known for the Pendle Witches.
St Peter’s Leisure Centre
St Peter’s Leisure Centre is amazing.
The gym is well-equipped with exercise machines, a dedicated cycling room and free weights.
Personally, going to the gym isn’t my favourite way to exercise but I still like to make use of my membership.
There’s a swimming pool, badminton courts, squash courts and even a sauna/spa area for relaxing.
Exercise is important and a good way to de-stress and lift your mood, especially if you go with your friends.
In my experience, it’s really easy to rent equipment like badminton rackets and have a social game with friends/flatmates.
Burnley Market
Burnley’s indoor market is well worth checking out.
Some of my highlights include the yarn/craft stall, which is one of my personal favourites.
I will often visit to pick up my yarn to crochet with and they have so many colours and weights of yarn that it is often tempting to buy more than I need.
The monthly Artisan Market is a great place to pick up unique gifts and sweet treats.
I love visiting this to support local businesses and it’s a fun activity to do with my friends.
The market is also home to a food court with diverse options and an eating area.
So far, I’ve only tried Siam Thai but it was delicious, the owner was lovely and even helped me to decide which of their dishes to try.
Places to eat and drink
Sometimes when I need a change of scenery, I will study in the cafes located near campus.
Rhode Island Coffee is one of my favourites and is located in the town centre.
It has a lot of indoor seating, which is useful in the colder weather, as well as great hot drinks and sandwiches.
There is a Starbucks close by to campus, which is often open until late.
It’s good when I want to study late but it’s also an ideal spot to meet for a late-night coffee catch-up with my friends.
There are very few things I find better than rewarding myself with a treat from What’s 4 Dessert after a long day of lectures or studying.
My favourite is the waffle with salted caramel ice cream (and a milkshake if I’m feeling especially daring!).
Whats 4 Dessert is only a five-minute walk away from campus (and Sandygate Halls too) so it’s easy to get to.
I hope you have found this blog useful and that it’s given you an insight into student life at Burnley.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/advice/burnley-campus-directions:
Our compact Burnley Campus is easily accessible by car or public transport.
From the M65: Leave the motorway at Junction 10, and follow signs for Burnley A671.
At the roundabout take the Town Centre exit and then turn right at the traffic lights onto Trafalgar Street.
UCLan Victoria Mill is on the left.
There are a limited number of car parking spaces available to students studying at our Burnley Campus.
To manage the space available on campus, parking permits for students are offered on a semester-by-semester basis to those meeting one of a set of criteria.
Burnley town centre has a number of car parks which students can use on a pay and display basis.
Train
Victoria Mill is a 5-minute walk from Manchester Road Station and Princess Way is a 2-minute walk from Burnley Central Station.
From Burnley Manchester Road Railway Station to Victoria Mill: Turn left out of the station and head down Manchester Road.
Turn left at the roundabout onto Trafalgar Street and cross the road.
Continue on Trafalgar Street and you'll find UCLan Victoria Mill 500yards on the left.
From Burnley Central Railway Station to UCLan Princess Way: Turn right out of the Station onto Railway Street, at the end of the street turn right onto Canning Street and onto Princess Way.
Cross the road, using the crossing to UCLan Burnley Princess Way.
Bus
The Burnley Campus is situated on major bus routes and buses to Preston, Blackburn and Manchester run regularly.
We are committed to reducing its environmental impact and through the implementation of its Travel Plan supports Sustainable and Active Travel.
Reduce time, money and your carbon footprint by planning your journey .

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/advice/westlakes-campus-directions:
Starting south of Carlisle: Leave the M6 motorway at junction 40 and take the A66 west past Keswick and Cockermouth.
Then take the A595 south until you pass Workington and Whitehaven.
Starting north of Carlisle: Leave the M6 motorway at junction 43 and continue on the A595 from Carlisle.
Go south, passing Cockermouth, along the A66 briefly, then back onto the A595 past Workington and Whitehaven.
At the Science Park: The Westlakes Science and Technology park is approximately two and a half miles south of Whitehaven, and is clearly signposted on the left of the road.
On leaving the A595, turn onto the science park and take the first left at the roundabout signed Crow Park Way.
Take the first right and continue until you reach a T-junction, turn left and the UCLan building is on your left hand side.
Parking is available to the rear and on both sides of the building.
We recommend making your way to Whitehaven Railway Station.
From there the Campus is a 10 minute taxi ride away.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/welcome/arriving-in-the-uk:
If you are travelling to the UK to start university, you'll find everything you need to know on this page.
From arrival information to enrolment and course induction, use our checklist to make sure you have everything covered before you join us.
For the latest coronavirus advice on travelling to England from another country, please read the latest Government guidance .
We highly recommend that you fly into Manchester Airport as this is the closest Airport to all our campuses.
This may allow you to use our University Airport Transfer service as it is only available from Manchester Airport, so if you choose to fly into another UK airport, be sure to check what transport links are available to get you to campus.
If your flight into the UK arrives at Manchester airport on one of our transfer dates, you may be able to request an Airport Transfer.
For more information on our Airport Transfer service , you can register your interest here.
Please check if your airline has put in place any additional rules regarding face coverings and other personal protective clothing on their flights.
We strongly advise you to not bring more than two suitcases and one piece of hand luggage.
If you bring any more than this, you may be unable to use the airport transfer service mentioned above due to the limited luggage space available and you may find it difficult if you are travelling to campus by public transport.
There are plenty of shops close to our Preston Campus where you can purchase household goods such as crockery, cutlery, bedding, towels and kitchen appliances if needed.
If you arrive after the shops have closed, bedding packs can be provided on loan by UCLan Security for overnight use.
UK weather can be unpredictable and varied, therefore you will need appropriate clothing for all types of conditions.
Further information on the types of weather that you can expect in the UK can be found on the Met Office webpages .
You will also need to remember to bring any prescription contact lenses or medication that you are currently taking as required.
On arrival at Manchester Airport, you will need to pass through Immigration Control.
Please make sure you have your passport and visa or valid Biometric Residence Permit (BRP) card (if you already have one) ready to show at Immigration Control.
The Immigration Officer may also ask to see documents you submitted as part of your visa application, or your CAS letter from UCLan, as proof that you are going to be studying in the UK.
For further information on entering the UK, please read the gov.uk website advice .
If you are coming to the UK on a short-term Visa, you need to ensure you get a stamp of entry so do not use the e-Gates if you are directed to do so.
If an Airport member of staff directs you to use the e-Gates, please politely explain that you need a Visa stamp and ask that you see a Border Officer.
The University offers a free airport transfer for all new overseas UCLan students.
To register your interest in the service, please complete our online form and we will contact you prior to the start of term in order to confirm details about the service that we are able to offer.
All three of our UK campuses can also be reached by public transport either by road or rail.
It is important to remember before booking any transport to check what time you are due to land, allowing plenty of time to pass through immigration and to collect your bags.
Once you have received your CAS letter, Student Services staff will contact you by email with further information that will help you prepare for your arrival in the UK.
Should you have any questions or concerns you can respond to the emails or contact us direct on internationalstudent@uclan.ac.uk .
If you are going to take a taxi we would recommend you either book in advance via a reputable taxi firm in the North West before you fly to the UK, or by using the Manchester Airport approved Taxi firm Street Cars .
Many firms based in Preston, Burnley and the Lake District offer Airport pick-up services, so please do some research on these and contact them for quotes.
All licenced taxi firms in the UK are obliged to provide a quote for your journey before departure and then only charge that specified amount.
If you decide not to book in advance but take a taxi upon arrival, we would urge you to book this through the Streetcars stands within the Airport terminals.
This will ensure you travel with a licenced taxi driver.
Again, ask for quotes before you set off and check what forms of payment they will accept.
We would normally expect a Taxi to cost the following prices, dependant on the time of day you are travelling:
For a cheaper option, you could look at trains from the Airport to the relevant campus you will be studying at.
Travelling to Preston by train is straight forward and often direct.
To Burnley and Westlakes is a little more complicated as you may need to change trains once or twice, however they still offer a good value alternative to taking a Taxi.
You can use the National Rail website to look for the best route to take by train depending on the time of day you arrive.
Please find out more about options to travelling to out Westlakes Campus and Burnley Campus .

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/student-voice/stephen-storey:
Now in his third and final year, BSc (Hons) Physics with Astrophysics student Stephen Storey is enjoying all aspects of his time at the University of Central Lancashire.
It was on open day where Stephen was first impressed by what UCLan had to offer.
"Other universities didn't show me anything more than the generic pitch that had already been advertised to me.
UCLan had us go hands on with a small experiment, showed us some things other students achieved and then showed us around the labs.
UCLan felt like it had pride in what it does.
They delivered the message that it would support me in my studies which other universities couldn’t match."
As a student Stephen developed his understanding of physics and interests in areas such as dark matter and python coding.
He enjoyed the practical modules hosted the brilliant facilities UCLan provides for its students.
“As part of my course, I get access to the Leighton Building’s labs and to go to the Alston Observatory for certain practicals.
This is beneficial as it allows me to put some of what I’ve learnt in lectures into practice to confirm and consolidate that knowledge.”
Alongside the quality of the lectures, Stephen speaks highly of the lecturers that lead them.
“The lecturers across the board are helpful, approachable, and supportive.
I also find it a comfort that they are understanding and patient.
They consistently provide feedback and resources, and lectures are always delivered clearly in a way that’s easy to understand.
The lecturers are easily one of the highlights of the course.”
Outside of the lecture theatre, Stephen spoke of the benefits that come with being based on our Preston Campus.
“Preston’s city centre is nothing more than a 15-minute walk away.
I don’t have to deal with buses or trains.
From my accommodation I can just walk to lectures or to the shops, and it doesn’t take long.”
" I’ve felt very welcome here and supported in my studies, I have not a single regret in choosing UCLan as my university "
In the future, Stephen plans to work within the sector or use the skills he’s learning on the course to work in a related area.
“My third-year project involves designing an app and I’m quite enjoying that.
I can use that to get my foot in the door for a software or game design job as well.”
For those planning their path into undergraduate study, Stephen offered the following comments.
“I’ve felt very welcome here and supported in my studies, I have not a single regret in choosing UCLan as my university.”

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/student-life/commuting:
If you're a local student thinking about travelling to uni, this page has all the information you need to help you decide.
Where possible, we do encourage more sustainable travel choices.
This is part of our travel plan and commitment to reducing our carbon emissions.
Don’t worry if you’re not living on campus, you'll still have a great experience.
Students living at home and commuting to uni have plenty of opportunities to get involved with student life outside the classroom.
View our frequently asked questions about commuting.
Our social spaces are a great place to catch up with friends if you travel into campus from home.
You can get involved in lots of activities in the SU building.
Plus, the Oasis Faith and Spirituality Centre provides a calm, welcoming environment for everyone.
As well as the library, you have access to lots of learning opportunities.
You could go to our Worldwise Centre to explore languages and connect with others.
Or develop your business expertise for success at our Propeller Hub .
Don’t worry if you’re not living on campus.
You’ll have plenty of opportunities to get involved with student life outside the classroom.
Plus, if you're a local student from Preston or Burnley, you have the added bonus of being a tour guide for your new friends.
Join a society to meet like-minded people, make friends, and explore social activities outside your course.
Don't see a society you like?
Societies are student-led so you can create your own with the help of the SU.
From trying new hobbies, sharing your nationality or expressing your creative passions.
There is a society for everyone.
Staying active is a mood booster and playing sport is a great way to meet new people.
You'll enjoy a welcoming home-from-home feeling and form friendships for life.
If you're serious about sport, you could join a competitive team and represent us in many clubs.
You're a commuter student if you live at your home address whilst attending classes.
This could be with your family, partner, friends, or alone.
Your 'home' and 'term-time' address will usually be the same.
Some students will live close to their university, whilst others come from different areas within the region.
Some commuter students may even come from even further afield depending on how much time they need to spend on campus.
There are many benefits of commuting to university whilst living at home.
Saving money It's likely that you will be able to save money on accommodation, especially if you are living at home with family.
You might even be able to save money on food and other living expenses.
You can also choose to live in an area that might be slightly cheaper than the city or town centre.
Support from family and friends Having a good support network is really important when studying at university.
It's an amazing experience, but it can be stressful at times.
Living at home means you have that support network readily available to you.
Fewer distractions Commuting to university means you'll be able to study in a distraction free environment.
You'll be able to avoid lively university halls and you'll get a clear boundary between your academic and social life.
You're likely to know the best places to go Being familiar with the local area can be helpful.
You can share your knowledge about the best cafes, restaurants, and places to relax.
You'll also be able to act as a tour guide to new friends who are not from the area.
The decision on whether to live on campus or commute will always depend on your own personal circumstances.
According to a report by HEPI published in 2018 , over 20% of students in the UK are thought to live at home and commute to university.
This number is thought to have increased since the Covid-19 pandemic.
You'll absolutely be able to get involved in university life whilst living at home.
You can join societies and attend Students' Union events.
You also have use of all the campus facilities and can socialise with friends.
Plus, you can engage in online communities or set up your own.
Check out the information above for more ideas on how to get involved in student life.
Our campuses have excellent transport links, making it easy to commute to classes.
You can view the information on commuting to campus for tips on getting the train, bus or cycling.
If you want detailed information on how to get to each campus, visit the following pages:
Commuting as a student often results in significant cost savings compared to living on or near campus.
If you're living at home, you might be living rent-free or paying very little rent.
This means you may also be fortunate enough not to worry about utility bills, or other associated expenses.
You could also be living outside of the city or town which may be cheaper than living closer to campus.
Commuting also allows you to have more control over your food expenses.
You can prepare meals at home and may even be able to share meals with family or whoever you live with.
How much you save will vary depending on your individual circumstances.
However, being a commuter student can provide financial benefits and you might be able to manage your money more efficiently.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/legal/privacy-notices/graduation-ceremonies:
Please see below for the University’s graduation ceremonies privacy notice.
For more details please contact the Information Governance Manager .
This privacy notice tells you what to expect us to do with your personal information when you attend a graduation ceremony as a graduand or guest.
Personal information (or personal data) is any information which relates to and identifies you.
Data protection legislation (the UK General Data Protection Regulation (UK GDPR) and the Data Protection Act 2018 (DPA)) set out how we should handle your personal information.
The University of Lancashire (formerly the University of Central Lancashire) is the controller for the personal information we process, unless otherwise stated.
We are registered with the Information Commissioner’s Office and our registration number is Z5512420.
There are many ways you can contact us, including by phone, email, social media and post.
View our main contact details .
The University's Information Governance Manager and Data Protection Officer can be contacted via email .
Further information and contact details can be found on our Data Protection web page .
If you are eligible to receive an award at one of our graduation ceremonies, the University uses information held in our student records systems, as well as information you provide via your graduation booking form and our graduation ticketing system, and during any email or telephone exchanges.
If you are attending a ceremony as a guest, we use information about you, such as details about any access requirements you may require, that is provided by our graduands on the graduation booking form, via our graduation ticketing system or in any other communications.
We also use photographs and video footage of all attendees at our graduation ceremonies, captured by official photographers and University staff.
We use your personal data to organise, manage and administer our graduation ceremonies, and for marketing and publicity purposes.
Further information about the main purposes for which we use your personal data is set out below:
Administration purposes
As a graduand, we use your information to communicate with you by email, post and telephone about your eligibility to attend the ceremony; to collect information about you and your guests, including any information you choose to provide about disability, dietary and access requirements to enable us to accommodate any special arrangements you have requested; to produce tickets and manage associated payments; to manage guest numbers and plan seating, ceremonial and catering arrangements; and to update your contact details in our student and alumni records systems.
We will also use your information to produce graduation brochures which will include your name, qualification obtained and degree classification.
These will be provided shortly before the ceremony to all graduands who have confirmed their intention to attend a ceremony.
Marketing, publicity and live streaming
Professional photographers and videographers will be present at our ceremonies.
University staff will also take photographs and videos.
We will use photographs and video of graduands, graduates and guests at our graduation ceremonies for marketing and publicity purposes, which will include using images and video on our website and social media channels, and in other types of online and hardcopy publications.
We will also film the ceremony, which will be streamed live on YouTube.
A recording of the ceremony will remain on YouTube to view after the live event.
Individual photographs of graduands and graduates will be taken at the ceremony and will be made available to purchase from our official photographer.
Providing an alumni service
When you complete and pass your course, you automatically become a University alumnus but you need to sign up to the Alumni Network to continue to hear from us.
You can find out information about the University's Alumni Network and the benefits associated with being a member on the Alumni pages of our website.
If you opt in to receiving communications from the Alumni Network, your information will be used to send those communications using the channels you have selected.
We will use information about you to offer you an alumni network, which includes keeping you informed of University news, publications and events, career opportunities, academic and professional development opportunities and much more.
Further information is available in the Alumni, Donors and Supporters Privacy Notice.
When you complete your graduation booking form, we will use the information on your form to update your contact details in our alumni system.
You can opt out of receiving communications from the Alumni Network at any time by contacting the Alumni team.
Security and crime prevention
The University operates a CCTV system for security and crime prevention purposes, among other things, which includes the use of body worn video devices.
The CCTV system covers University buildings (inside and outside) and public areas across our campuses.
Your images are likely to be captured by the CCTV system while you are on, in, or near University premises.
CCTV footage will be used to maintain the security of the University community, enhance public safety, prevent and detect crime and apprehend and prosecute offenders.
CCTV footage may be used, where there is a lawful basis, in the investigation of complaints and allegations made under the University’s rules, regulations, procedures and codes of practice.
Further information is available in our CCTV Privacy Notice .
Research, reporting and statistics
We will use your information to compile statistics and for research, surveys and market research to help with corporate planning, reporting and University administration, as well as for statutory reporting purposes to external agencies, where required.
We will also use your information to ensure and monitor our compliance with legislation including laws relating the equality and health and safety.
The University relies on the following lawful bases from the UK GDPR to process information about you for the purposes set out in this notice:
Article 6(1)(a) and Article 9(2)(a) , which allow us to process personal data where you provide your consent.
If you provide information to us about any disabilities, medical needs or other health data to request any special arrangements during the ceremony, you are consenting to us using that information to make reasonable adjustments.
If you are a graduand you must ensure you have the consent of your guests to provide any similar information relating to them.
Once we have taken action to make any reasonable adjustments, we will rely on Article 6(1)(c), Article 9(2)(g) UK GDPR and Schedule 1(6) DPA to retain information to demonstrate how we have acted on your request, to comply with equality legislation.
Article 6(1)(c) , which allows us to process personal data when it is necessary to comply with a legal obligation.
We are legally required to process some information for the purposes of complying with equality and health and safety laws.
Article 6(1)(f) , which allows us to process personal data where it is in our, or someone else’s, legitimate interests to do so and it does not unduly prejudice your rights and freedoms.
We rely on this condition to, among other things:
We share your information with some external organisations, including suppliers who are processing personal data on our behalf to provide services to us.
We only share your personal data with another person or organisation where the law allows us to and we consider it to be appropriate under the circumstances.
The external parties we may share information with include the following:
When we live stream your ceremony or publish a recording of the ceremony, footage of those in attendance who are captured on the video will be available worldwide on the internet, via YouTube.
Images and video footage used in marketing and publicity materials will also be available worldwide via the University website and social media channels, and other online publications.
We retain information about your award indefinitely.
We will retain information you provide on your graduation booking form and other administrative information associated with the ceremony for six months after the completion of the ceremony.
If you book on one ceremony then defer your place to attend a different, later ceremony, we will retain your information for six months after the ceremony that you attend.
Some of the information we hold will form part of our alumni records.
We hold records about our alumni indefinitely.
You can see how we process your personal data as one of our alumni in the Alumni, Donors and Supporters privacy notice .
Under data protection law, you have rights we need to make you aware of.
The rights available to you depend on our reason for processing your information.
Further information about each of these rights can be found on the Information Commissioner’s Office website .
To make a request to exercise any of these rights, please contact the Information Governance Manager & Data Protection Officer on DPFOIA@uclan.ac.uk .
Your right of access
You have the right to ask us for copies of your personal information.
This right always applies.
There are some exemptions, which means you may not always receive all the information we process.
For further information or to make a request, please see the data protection pages of our website.
Your right to rectification
You have the right to ask us to rectify information you think is inaccurate.
You also have the right to ask us to complete information you think is incomplete.
Your right to erasure
You have the right to ask us to erase your personal information in certain circumstances.
Your right to restriction of processing
You have the right to ask us to restrict the processing of your information in certain circumstances.
Your right to object to processing
You have the right to object to any processing we carry out, if we carry it out on the basis that it forms part of our public task or is in our legitimate interests.
You also have the right to object to your personal information being used for direct marketing purposes.
Your right to data portability
This only applies to information you have given us.
You have the right to ask that we transfer the information you gave us from one organisation to another or give it to you.
The right only applies if we are processing information because we have your consent or because it is necessary for your student contract, and the processing is automated.
We work to high standards when it comes to processing your personal information.
If you have queries or concerns, please contact the Graduation Team, or the Information Governance Manager & Data Protection Officer, and we will respond.
If you remain dissatisfied, you can make a complaint about the way we process your personal information to the Information Commissioner’s Office, which is the UK supervisory authority for data protection.
Further information can be found on the data protection pages of our website.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/contact/social-media:
Stay connected no matter where you are.
Use our social media directory to keep up-to-date with our latest news and events.
There are currently no social media competitions running.
Please follow our official channels for any future opportunities.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/support/financial-support/student-finance:
Our student finance guide can help you understand fees, loans and financial support.
A student loan is made up of two parts:
The government pays a tuition fee loan directly to the university.
This covers the cost of your course.
Find out more about UK tuition fees .
A maintenance loan is paid directly to you.
This is to help with living costs like accommodation, food and travel.
The amount you receive will depend on your household income and whether you live away or at home.
Your maintenance loan will be based on your parents' income up to the age of 25, unless:
That means even if you've moved out, your maintenance loan may still be based on your parents' income up to the age of 25.
Find out more on GOV.UK .
A student loan isn't like other loans.
It won't affect your credit score.
However, some lenders may consider your student loan repayments when deciding whether to give you a mortgage or other finance.
If your parents are divorced, your student finance application will be based on the household income of the parent you live with the most.
This will include their partner's income if they are married or live together.
If you live with both parents equally, you can choose which parent supports your application.
If you are over 25, you are classed as an independent student.
That means your maintenance loan will not be based on your parent's income.
It will be based on your household income.
This will exclude your parents' or your own income.
This could include a partner or adult children.
If you have previously studied at university and had student finance, this could affect how many years of tuition fee loans you are entitled to.
You're allowed an additional year of tuition fee loans.
That means if you are completing a three year degree, you could get up to four years of funding.
However, any previous years of study will be subtracted from that.
For example, if you're applying for a three year degree but previously completed two years of another degree, you'll only be entitled to a maximum of two further years of tuition fee loans.
This does not apply to NHS funded courses.
If you stopped your previous degree for serious personal reasons (such as pregnancy, illness or bereavement), you may still be able to get funding for your full course.
Visit the GOV.UK website to find out more.
It is very unlikely that your maintenance loan will cover all your costs.
Most students get a part-time job to help pay for things.
You may also get money from parents, savings or a scholarship or bursary .
Your parents or partner are generally expected to help with costs at university.
That means the more they earn, the less you will receive in a maintenance loan.
This is because the government expects them to contribute towards living costs.
You should discuss this before starting university.
Ask how much money they're able to contribute each month.
Add this to your maintenance loan to come up with a student budget .
If this isn't enough, you could consider getting a part-time job or applying for a scholarship or bursary.
If your family can't help towards your living costs, there's lots of other financial support available.
The amount you receive from your maintenance loan is determined by your household income, as well as whether you live away or at home.
There's lots of financial support available at the University.
We have a dedicated financial support team to help with your money problems.
We can help you access scholarships, bursaries and even grants.
We can also refer to other agencies for further help.
You need to be enrolled at university to receive your student finance.
That's because we need to confirm that you're studying here before Student Finance will release any money.
If your loan is delayed, make sure you've completed your enrolment first.
If you have completed your enrolment but still haven't received your loan, you should contact our financial support team .
We can help you find out why it is delayed.
We can even contact Student Finance on your behalf.
You will only start paying back your student loan once you earn over a certain threshold .
This starts in the April after you have finished your course.
A small amount will automatically be deducted from your salary every month.
The amount you repay is based on the salary you earn, not how much money you owe.
If you become unemployed or your salary falls below the threshold, then your repayments will automatically stop.
They will restart when you earn above the threshold again.
Your debt will be written off after 30 or 35 years, depending on the plan you're on.
Economists have predicted that most students will never pay back their entire student loan.
You can find out how much you'll repay on the Government website .

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/employability/jobs-for-students:
Going to university can be a big financial commitment.
We know a lot of students work part-time to help fund their studies and social life.
If you'd like to work for the University during your time here, you can apply to work part-time as a student ambassador or other similar role.
It’s a fantastic way to meet other students and get involved in University life.
You'll also help prospective students and their families find out more about what we offer.
You responsibilities could include:
The Students' Union (SU) also have a range of student jobs available.
This can include everything from working in the SU bar, to helping set up and run campus events.
These roles are part-time and flexible, designed to fit around your studies.
They actively encourage applicants from diverse backgrounds, even if you don't match the job description perfectly.
Most roles are confined to term-time.
Preston is a vibrant student city, so there are lots of part-time jobs available with local businesses.
Here are some areas you might consider:
Once you enrol as a student, our Careers Team can help you find a part-time job.
You can also search and apply through CareerEDGE, Handshake or directly with the business.
Our Careers Team can help you with finding part-time work, paid placements and summer internships.
Careers can also provide you with expert advice on planning for your future career.
Careers offer regular workshops and one-to-one appointments to help you:
You can also access a wealth of online resources.
These include aptitude tests and complete CV solutions to the very latest vacancies at your fingertips.
There are daily Careers Drop-ins with the Careers Team at the Preston Campus, inside the Student Centre.
When you’re at University you can use our CareerEdge portal to search for local part-time job vacancies.
You'll also find lots of useful content including e-learning modules and industry reports.
You can also download Handshake, the student and employer app.
Download it from Google Play or the Apple Store.
Here you'll see opportunities advertised by local companies who are interested in recruiting UCLan students.
For those on a student visa, you will be allowed to work a maximum of 20-hours per week during term time.
UKVI has defined a "week" as "a seven day period starting on a Monday and ending on a Sunday."
Outside of official University term times, you are allowed to work full-time.
The National Minimum Wage Act creates a minimum wage across the United Kingdom.
This includes international students.
To see the current rates, visit the GOV.UK National Minimum Wage and National Living Wage rates website .
The graduate route is a post-study work visa which allows you to stay in the UK to work or look for work for at least two-years after your degree has been awarded.
To learn more about the graduate route, including how to apply and eligibility criteria, visit the GOV.UK Graduate visa website .

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/support/financial-support/budgeting:
Budgeting can help your money stretch further.
Read our guide to making a student budget.
The first step to create a student budget is to find out how much money you'll have each month.
This will prevent you from spending more than you earn.
You might get money from:
Don't forget that your maintenance loan isn't paid monthly.
It's split between three instalments in September, January and April.
You'll have to budget your loan to last until your next instalment.
Now that you know how much money you'll get each month, work out how much you need to spend.
This should only include essential spending like rent, food and any monthly bills.
This will show the minimum amount of money you need each month.
Once you know how much money you have and how much you need to spend, you can create a student budget.
You can use a budget calculator to help with this.
Enter your total income and expenditures, and the tool will tell you how much you have left over for other costs.
You can decide how you want to spend this - whether it's nights out, new clothes or a holiday fund.
Our students also have access to Blackbullion , a financial education app.
This has helpful lessons explaining how to budget your money.
It can also help you find a scholarship or bursary while you're at university.
Here's an example of a student budget:
Your maintenance loan is unlikely to cover all of your costs.
If you don't have enough money, you can try to find an additional source of income.
This could include a part-time job , money from family, or a scholarship or bursary.
You should also review your current spending.
Go through your monthly bank statement to see what you're spending money on.
This can help to identify areas to cut back.
For example, if you're spending a lot of money on takeaways, perhaps you could cook more at home instead.
Check out our article on money saving tips .
If you're struggling, get in touch with our Financial Support Team .
They can provide further help and guidance.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/student-stories/five-budget-hacks-for-saving-money:
During my first year at university, I struggled to manage my finances.
I didn't have a clear understanding of where my money was going and often found myself running out of money before the end of the month.
It was a stressful situation that left me feeling overwhelmed and frustrated.
Eventually, I decided to take control of my finances by creating a budget.
I tracked my expenses for a month and identified areas where I could cut back on spending.
For example, I realised that I was spending a significant amount of money on coffee and eating out.
I made a conscious effort to cut back on these expenses by making my coffee at home and bringing my lunch to campus.
I also started using the Notes app on my phone to help me track my expenses and monitor my progress.
It was a learning process, but over time, I became more comfortable with managing my finances.
By implementing a few simple budget hacks, you can save money without sacrificing your quality of life.
In this article, we'll explore five budget hacks for saving money whilst at uni.
One of the most significant expenses for students is food.
Eating out or ordering takeaways can quickly drain your budget.
Instead, plan your meals ahead of time and cook at home.
You can save money by buying groceries in bulk and preparing meals in advance.
Consider preparing your meals for the week on a Sunday, so you always have something to eat during the week.
When shopping for groceries, make sure to shop smart.
Look for deals and discounts and buy in bulk where possible.
You can also save money by buying supermarket-own brands instead of branded products.
Don't be afraid to compare prices at different stores to find the best deals.
As a student, you're entitled to a range of discounts on everything from food to clothing.
Make sure to take advantage of these discounts by always carrying your student ID with you.
Many shops, restaurants, and cinemas offer discounts to students, so it's worth checking before you buy anything.
Buying second-hand is an excellent way to save money whilst at uni.
You can find great deals on everything from textbooks to clothing.
Check out charity shops, second-hand bookstores, and online marketplaces like Vinted to find what you need.
You can also sell items you no longer need to make some extra cash.
Entertainment can be a significant expense for students.
However, there are many ways to save money whilst still having fun.
Look for free or low-cost events in your local area, such as film screenings or live music.
Consider sharing a Netflix account with friends or attending matinee showings at the cinema.
You can also save money by hosting a dinner party or game night instead of going out to eat or drink.
In conclusion, saving money whilst at uni requires a bit of planning and creativity.
By implementing these five budget hacks, you can reduce your expenses and save money without sacrificing your quality of life.
Remember, every penny counts, so be mindful of your spending and always look for ways to save.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/student-stories/leah-top-budgeting-tips:
Leah, Building Conservation and Adaptation - MSc/PGDip/PGCert Student
For many people, starting university is the first time where you will experience living independently and looking after your own money.
Since I started university, I have given myself a weekly allowance of money which I have to stick to.
Here are some tips to help you budget, so that you’re not living off Pot Noodles for most of the semester:
As tempting as it may seem when your student finance money reaches your bank account, don’t go and spend it all at once.
For most people, your rent will need to come out of this payment.
If you go and spend every penny in the first week, then you won’t have enough money to pay your rent or to eat.
When you receive your money, come up with a plan about how you’re going to spend it.
Check the calendar to see how many weeks you’ve got to make it last (it’s probably longer than you’ll originally think).
This doesn’t need to be a super detailed plan, it’s just so you’ve got a vague idea of how much money you have, how long it has to last and how much you could have leftover by the time your next payment is due.
When calculating this, remember to deduct any bills such as your rent, or your phone bill.
I personally give myself slightly less money than I could give myself.
This means that I’m not spending all of the money in my bank account, and I have a little bit of leeway in case I have any unexpected outgoings or emergencies (for example, giving myself £25 a week when I could have a maximum of £40).
A good way to keep track of your spending is to withdraw your allowance each week as cash.
For example, if you gave yourself a £30 allowance each week for food and necessities, it’s easy to see when you’re close to your spending limit, as you’ll be running out of cash in your purse/wallet.
If you don’t use cash and pay for everything using your card, app-based mobile banks like Monzo, Starling and Monese make it easy for you to put your money into different pots and put aside money for each week.
If you're worried your student loan won't stretch enough to cover your living expenses, you could consider getting a part-time job to give yourself a little extra cash each month.
There are lots of jobs available for students, from retail jobs to restaurant and bar work; you can even work for the university as a Student Ambassador.
Aldi and Lidl are your friends.
If I head to either of these with a shopping list, I can easily do a weekly shop for less than £15 and end up with two or three bags of shopping.
Preston market also has some great, budget-friendly options for food.
Shop locally for fresh fruit, vegetables, gourmet cheese and organic meat.
Supermarkets often have a reduced section full of great bargains, so it is worth visiting later supermarkets later on in the evening for access to discounted goods.
You can always freeze things you won't eat any time soon.
Remember that if you receive money from Student Finance, it has to last you three months.
Once your rent has been deducted, you might not have very much left to spend.
So just be mindful and before you go and spend hundreds of pounds on clothes.
Think to yourself “do I really need this?” and the answer is likely to be no.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/student-stories/part-time-work:
by Hollie Russell, MSc Forensic Science
The majority of my shifts are between 9am and 5pm - Monday to Friday, with occasional shifts on a Saturday if there is an event taking place.
Most of my lectures are on a Tuesday so I don’t work as an ambassador on that day.
I use my free time between lectures to complete some of my uni work, usually in the canteen or social spaces.
If I have been working a shift during the day, I aim to complete one to two hours of study when I get home.
Typically, I undertake a weekly shift for the Course Enquiries team where I answer emails and phones.
I also take school groups around the university and participate in sessions.
These sessions take place in classrooms and in the Young Scientist Centre with them.
I also input data for the Alumni team and train other Student Ambassadors about the campus.
At the weekends I work at open days and applicant day events to help deliver campus tours and subject sessions for prospective students.
The role helps me financially as it pays better than most jobs in Preston.
This allows me to work less hours for the same amount of pay, plus I get the flexibility of choosing my own hours.
I save the money I earn to enable me to go on holidays and social activities like bowling, going to the cinema and day trips to cities like Manchester and Liverpool with my friends.
I use a diary and timetable to help me balance and schedule both my uni work and my shifts as a student ambassador.
I write down all my lectures and hours I am working so I know what I am doing each day.
I plan in all of my assignments and exams, I aim to do them as soon as they are set, so that I have the longest time possible to complete and check them.
I create checklists for the work I need to complete such as writing up lecture notes, writing assignments and tutorial work so that I can check them off once completed.
I plan each week, listing out what I want to achieve each day/week.
When I have assignments and exams I do not work as many hours in my ambassador role so that I can pay the necessary time and attention to my studies.
Weekends and evenings are my contingency time where I complete any outstanding uni work and see friends.
During the holidays or reading weeks I tend to go home.
I usually don't work any ambassador shifts so that I have a break from university and I am able to focus on any work I need to complete.
Being a student ambassador is a great opportunity because of how flexible the shifts are.
This allows me to prioritise university when I have lots of deadlines and pick up more shifts at quieter times.
It's easy to become a student ambassador and the roles available are varied and can help you build skills that will benefit you after you graduate

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/student-stories/cheap-things-to-do-in-preston:
There are many places to eat out in Preston that won’t be too hard on your bank account.
Just because you’re trying to save money doesn’t mean you have to miss out on good food.
Meiz (across from the train station) specialises in Japanese food, with a 50% off lunch menu Monday to Friday.
In Preston there are a variety of activity centres to find things to do.
The largest is Level , which has bowling, laser tag and crazy golf all in one place.
It’s a great way to spend time with friends or make new ones.
There’s always a Freshers event here, which is a good way to break the ice with your flatmates.
With Avenham and Miller Parks close to campus, it's not hard to find scenic walk routes.
There's a Japanese Garden and natural amphitheatre, leaving a lot of scope for activities to have fun with.
You could go for a solo bike ride or a picnic with friends to soak up the sun.
The government price cap means that travel around Preston is now easier and cheaper than ever – with any single fare limited to £2 per trip (£1 on Sundays and after 7pm).
Going from place to place is a great way to explore around Preston – even as far as Liverpool.
There’s no shortage of places to study in Preston – be it in your own room or further away.
Studying in coffee shops (especially those with student discounts like Black Sheep Coffee) is a relaxing way to learn without sitting in complete silence.
Preston is a vibrant town that hosts events all year round, so there will always be something to do.
Events could include:
Most students want to go out and explore, but it’s important to remember what’s available to you from the university as well.
The 24/7 library allows for group study and easy access to information.
The Student Centre has an amazing café for relaxing, as well as the Bee Garden on the rooftop for a chance to sit in the sun.
There's also lots of events on at the university, so keep an eye out on newsletters.
There’s lots to do in Preston, and moving here does not need to be scary!
Check out some of our Student Life pages to find out more.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/student-stories/working-as-a-student:
Having a job alongside your studies can be a very rewarding experience.
It allows you to earn money while developing new skills you can use in the future.
There are a range of jobs that you can undertake whilst you study, these can vary from hospitality, retail, starting a new business, or finding something within your future industry.
During my first year, I worked part-time as a bartender at a local sports club.
I’d normally work a couple of weeknights and Saturdays.
This worked really well for me because my regular shifts allowed me to plan out my uni work for my classes and plan to spend time with friends.
However, working on weekends did mean that I missed out on some social occasions with my friends.
On the other hand, the community feeling at the club was a great way to meet new people.
A role in hospitality is an excellent way to learn more about customer service, helping you to develop skills such as time management, teamwork, and confidence.
I've tried out some side hustles such as auditing and selling clothes online.
The best thing about this was the flexibility it offered me, as I could pick my own hours around my existing commitments.
There was always the option to take on additional work which was great when I had the time.
I now work as a student ambassador at the university, which makes the perfect side hustle.
It offers a range of shifts with great flexibility.
I enjoy this role as it means exploring different areas of the university and having a wide selection of responsibilities.
You may prefer to find a role that will provide industry related work experience for your course.
Having the chance to put theory into practice can be a fantastic way to gain context around what you’re studying.
This will prove valuable when searching for graduate roles in the future.
While working, many students choose to volunteer as a way to give back to their local community.
The university has a great range of opportunities with varying time commitments, so you can volunteer as little or as much as you’d like!
There are also local charities which have roles available.
The university careers team is a great resource for you to use in your job search.
They can help point out some great resources, find local role vacancies and support in developing interview skills.
There are also Careers Fairs which take place to provide more awareness about job opportunities in the local area and after you graduate.
The Propeller hub is an excellent way to develop skills through workshops and to start your own business with the guidance of a mentor.
My advice when looking for a job alongside studies is to find something you enjoy and stick at it.
It can be hard to find the motivation to keep going if you don't like the role you are in.
Make sure you choose a role that allows flexibility with your studies so that you are able to keep on top of your learning.
Additionally consider if you will need to go on placements or travel home at points during the year.
A student job is a valuable opportunity to gain important skills while earning an income to support yourself through your studies.
Picking the right role that will fit with your timetable is the best way to get the most out of the two.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/international-students/visa-advice:
If you're a prospective student, please read through this information carefully before you apply for your visa, to find out whether you need one, how to apply, and what documents you may need.
If you are an overseas student planning to study in the UK you will need to apply for a visa in order to study here.
Depending on your length of study you will need one of the following types of visa:
Please read the information below to decide which type of visa you will need then click on the links to find more details.
You should apply for either type of visa before you leave your home country; doing this is called applying for ‘entry clearance’.
If you are unsure if you need a visa in order to study in the UK please read the gov.uk Check if you need a UK visa webpage.
Please note all information is correct at the time of publication.
Student Route visa is for you if you are coming to the UK to study here on a full-time programme of study for more than 6 months.
You may be allowed to do limited work on a Student Route visa; you may be allowed to bring your family with you (provided you meet certain criteria) and you may be allowed to extend your Student Route visa in the UK, depending on your circumstances.
You must apply for a Student Route visa in your home country; you cannot apply for a Student Route visa when you arrive in the UK.
It is very important that you prepare carefully before you apply for a Student Route visa.
Your CAS number will be sent to you in an unconditional offer letter from UCLan; you will receive your CAS number up to a maximum of 6 months before your course starts.
Please note:
For further information please visit the gov.uk Student Visa – your Partner and Children webpage.
Please note: We cannot guarantee that you will get a second CAS if your visa application is refused; please read the information below to help make sure that your visa application is successful.
A variety of visa processing services may be available depending on where you are applying from.
Please check the gov.uk Get a faster decision on your visa or settlement application webpage for more information.
Immigration rules can change at short notice and you would need to be aware of any updates.
Before applying for your visa you should refer to both the Student and Child Visa Caseworker Guidance Document in conjunction with the Immigration Rules: Appendix Student in order to ensure you are familiar with any updates to the immigration rules before you make your visa application.
When you can apply depends on whether you’re applying from inside or outside the UK.
Applying from outside the UK
The earliest you can apply for a visa is 6 months before you start your course.
You’ll usually get a decision on your visa within 3 weeks.
You can also visit the gov.uk Visa decision waiting times: applications outside the UK webpage for the processing times in your country.
Applying from inside the UK
The earliest you can apply is 3 months before your course starts.
You must apply before your current visa expires.
Your new course must begin within 28 days of your current visa expiring.
You’ll usually get a decision within 8 weeks.
Evidence you will need to have when you apply for your visa
Information under 1.
and 2.
below applies to all students; information under 3.
and 4.
applies to certain students only; please read through carefully first to check which sections are relevant to you.
Unconditional Offer Letter which contains your CAS (Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies) Please check all details on your unconditional offer letter as soon as you receive it.
If you believe there are any errors in it, or if any details have changed (eg.
passport number) please inform the University Admissions team .
Money You will need to demonstrate that you have:
For students funded by a parent or parents
This money must be in cash funds in a bank account, not on credit cards or in the form of assets or shares.
If you’re using money of a parent or parents you’ll need to show they have the required amount of money in an account.
You can provide:
The bank statement should show information such as:
You can provide a download of electronic bank statements as long as it has this information.
You do not need to have these stamped by the bank.
The Home Office may do verification checks with banks.
If they are unable to verify the funds, then your application may be refused.
If you are using a bank account in your parent’s or parents’ name(s) to provide the money you need for your visa application, you must also provide your original birth certificate and an original letter from your parent or parents that clearly states that the money in the account is for your tuition fees and/or living expenses in the UK.
Your parent’s or parents’ bank account must be a personal (not business) account.
When providing bank statements or letters as part of your Student visa application, we recommend that the document includes the contact details of your local bank branch.
This information can assist UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) in verifying your financial evidence, helping to prevent potential delays or refusals.
Ensure that the bank's name, address, telephone number, and email address are clearly displayed on the document.
While not mandatory, including local branch contact details is considered best practice and can facilitate the verification process
ATAS (Academic Technology Approval Scheme) Some students who are going to study certain courses in engineering, science or technology need to have ATAS clearance from the UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) before they can apply for a Student Route visa.
Your unconditional offer letter from UCLan will show your CAH code and should state whether you need an ATAS certificate.
You can also visit the gov.uk Find out if you need an ATAS certificate webpage to find if you require an ATAS certificate.
You should allow plenty of time to get an ATAS certificate; it usually takes around 20 working days to process the ATAS application.
There is no fast-track service.
Please read the gov.uk guidance on applying for an ATAS certificate carefully before you make your ATAS application.
TB Test Students from certain countries need to have a valid TB test before they can apply for a Student Route visa.
Please visit the gov.uk Tuberculosis tests for visa applicants webpage to check whether you need a TB test.
The website lists approved test clinics where you can have the test.
Once you have collected together all the documents and evidence you need for your Student Route visa, as set out above, you can apply online .
It should take you only a short time to complete your online application; please ensure you register first to create an account; this takes just a few minutes and you can do this immediately before you do your online application.
On your visa application you will be given the choice to either collect your Biometric Residence Permit (BRP) (see below) from a post office or to collect it from UCLan.
If you choose to collect your BRP from a post office, you should arrange for it to be delivered to a convenient location within the UK, close to your term-time accommodation.
Biometrics
‘Biometrics’ means facial image and fingerprints; all Student Route applicants need to provide facial image and fingerprints as part of the visa application process.
You usually do this when you attend an appointment at the British Embassy or Visa Application Centre (VAC); after you complete your online visa application, you will receive an appointment time and date.
Check where your Visa Application Centre is.
Interviews
Some Student Route visa applicants may be required to attend either one or two interviews at the Visa Application Centre.
Interviews are done to establish that you are a genuine student.
The first interview is done via Skype or video link with UKVI staff based in the UK and lasts around 5 minutes and is recorded.
A transcript of the recording is then sent to the Entry Clearance Office in the Visa Application Centre who then decides whether a second interview is needed in order to be assured that you are a genuine student.
Second interviews are done face-to-face in the Visa Application Centre with the Entry Clearance Officer.
Please take a look at the Credibility Interview information we have produced which contains useful information regarding the credibility interview process.
You'll find this at the end of the page.
Receiving your visa
Your visa will be given to you in two stages:
The first stage is a sticker (called a ‘vignette’) which covers one page in your passport.
The vignette is valid for only 30 days from your planned date of travel to the UK.
The second stage is when you receive your Biometric Residence Permit (BRP); the BRP covers the remaining length of your course, plus some time after your course which is known as the 'wrap-up period'.
The amount of ‘wrap-up period’ you will receive depends on the length of your course.
You will need to collect the BRP yourself after you arrive in the UK.
You will receive correspondence from The Home Office which contains the address where to collect your BRP from.
Post office collection
If you selected to collect your BRP from a post office you will have been asked to identify the post office by postcode which offers the BRP collection service.
The BRP letter you received from the Home Office will confirm the delivery address and date the BRP will be available from.
No appointment is necessary to collect your BRP.
You should not attempt to collect your BRP if you have been required to undergo a quarantine or self-isolation period on arrival in the UK.
You should only collect your BRP after this period has expired as anyone trying to do so may be refused service by the post office.
When you go to the Post Office to collect your BRP, you will need to take your passport containing your Entry Clearance Vignette (ECV) with you; full guidance can be found on the Government website .
If you are under 18 years of age you cannot collect your BRP on your own and you must nominate another person who is over 18 to do this and they need to accompany you to the post office.
In this circumstance we would advise you to nominate someone who meets the criteria and is within your bubble, either a family member or a flat/housemate.
Please see details at the Government website .
After you have collected your BRP please check that it is correct; you should check the spelling of your name, the date of birth, the work conditions and the length of your visa.
Please scan and send the front and back of your BRP to the Student Immigration and Compliance Team .
We will upload this onto your file on the UCLan Student Record Database.
When on campus activity resumes, we will be required to check the original copy of the BRP.
You will be invited to attend an appointment for it to be checked against the copy we have on the student record which will then fulfil the Home Office documentary requirements.
The University Alternative Collection Location (ACL)
The University main campus is currently closed for BRP deliveries.
If you selected the University as an ACL, you will need to follow the procedure below as the University has joined the Home Office Post Arrival Process (PAP) for BRP delivery.
The University is notified by the Home Office on a weekly basis of any student who used the ACL code and whose BRP has not yet been produced.
Once we receive this information from the Home Office, we will contact you to confirm that you are in the UK by requesting that you send us a clear picture of the stamped Entry Clearance Vignette (ECV) from your passport which confirms your arrival.
We will also request that you provide us with an address that you will be staying at for next 28 days so that we can ask for the Home Office to produce your BRP and arrange for it to be delivered to you.
After you receive your BRP please check that it is correct; you should check the spelling of your name, the date of birth, the work conditions and the length of your visa.
If your visa application is refused , UKVI will explain the reason/s for the refusal in a letter (called a visa refusal notice).
You must immediately scan and email this letter to the University Admissions team and let us know whether you might wish to request a refund of your tuition fee deposit.
If you decide to submit an Administrative Review to UKVI then you must immediately notify the University’s Student Immigration and Compliance Team to avoid having your sponsorship withdrawn.
If you decide to submit an Administrative Review to UKVI you must do this within 28 days of receiving your refusal notice.
An Administrative Review is appropriate if you think that UKVI has made a mistake in refusing your visa.
You cannot give UKVI new information in an Administrative Review.
UKVI will tell you the result of your Administrative Review within 28 days of the date you submit it to them.
For further advice or support with your Student Route visa application please contact the Student Immigration and Compliance Team.
The Standard Visitor Visa is for you if you are coming to the UK to study here for 6 months or less; for example if you are an exchange student coming to study for a semester or if you're coming to study on a short course e.g.
‘Postgraduate Dentistry.’
The earliest you can apply is 3 months before you travel to the UK.
Please be aware that you may not need to actually apply for a Standard Visitor Visa.
What you need to do depends on your nationality and what you plan to do in the UK.
Please see the gov.uk Check if you need a UK visa webpage for more information.
For more information on the Standard Visitor Visa and how to apply, visit the GOV.UK Standard Visitor Visa webpages.
You can apply for a Short-term study visa to study English language in the UK.
This visa is for English language courses lasting longer than 6 months and up to 11 months.
You must apply online before you come to the UK.
Please note that on a Short-term study visa:
For more information on the Short-term study visa for studying English in the UK, visit the GOV.UK Study English in the UK (Short-term study visa) webpages.
What is a credibility interview?
Credibility interviews are part of the Student Route visa application process, they were introduced by United Kingdom Visas and Immigration (UKVI) to try and ensure that only genuine students are studying in the UK.
The Home Office intends to interview most Student Route student applicants before granting them immigration permission to come to the UK.
Therefore you might be sent an email asking you to attend an interview as part of the application process.
You should check your email (including the 'junk' folder) regularly as your application is likely to be refused if you are asked to attend an interview and you do not do so without providing a reasonable explanation.
What is the purpose of the interview?
The interview is to check that you are a genuine student.
During the interview you will be asked questions about your background, immigration history, about the studies you are planning to undertake in the UK, why you applied to the University of Central Lancashire and your chosen course, how you intend to fund your studies and living costs in the UK and how your course fits your long term career aspirations.
The interviewer will also be checking your ability to converse well in English, if there is any issue with hearing them clearly, for example, via the video link or telephone signal, you should ensure that you raise this so that they are aware that it is a technical issue not one of comprehension.
Will I have to attend an interview?
This will depend on where you apply:
If you are applying for a Student Route visa from overseas you can expect to receive a short credibility interview during the application process.
If you are applying for a Student Route visa from the UK, you may be required to attend an interview.
You are more likely to be invited for an interview if there are discrepancies between the supporting documents you have provided and the information included in your visa application form, or if the caseworker considering your application requests an interview in order to obtain further information before they can make a decision on your application.
If you have previously studied a course at the same level as the new course and you received an academic progression justification statement alongside your CAS, you are more likely to be invited to an interview.
This is because the caseworker is required to assess whether the academic progression requirement is met.
When making this assessment, the caseworker will consider the level of the course, the subject of the new and previous course, your education history, the rationale for wishing to study the new course, and whether the justification statement sufficiently explains why you are applying to study a course at the same level.
If you are invited to an interview, you should be prepared to talk about the reasons why you want to pursue the new course.
What do I need to do before attending an interview?
You need to complete the Interview Reply Form and Declaration sent to you by the Home Office and email it to them before the deadline stated on the covering letter.
Please remember to bring the original signed forms to your interview.
You may be informed of the interview directly be email using the email address that you included in your visa application.
Please ensure that you check your junk and spam folders so that you don’t miss the interview request email.
How will the interview be conducted?
If you are overseas, the interview will take place at a Visa Application centre (VAC) as stated on the Home Office’s covering letter you will receive or by telephone.
The interview will be conducted in English and therefore your ability to communicate in English will be tested.
The interview will normally last for no more than 30 minutes and it will be conducted via video link with a Home Office member of staff in Sheffield in the UK if being conducted at the Visa Application Centre (VAC) or by telephone.
The report of the interview will then be sent to the Entry Clearance Officer who will consider it alongside your Student Route visa application and supporting documents.
You can request a copy of your interview transcript and we suggest that all students do this.
If you are invited for an interview in the UK, you can expect to be interviewed for around 30-60 minutes and this will usually be conducted by Skype with a Home Office member of staff in Sheffield in the UK.
You need to be aware that failure to attend an interview you have been invited to may result in your visa application being refused.
What questions may I be asked?
There are no set questions you will be asked.
However, common types of questions are listed below:
Q: Why did you choose the University of Central Lancashire?
Think about why you chose the UK rather than your home country, other English-speaking country or country which other students of your nationality choose to study in.
The University of Central Lancashire is a campus university within a city - what attracted you to the student lifestyle of a campus located within a thriving city?
Q: Why did you choose your course?
There may be many courses in the same subject area as the one you plan to study at the University of Central Lancashire.
What is it specifically about this course which you prefer and which suits you over other course available at other universities?
Think about your decision-making process.
Did you apply for other courses and why did you choose the University of Central Lancashire over them?
Q: How do your studies fit your career plans?
Think about what your plans are after you graduate, how will the knowledge and skills you gain from your course at the University of Central Lancashire help you with the type of work you hope to do in the future?
Does your course lead to any professional exemptions or qualifications and are these recognised in your home country?
Do you know what other students who graduated from the course went on to do, for example, the types of roles and organisations they now work for?
If the course you plan to study is at a similar academic level to previous studies, how does it represent progression and does it have a vocational focus?
If this is the case be prepared to explain this.
Q: If the costs of pursuing your course of study are higher in the UK than in your home country, why have you decided to incur the extra costs involved with studying in the UK?
Think about the advantages that a degree from the UK might give you and why you and/or your family are prepared to make this investment.
Have you made a realistic assessment of all the costs involved and how you plan to pay for them?
These costs include accommodation and cost of living.
Q: If you have previously studied in the UK - why have you chosen to return?
Think about how the new course relates to previous studies and how it might build on your previous learning to support your personal development and career aspirations.
Q: If you have had a long break in your studies, why are you returning to study now?
Think about how you explain your decision in the context of your long-term aspirations and career plans.
Q: Do you plan to work in the UK?
You cannot rely on funds from working to pay your course fees and living costs.
The main purpose for being in the UK is your studies so, if you do hope to work, think about how this will enhance your academic studies.
You also need to demonstrate an understanding of the hours you are allowed to work and typical rates of pay.
Q: How will you fund your studies?
The purpose of this question is to check that your funds are genuinely available to you for your studies.
As part of your application you will have submitted proof of your finances: ensure that you are very clear about the source and availability of these funds, also how you plan to pay for subsequent years fees if your course is more than a year in duration.
If you have official financial sponsorship make sure you are aware of the amounts and exactly what is covered.
If you have a loan, how will you afford to pay this back?
How much will your accommodation cost and are you clear about the cost of living in the UK?
Following your interview we would welcome any useful feedback you think it would be useful for us and other students to know.
Please email the Student Immigration and Compliance Team with ‘Credibility Interview Feedback’ as the subject title.
If you have any questions about the Visa process, please contact the University’s Student Immigration and Compliance Team

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/study/parents-and-carers-newsletter:
Sign up for our parents and carers newsletter for further guidance and advice on the application process and regular reminders on key dates and top tips.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/advice/what-to-take-to-university:
Wondering what to bring with you when you come to university?
We've put together an essential checklist so you know exactly what you need to bring before your first week.
Before we get stuck into the checklists, we have some top tips about your move to university:
The most important part is to plan your moving-in day.
Even before you have your essentials checklist complete, it's important to know exactly how you're planning your big move.
We recommend that you:
During our welcome week the Students' Union host a sale with items donated by students moving out of their accommodation or finishing university.
This means you can get cheap essentials and appliances, and it's sustainable too.
Money raised by this is invested back into the student experience.
If you have limited space during your move to university, or if you're doing your move through public transport, then you can always buy your essentials when you arrive.
This might be easier as everything you order online will be delivered to your doorstep.
It's also a good opportunity to explore the town and discover what shopping opportunities are available.
When you arrive on campus you'll have plenty of help and support from both the university staff and some of our current students.
They'll help direct you to wherever you need to go, and they'll give you a hand with some of your luggage too.
Once you've arrived in your room, spend a little time making it comfortable.
Unpack and hang your clothes, get your bedding fitted and spend a little time decorating your room.
This will be your new home for quite a bit, so it's best to make it feel homely.
For an in-depth guide for everything you need to know during Welcome, you can use our Welcome Checklist .
When you first move to university, it's best to bring a few important documents that you might need for admin and medical purposes.
These are some of the most important things you can bring:
Checklist item
Why you'll need it
Passport
Passports are important 'photo ID.' They're needed for enrolling onto your course, starting a job and sometimes when engaging with government entities.
Driver’s license
A driver's license is also photo ID but in a much smaller form.
These are handy for when you need to show proof of age on nights out, in stores, at the cinema etc.
You'll also need one of these if you're learning to drive.
University admission acceptance letter
We'll have a copy of all your details on our system but it's handy to have a paper copy for your records.
Course acceptance letter
Again, we will have all this on our system but it's good practice to keep a copy yourself.
Accommodation info & contract
Keep hold of these for your own records.
It's important information to have at hand so you check your tenancy details.
Student loan documents
If you keep a copy of these it will make finding your Student Loans Company account details much easier.
Scholarship or bursary letters
Keep a copy of these so you know what you're entitled to.
You can double check your incoming payments or course fees to make sure you have received your eligible scholarship or bursary.
Insurance documents
Having these at hand in the event of needing to claim insurance will make starting your claim a lot quicker and easier.
Vaccination history
Important so you can check what vaccinations you've had against which ones you might need.
Universities routinely suggest certain vaccinations, so it's handy to know which ones you've already had.
Prescription copies
Very important if you're currently taking medication.
This will help with moving GPs and pharmacies.
Bank debit card
Very handy for making payments online or in-person.
You can also use Apple, Google or Samsung Pay to keep a copy of your cards on your mobile.
Student discount apps or cards
Brilliant for making savings when shopping online or in-store.
You can also use mobile apps such as Unidays or Student Beans to keep a copy on your mobile.
The electricals you bring will vary depending on your hobbies and what you feel you need for your course.
At university you'll be planning and doing a lot of work, so you'll need a good amount of stationery to last you the academic year.
You can also opt to use digital versions of this list.
Digital notes can help you save money and space, and can also be easier to organise.
Depending on your course you might need a lot more specialised stationery equipment.
Your course leader will explain what you'll need during your course introduction.
We recommend keeping your kitchen as minimal as possible.
Try not to have more items than you need, especially duplicates.
Keeping it on the smaller side will keep you in a good habit of washing your dishes so that you can use them for the next meal.
If you have duplicate items, you're more likely to let the dishes pile up.
You also may be sharing kitchen storage space with others.
Your bedroom will be the main part of your new home while you're studying at university.
It's important to make it as comfortable as possible, a place you want to return to after busy days.
What you'll need for your bathroom will vary depending on if you have an en suite room or shared bathroom accommodation.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/advice/how-to-make-friends-at-uni:
We know that most first-year students worry about making friends.
Here are some of our tips for making friends at university.
It's normal to worry about making friends at university.
Just remember that everyone is in the same boat and they probably feel as nervous as you.
That means they'll appreciate you reaching out to make friends.
Here are some of our tips on how to make friends at uni:
We have lots of Facebook groups where you can connect with people on your course or in your accommodation.
You might even be able to find your flatmates.
Don't be afraid to pop them a friendly hello and introduce yourself.
This can help to break the ice and make you feel less nervous.
You could even arrange to meet up on your first day.
Even if you don't become friends straight away, you could message them in the future and build a relationship.
Most people will be nervous - even if they don't show it.
That means they'll appreciate if you start a conversation.
This could be about anything.
Questions are normally a good place to start, because it gives them something to talk about.
You could ask what they're studying, where they're from or what series they're watching at the moment.
Just remember to be friendly and open, and you can't go wrong.
You're bound to have a few awkward silences, but this is all part of making friends.
Once you have moved in, try to leave your door open.
This can make it easier to chat to your flatmates as they're passing by.
Otherwise they might think you don't want to talk.
If you don't want to leave your door open, sit in the kitchen for a while.
You can talk to your flatmates while you cook and eat together.
Games can be a great way to break the ice with your flatmates.
And we're not just talking about 'never have I ever'.
A pack of cards is a must-have for university.
You can try your hand at poker or use it to play drinking games like ring of fire.
You could also bring some classic games like Monopoly, Connect 4 and Guess Who.
These are great for a chilled night in with your flatmates.
Welcome Week is normally busy, but it's still important to go to your course induction.
This will be your first chance to meet people on your course and make friends.
Course mates are really important.
These are the people you'll be studying with for the next 3 years.
They're great to have when you need to ask a question about an assignment, or want a hand with revision.
Try to sit next to people instead of on your own.
This shows you're open to making friends.
Your lecturer will normally plan some ice breakers.
While some people hate them, they can be a great way to start up a conversation.
Remember to add people on social media.
You could also suggest attending the Freshers Fair together.
The Freshers Fair is a staple of Welcome Week.
It takes place all week, with a different theme each day.
One day could be societies, another could be part-time jobs, and another could be food and drink (that means free food).
You can meet groups from inside and outside the university.
The Freshers Fair is also a good way to get to know your flatmates or people on your course.
There's less pressure and you can chat about the stalls you see.
There will be lots of Freshers events going on.
The university and Students' Union organise activities like bingo, karaoke and pub quizzes.
Going to fun, silly things together can really help you form a friendship.
They might even become some of your favourite memories.
There will also be lots of nights out, where you can hit the dancefloor together.
Just make sure you don't drink too much and always stick together.
If you don't drink, don't worry.
You can still make the most of Freshers.
There are lots of alchohol-free activities , like late-night dessert bars and laser tag.
Check out some advice from other students who don't drink:
Joining a society or sports team is a great way to make friends at university, as you already have a shared interest.
We have a wide range of societies , covering everything from archaeology to Bollywood dancing.
These have regular meetings, activities and socials, where you can really build friendships.
There are also lots of different sports teams , including football, netball, hockey and rugby.
You can play competitively or just for fun.
Most sports teams also have socials, where teammates can bond.
There's so much going on in your first few weeks, but try and put in the effort to make plans with people.
This shows that you really want a friendship.
It doesn't have to be anything massive.
You could grab some lunch after a lecture.
This gives you the chance to get to know each other.
You might hit it off and decide to do more together.
If you don't want to talk too much, you could do an activity instead.
You could go shopping, bowling or go to the gym.
It can be scary to put yourself out there, but the worst that can happen is they say no.
Our best tip for making friends at university?
Be yourself.
Don't pretend to like drinking, if you don't like drinking.
Don't pretend to be into politics, if you're not into politics.
Because you'll have to keep pretending for the next 3 years.
The best way to make friends is to be yourself, because then they'll actually like you for you.
You'll share similar interests and hobbies, and be able to build a genuine friendship.
We hope this has helped to make you feel more confident about starting university.
The University of Central Lancashire provide lots of support for first year students.
Check out more of our guides below.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles:
We have so many stories from across the University.
Search them all here and find stories from current students, graduates, alumni, business and research.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/employability:
We prioritise your employability and we want to help you land your dream job.
Our dynamic approach combines industry-informed courses with exciting opportunities beyond the classroom.
Employability is about making sure you have the skills and knowledge to be successful in your career after graduating.
Being employable doesn't just mean learning about a discipline on paper.
It's much more than that.
We know the importance of gaining real-world experience during your studies.
You'll graduate ready to enter the career and industry you choose.
We'll teach you the transferrable skills to complement the knowledge you'll learn in class, such as communication, teamwork and time-management.
Our Careers Service is dedicated to helping you achieve your professional goals.
We offer personalised guidance, extensive resources, and expert support.
It's available from the first day of your enrolment right through the lifetime of your career and beyond.
We equip you with the tools and confidence to succeed.
You'll learn essential skills and get invaluable career advice, meaning you'll graduate ready for the world of work.
We believe the best way to understand an industry is through hands-on experience.
That’s why our courses include real-world learning.
You'll use industry-standard facilities and apply classroom knowledge in practical settings.
We work with leading industry experts to provide valuable hands-on opportunities, and you can study or intern abroad.
These experiences will enhance your skills, expand your network, and boost your employability.
This sets you apart from other graduates and prepares you for a successful career.
There are lots of part-time work opportunities while you study.
All work experience is valuable as you'll learn transferrable skills that help you become more employable.
You could work at the University and be a Student Ambassador, teach a language or become a student content creator.
There are also lots of part-time job opportunities in the local area in hospitality, retail and more.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/international-students/guide:
Simply fill out your details below.
Your information will be used by the University of Central Lancashire marketing team to send you an international student guide and relevant information.
We will always ask you before we use it for any other reason.
Please see the University of Central Lancashire's privacy notices.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/applicants/international-applicants/offer-holders:
Congratulations, you have received an offer for your chosen course.
Let us support you in taking the next important step on your journey.
If there are academic conditions detailed in your conditional offer letter, this means that there are the documents that we still need to receive from you.
The academic conditions could include a personal statement, academic reference, qualification documents or evidence of your English language qualification.
Your offer might include ‘other’ conditions, which will be clearly listed, and might include the submission of an ATAS Certificate, in-country Police Check, Certificate of Good Conduct or similar.
Your documents should be submitted directly to the International Admissions Team at ia@uclan.ac.uk clearly stating your University Registration Number (which appears in your offer letter) in the subject line.
The university is registered as a sponsor under the UK immigration system known as the Points-Based System.
We will provide you with a CAS number, once you have met any academic conditions and paid the relevant tuition fee deposit.
Providing evidence of any agreed sponsorship arrangements will be accepted also.
You will need a CAS to be able to submit your Student visa application.
Once you have paid your tuition fee deposit, we would advise that no extra tuition fee deposit payment should be submitted until your visa has been secured.
Please note that all fees and costs associated with your visa application are expenses you will incur in addition to your tuition and accommodation fees.
If you are coming to the UK to study for a period of more than six months there are further extra expenses.
This will include the Immigration Health Surcharge (IHS) which is currently charged at £470 per year.
When you apply for your visa you will need to ensure you are able to show you have enough money in your bank account.
This is to cover your living expenses (£1136 per month up to a maximum of 9 months) and the balance of your tuition fees.
Visit the student visa application guide for more information.
The University has a safeguarding responsibility toward all students and will treat all students in the same way.
All students will need to have the necessary skills to study and live independently and assume an adult level of responsibility.
Yet, the University acknowledges that anyone living in England who is under the age of 18 is legally defined as a child.
The University will not act in “loco parentis”.
This means that the University will not act in a parental capacity toward students who are under the age of 18.
If your parents/guardians remain overseas when you come to study, we will ask them to provide details of a guardian based in the UK.
This is the person we will contact in an emergency on your behalf should the need ever arise.
The nominated UK guardian should be someone who is in or near to the University and who can act in loco parentis.
The guardian must be a British national or holder of a UK Biometric Residence Permit.
If you will be under the age of 18 when your course is due to begin, we will contact you after you have been issued with an offer to secure the completion of all relevant documentation.
You will be required to get a satisfactory Enhanced Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) clearance if your course involves working with vulnerable groups of individuals.
This information will be included within your offer letter if this requirement applies to your course.
If your DBS check is unsatisfactory, your offer of a place for that course may be withdrawn.
If you are an international student travelling from overseas, you should secure a letter from the local police in your home country.
The UK DBS check process has no way to access information about any crimes committed overseas.
Every country has its own system for criminal records checking.
The terminology for the certificates may differ.
Your country may refer to the process as Certificates of Good Character, rather than mentioning criminal charges which would suffice for this purpose.
You should secure this evidence through the police in your home country and get a certificate either stating your current criminal record or giving an opinion on character and trustworthiness.
More information about the process can be found on the Government's website.
The rules about who pays ‘home’ fees for higher education courses in England are set by the Government’s Department for Education.
The regulations identify all the different ‘categories’ of students who can insist on paying the ‘home’ rate of fee.
If you meet all the criteria required by any one category, including any residence requirements, we will charge you the ‘home’ fee rate.
We will complete an assessment of your fee status, as required, as part of our standard application assessment process.
If you believe your fee status has been categorised incorrectly, please do not hesitate to contact the International Admissions team to enable a detailed assessment to be made.
Please note that the University fee assessment process is carried out independently of your application to study at it.
UKCISA guidelines are considered in full when an assessment is made.
A decision on your fee status is not an admission decision on your application, which will be determined separately from your fee status.
If you have received an offer for a course that has a clinical setting, where work-based learning or a placement form part of your study, you are likely to be asked to provide additional evidence in support of your application in addition to any academic and financial conditions.
The additional evidence may include a DBS Check, detailed above, and/or an Occupational Health Check.
We will provide you with all the information you need at each step of your journey to enable you to provide any additional evidence requested.
Please note that the UK government consultation on whether there was a requirement to be vaccinated against Covid 19 concluded the following; ‘it is no longer proportionate to require vaccination as a condition of deployment through statute in health, care homes or other social care settings.’ The university is following UK government advice and evidence of vaccination status will not be a condition of your offer.
If you have any questions about your application or about any of the specific issues raised above, please do not hesitate to contact our dedicated teams who will be able to provide you with further assistance.
International Admissions Team Email ia@uclan.ac.uk Phone +44 (0)1772 892 444
International Student Immigration and Compliance Team Email SICTSupport@uclan.ac.uk Phone +44 (0)1772 895 000
Accommodation Team Email ATeam1@uclan.ac.uk Phone +44 (0)1772 892 526

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/centres/language-academy:
Our Language Academy offers a range of services.
We provide English language testing, English language support and deliver a range of language programmes and short courses.
" It’s really fantastic that we can learn and practice English with British people in the UK.
Studying at the Language Academy will be one of the most rewarding experiences of your life.
We offer a range of different programmes to suit different needs from our students:
Call us on +44 (0)1772 894248
Email the Language Academy Team

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/bioveterinary-sciences-bsc:
Our Bioveterinary Science Degree will give you a strong understanding of the latest research and knowledge in animal and veterinary sciences today.
You will become competent in core laboratory, field and computer-based technical skills.
Our two-year accelerated programme has full accreditation by the Royal Society of Biology .
You'll learn from leading experts in the field including veterinary clinicians and scientific researchers.
If you want to work in a rewarding scientific career with a focus on animals, then this is the course for you.
Our graduates have gone on to postgraduate study, veterinary degrees, working in human pathology laboratories and more.
On this programme, you will explore traditional concepts of bioveterinary sciences such as animal health, disease and diagnostics, while developing skills and knowledge in more modern aspects of the field.
You will study a One Health approach to bioveterinary science.
This includes studying animal behaviour and welfare science, social issues, global challenges and communication skills.
This course is designed to give you a thorough, yet balanced understanding of the way we live and work with animals and our environment as one.
Our accelerated programme means you gain a full bachelor’s degree in two years.
Typically, comparable degrees take three years.
This will allow you to progress into the workforce faster and save money on tuition fees and living costs.
Our course runs over three semesters instead of two, so you will study between September and July.
Study Bioveterinary Sciences
This module will provide you with a broad understanding of animal structure and function across a range of animal species.
It includes aspects of anatomy, histology and physiology, which are relevant to the other modules of the course.
The teaching is primarily mammal-based, but includes important species differences across animal kingdoms
This module will provide you with the knowledge and understanding of disease, its aetiology, clinical presentation, epidemiology, and pathogenesis.
You'll gain an understanding of the origin and functions of immune cell types, their mode of action and the role of immune mediators.
This module aims to provide a broad, holistic and integrated understanding of animal structure and function across a range of domestic and non-conventional animal species.
It includes aspects of veterinary anatomy, histology and physiology, all of which are presented in a way that makes their relevance clear.
This module will explore the foundational science behind biology, spanning molecular biology to ecosystems.
You'll learn about physiological variations across species and the interplay of environments with wild and domestic animals.
Additionally, you will hain skills in data analysis and presentation using various techniques.
You'll gain knowledge and understanding of the activity of the immune system in infectious and non-infectious diseases.
This module aims to enable you to develop theoretical and practical skills in animal behaviour, housing and husbandry techniques across a range of animal care industries.
This module aims to help you understand the role of research in bioveterinary sciences.
So you can not only distinguish between types of research and identify limitations, but also have the necessary skills to undertake your own research project in the final year of the programme.
This module helps you develop your communication techniques and practical skills needed for colleague, client, and wider public interactions.
You will discuss techniques for animal handling, welfare assessments, sample collection and processing and large-scale applications such as animal rescue.
This module will enable you to critically evaluate complex animal welfare and related ethical and professional issues, and to appraise those issues in an evidence-based and proactive manner.
This module builds on previous modules to support you in designing and completing your own research project.
This module aims to enable you to form an understanding of a complex scientific and social issue and global challenges and how scientific evidence is used to underpin priorities and policies.
Our bioveterinary sciences degree equips you with vital laboratory, field and computer-based technical skills relevant to current industry, preparing you for a broad range of employment.
Students can choose to progress straight into the workforce after graduation or onto further study, including postgraduate degrees such as MSc, MRes or PhD.
Our Bioveterinary sciences graduates have gone on to roles/study including:
Bioveterinary sciences graduates can also find employment in a range of other roles/industries including:
This degree also prepares you well for postgraduate study such as MSc, MRes and PhD.
Studying Bioveterinary sciences does not qualify you as a vet, however if you decide to go on to further study after completing this degree, you may be able to apply to a graduate entry veterinary or medical degree programme.
Studying bioveterinary sciences does not qualify you as a vet.
However, you could apply to study a four-year graduate entry veterinary degree rather than a traditional five-year course if you study bioveterinary sciences as your first honours degree.
You'll usually need to achieve a first class or 2:1 honours degree to apply to graduate entry courses.
You might also wish to consider becoming a veterinary nurse , by completing a diploma or similar qualification.
Our students graduate our two year accelerated Bioveterinary Sciences BSc (Hons) with a thorough understanding of the latest concepts of bioveterinary sciences which presents them with a broad range of exciting career choices when they graduate.
Our graduates have gone on to a range of careers and further study including laboratory-based roles, postgraduate research degrees (MRes) and further study (e.g.
graduate entry veterinary programmes).
There is a wide range of excellent animal science careers available to bioveterinary science graduates.
If you are from a low income household our Financial Bursary may be able to help.
This course sits within the School of Veterinary Medicine , a new vet school.
We focus on innovative learning to produce industry-ready graduates.
You'll learn through practical sessions, tutorials, and lectures.
You'll use a wide range of digital and hands-on resources including digital anatomy and physiology teaching.
You'll also have access to the latest laboratory technologies including cell biology, microbiology, molecular genetics and many more.
The School offers an inclusive and diverse study environment.
You'll be able to grow and develop both professionally and personally, supported by a transdisciplinary team.
Our student-centred approach to learning incorporates a range of quality assurance and assessment techniques.
This includes student feedback and liaison, which ensures your suggestions will be considered and incorporated into your teaching and learning experiences.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/advice/university-grades:
The UK university grading system can be complicated.
Discover the different types of degrees and how university grades work.
This article will help you understand how university grades and classifications work.
You can find out about:
There are four main grades or classifications that you can receive for a bachelor’s degree.
For a foundation degree or a master’s, usually there are three main grades.
Postgraduate research degrees are only classified by pass or fail.
There are many different award types for both undergraduate and postgraduate degrees too.
This usually refers to the type of degree you will be studying.
For example, a Bachelor of Science (BSc) would usually be a science based degree.
A Bachelor of Arts (BA) is usually more focused on arts, humanities arts or social sciences.
Qualifications in England, Wales and Northern Ireland are categorised into qualification levels.
This is according to the Regulated Qualifications Framework (RQF) .
An undergraduate degree is considered anything from Level 4 to Level 6 on the RQF.
Undergraduate degrees are usually taught at universities.
They involve studying one or more subject in detail.
There are different types of undergraduate degrees that you can study.
The amount of time you study will depend on your type of qualification.
A bachelor’s degree is known as a Level 6 qualification (RQF) .
A bachelor’s degree typically takes around three or four years to complete.
Most standard bachelor's degrees are with honours but some more specialist degrees aren't.
Types of bachelor’s degree include:
You can also achieve an ordinary or pass degree without honours.
This is usually an exit award given if you don’t meet the criteria for an honours classification.
Another common type of undergraduate degree is a foundation degree, which is a Level 5 qualification (RQF) .
Other Level 5 qualifications include a Higher National Diploma (HND) or Diploma of Education (DipHE).
They usually take two years to complete full-time.
After you complete your foundation degree you can choose to ‘top-up’ to a full bachelor’s degree.
The main types of foundation degree include:
Courses with a foundation year involve an extra year of study at the beginning of your undergraduate course.
They are usually Level 3 (RQF) and sometimes called a foundation year.
Courses with a foundation year are different to foundation degrees.
What are the grades for courses with a foundation year?
Foundation year is not a standalone qualification, so you will not receive a certificate.
Your work will still be assessed and graded but you will receive a pass or fail at the end of your course.
If you are successful, you will usually be able to progress directly onto your chosen course.
You may also wish to change your course, which is sometimes possible provided you successfully pass.
Some courses do not offer automatic progression after a foundation year, such as medicine or veterinary medicine.
You will need to apply for these courses and pass an interview even after your foundation year.
Please check this information carefully.
Integrated or undergraduate master’s degrees are usually a four-year qualification.
They comprise at least three years of undergraduate level study, with a further year to gain a master's qualification.
The fourth or final year of an integrated master’s degree is equivalent to Level 7 (RQF) .
Like bachelor's degrees, most integrated master's degrees are awarded with honours.
Types of integrated masters include:
A postgraduate degree is an advanced qualification.
They are usually studied after completing an undergraduate degree.
Postgraduate qualifications are usually Level 7 and Level 8 on the Regulated Qualification Framework .
Some graduate level qualifications are Level 6.
You can study for a taught postgraduate qualification, or you may wish to study a postgraduate research course.
Taught postgraduate qualifications include master’s degrees and postgraduate diplomas (PGDip) or certificates (PGCert).
A master’s degree is the most common type of postgraduate degree.
They usually take one year to complete full-time or two to three years part-time.
On successful completion, you will be awarded a master’s level qualification.
Types of taught master’s degree include:
Postgraduate diplomas and certificates are the same level of study as a master’s degree (Level 7, RQF) but are generally shorter.
They consist of fewer modules than a full master’s degree.
You do not usually need to write a dissertation or final project.
Types of postgraduate diplomas and certificates include:
A postgraduate research degree usually involves working on a single in-depth research project.
It’s for those considering a career in academia or research.
Typically they are studied after completing a bachelor’s or master’s degree.
They are not graded in the same way as taught postgraduate degrees.
You either pass or fail, with recommendations for improvement.
Master’s by research are postgraduate degrees that allow you to take your first steps into research.
They help prepare you for doctorate level study.
You’ll undertake an independent research project to develop qualitative and quantitative research skills.
This is under the supervision of a research mentor.
Types of research master’s degrees:
A doctorate is the highest postgraduate level qualification offered by universities in the UK.
It is Level 8 on the Regulated Qualification Framework .
The most common doctoral qualification is a Doctor of Philosophy (PhD).
You can also study a professional doctorate.
These combine academic research with professional practice.
Types of doctoral qualifications
The way university grades are calculated depends on your course and the institution you’re studying at.
You should check your university's academic regulations for full information.
Your course will be made up of several individual modules or units, with each module being worth a certain number of credits.
You will need to take complete a specific number of credits from the modules to successfully complete your course.
Level 4 or above (usually Year 1)
100 credits
Level 5 or above (usually Year 2)
220 credits
Level 6 or above (usually Year 3)
360 credits
Total credits
Each module is assessed separately, and you will be awarded an individual module grade.
Within each module you will take at least one assessment, but usually two or three.
Assessments include:
You will be awarded a percentage mark for each assessment, which will equate to the undergraduate classifications listed above .
The assessment grades will then be used to calculate your final module grade.
Each assessment within a module will carry a weight or percentage of your final module grade.
Sam is in their first year studying BSc (Hons) Psychology full-time at UCLan.
They are currently taking a module called Topics in Psychology, which is worth 40 credits at Level 4.
The module will be assessed by a group poster presentation, coursework, and an exam.
They will receive a grade for each which will be weighted as follows:
Each assessment grade will be given as a percentage.
The grade for each piece of work Sam completes will then be combined.
Based on the weighting of each assessment, they will be given an average overall grade for the module.
This will usually be given as a percentage mark.
This will equate to the standard undergraduate classifications .
Sam received the following marks:
Due to the weighting of each assessment, they final module average is 65.7%, which is an upper-second class honours (2:1).
Just as each assessment carries a weighting towards your final module grade, each module will carry a weighting towards your final degree grade.
This will depend on the number of credits your module is worth.
So if a module is worth 60 credits, the grade from this module will have more weighting towards your final grade classification than a 20-credit module.
You’ll receive an overall grade at the end of each year you study.
For some courses and universities, the grades from your first year of study won’t count towards your final overall grade.
You will need to check your academic regulations for more information.
This does not mean that first year modules and assessments aren’t important though.
It’s a good way to predict your final grade average and help you to improve.
How to work out university grades
Once you have successfully completed all the modules on your course, your final overall grade will be calculated.
You will also likely have a dissertation or final year project that will count towards your final grade.
This usually carries a lot of weighting so is a key element to your final degree classification.
There are several online grade calculators that can help you work out the grades for modules, years and your final grade average.
Each university will have a Board of Examiners, usually one per school or college.
This is the group responsible for deciding the outcome of your assessments and your final grade.
After you graduate, you will receive a transcript that includes the marks for each of your modules.
It will also have your name, award, final overall grade, and course name on the front.
Bachelor of Science with Second Class Honours (First Division) in Psychology

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/study/fees-and-finance/additional-costs:
Below you'll find examples of where you might incur extra costs during your studies.
There may be additional optional opportunities offered on or outside of your course which are not included below.
You can view our full policy on additional costs on the student contracts webpage .
Most costs in addition to your tuition fees are optional.
There are a small number of courses that will have essential additional costs which will be clearly identified.
Where applicable, any course specific costs are outlined further down on this page.
All costs are optional unless highlighted as essential in the table.
Whilst studying, you will need to budget for your living costs separately.
Living costs include accommodation, food, bills and daily travel.
For help with the cost of living, view our support hub .
You will also need to budget for one-off or irregular costs.
These could include bedding, clothes, furniture or insurance.
You'll be able to access essential reading materials in hard or electronic copy, via open access or uploaded to Blackboard by tutors.
You may incur additional costs for optional reading or texts you choose to purchase.
Any reports, course materials and other course documents will be supplied or made available electronically.
Alternatively you'll be able to get a hard copy in the library.
If you need to print any materials it's an estimated 10p per copy sheet.
Books are automatically renewed for up to 26 weeks depending on whether someone else places a reservation request.
Costs include:
Although not essential for most campus-taught courses, you may wish to invest in a personal laptop or computer.
This will allow you to conduct studies more independently.
There are computers available for student use at all our campuses.
Online learning courses will require you to be able to access technology remotely if you're unable to attend campus in person.
You might need to apply for extenuating circumstances relating to assessments.
There may be a cost to obtaining medical or other evidence to support your application.
For example, a medical certificate could cost from £10.
If the course regulations allow it and the course leaders approve, you may need to pay fees for arranging and invigilating off-campus examinations.
Courses with mandatory placements will have travel costs.
You can claim towards these costs but the full cost will not be covered.
The price will vary depending on the distance travelled and your mode of transport.
We offer a wide range of volunteering opportunities which could also involve additional costs depending on what you are doing.
These costs will vary depending on the type of activity.
You may need to pay for international travel for volunteering or other experiences.
This could include travel, accommodation and subsistence.
The amount will vary depending on the country visited.
Some courses offer a payment towards international travel.
Most students have the opportunity to participate in a formal exchange supported by the University for varying lengths of time.
This will involve an additional cost to you should you wish to participate (funding may be available).
The cost will vary depending on a number of factors such as the particular scheme, the destination and the length of the exchange.
There are a small number of courses that will have essential additional costs.
All costs are optional unless highlighted as essential in the sections below.
Food Safety Management, MSc
Please note, these prices related specifically to the optional Professional Skills Module (XS4036).

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/study/fees-and-finance/eu-and-international-students/us-loans:
The University of Central Lancashire participates in the William D.
Ford Direct Loan Programme (Direct Loans) for students who are from the United States and who study on our main campus.
Federal Direct Loans are provided by the US Government to help undergraduate and postgraduate students pay for their education, and are available to US Citizens, Permanent Residents, and other Eligible Non-Citizens.
To apply for US Federal Direct Loans through the Direct Loan Programme, you must be a citizen, or eligible non-citizen of the United States and must be enrolled in a degree-granting programme on main campus at University of Central Lancashire.
University of Central Lancashire is not eligible to certify Direct Loans for medical, clinical, nursing, veterinary, or online learning programmes.
If you are a US student intending to study any of these programmes at University of Central Lancashire, please note that you will not be able to fund your studies with Federal Direct Loans.
If you have not yet applied for a course at University of Central Lancashire, please find out more by visiting International students .
The Federal School Code for University of Central Lancashire is G35153 .
You need to complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) form to be eligible for Federal Student Aid.
A new FAFSA must be completed for each academic year of study if you intend to utilise Federal Student Aid.
Once you have completed your FAFSA, please forward your FAFSA Submission Summary (FSS), along with your full name and University of Central Lancashire Registration Number via email to the US Loans team at the University of Central Lancashire.
Please note that the loans cannot be disbursed until the term has officially started.
You must also be enrolled on your course and be present in the UK.
You must refrain from undertaking study abroad in the US or at any university which does not hold the Title IV stipulation while participating in the Direct Loan programme.
Please email the University of Central Lancashire’s US Loans Team if you have any questions regarding US Financial Aid.
To receive Federal Student Aid, including Direct and PLUS Loans, for studies at University of Central Lancashire you must meet the following eligibility requirements:
You cannot receive US Government loans if you study on any of the following:
The following University of Central Lancashire programmes are ineligible for US government loans:
Online courses
University of Central Lancashire offers a number of online courses, however, Title IV Aid is not eligible for online, or distance learning courses.
Students in receipt of Title IV Aid at University of Central Lancashire are required to study on Preston Main Campus.
Some on campus programmes at University of Central Lancashire offer partial online teaching.
Please email the US Loans Team for further information on eligibility of partial online teaching.
If you do want to study in the non-eligible areas or programmes, you will need to look at your financial plan carefully.
There are private non-governmental loans, for US citizens that could fund these programmes.
As a foreign school University of Central Lancashire is eligible to originate loan applications for Federal Direct Loans and PLUS loans.
Full information on these loans can be found at the Federal Student Aid website .
A Federal Direct Subsidised loan is awarded on the basis of financial need.
The U.S.
government pays interest on a Subsidised loan while you are enrolled at university at least half-time and during deferment periods.
Visit the Federal Student Aid webpage for up-to-date information on Federal Interest Rates.
A Federal Direct Unsubsidised loan is awarded regardless of need.
You are not required to pay the interest on this loan while at university, but we recommend that you do.
You will be charged interest starting at disbursement until it is paid in full.
If the interest accumulates, it will be added to the principal amount of the loan and increase the amount to be repaid.
Most Federal Student Loans are subject to loan fees, which are a percentage of the total loan amount.
Loan fees come out of the amount of money that is disbursed, which means you will receive less than the amount you actually borrowed.
Visit the Federal Student Aid webpage for up-to-date information on loan fees.
Parents of dependent undergraduate students can borrow a Federal Direct Parent PLUS loan to help pay for educational expenses at the university.
Parents can borrow up to the total Estimated Cost of Attendance minus all other sources of financial aid the student receives.
Parent PLUS loans are the financial responsibility of the parents and not the student.
A Parent PLUS loan borrower must meet the same citizenship and residency requirements as the student.
The parent must not owe a refund on a Federal Student Financial Aid Grant or be in default on a Federal Student Loan.
A credit check is conducted when your parent begins the loan application process.
Undergraduates whose parents do not qualify for a PLUS loan can borrow additional Federal Direct Unsubsidised loan funds.
Direct Parent PLUS loans are subject to origination fees.
If your credit decision was denied for the Graduate or Parent PLUS Loan, you may still borrow a Direct PLUS Loan by obtaining an endorser.
An endorser is someone who agrees to repay the Direct PLUS Loan if you do not repay the loan.
An endorser must not have an adverse credit history and may not be the student on whose behalf you are requesting a Direct Plus Loan.
You can complete the Endorser Addendum online.
You will need an Endorser Code , which is the identifying number associated to a Direct PLUS Loan.
The Federal Direct Graduate PLUS loan is a Federal loan that graduate students with good credit histories may borrow to help pay their educational expenses.
A graduate student may borrow up to the total Cost of Attendance less all other financial aid received by the student.
They also must have applied for their annual loan maximum eligibility under the Federal Unsubsidised Direct Loan Programme before applying for a Graduate/Professional PLUS loan.
Direct Graduate PLUS loans are subject to origination fees.
Repayment begins on the date of the last disbursement of the loan and the first payment is due within 60 days after the date the loan is fully disbursed.
A Graduate PLUS borrower may receive a deferment while still enrolled on at least a half-time basis at an eligible school.
Upon dropping to less than half-time enrolment status, the borrower is not entitled to a grace period on PLUS loans.
The amount in Federal Direct loan funds that you are eligible to borrow each academic year is limited by the following factors:
You cannot borrow more than your financial need or the Cost of Attendance.
The following annual and aggregate loan limits apply to Federal Direct Loans:
The graduate aggregate limit includes all federal loans received for undergraduate study.
If the total loan amount you receive over the course of your education reaches the aggregate loan limit, you are not eligible to receive additional loans.
However, if you repay some of your loans to bring your outstanding loan debt below the aggregate loan limit, you could then borrow again, up to the amount of your remaining eligibility under the aggregate loan limit.
Federal Direct Subsidised and Unsubsidised loans are available to eligible students who complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) on the Web .
These federal student aid programs are offered through the William D.
Ford Federal Direct Loan Program to assist with educational expenses.
For undergraduate students, eligibility for Direct Subsidised Loans, Direct Unsubsidised Loans, or a combination of both is determined based on financial need.
The information you report on your FAFSA is used to determine your Student Aid Index (SAI), which is a calculated formula that allows the University to determine your financial need.
To determine your financial need, the University subtracts your SAI from the Cost of Attendance (COA) when awarding need-based aid.
Please note that if your SAI is a negative value, it will be treated as a zero for the purposes of determining your COA.
Additionally, any other financial assistance you receive, referred to as Other Financial Aid (OFA), such as university awarded bursaries and scholarships, Private loans, or fee reductions, will be deducted from your COA.
Each academic year, the University establishes standard student budgets which are used to calculate Cost of Attendance (COA) estimates for awarding financial aid.
The budgets reflect typical student expenses and consist of the following components:
While your actual costs may vary depending on personal circumstances, the maximum COA is generally aligned with these estimates.
If you believe your education-related expenses significantly exceed our estimates, you may email the University of Central Lancashire's US Loans Team to discuss your situation further.
Your tuition fees will be outlined in your offer letter upon acceptance to a course at the University.
For an indication of average monthly living expenses during studies at the University of Central Lancashire, please visit the University’s Student budget calculators webpage .
The first step in applying for a US Federal Direct Loan is to complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA).
The Federal School Code for the University of Central Lancashire is G35153, and you must link your FAFSA application to the university.
To apply electronically, you must have an FSA ID.
Start the application process.
Forward this information to the University's US Loans Team
Once your FAFSA is completed and processed, an Institutional Student Information Record (ISIR) and FAFSA Submission Summary (FSS) will be generated.
Please forward a copy of your FSS to the University by emailing the University of Central Lancashire's US Loans Team .
The information on the FSS and ISIR is essential for the university to determine your eligibility for Federal Student Aid.
After receiving your FAFSA Submission Summary, the University will access your ISIR and calculate your Cost of Attendance.
You will then be notified via email of your Federal Student Aid Financial Assistance Eligibility Offer, which will detail your Financial Aid Package and specify the maximum amount you are eligible to borrow.
You must review your Financial Aid Package and confirm your acceptance of the loan amounts via email.
You can request a reduction of the loan amount, but you cannot request an increase above the maximum limit.
If you intend to borrow a Direct PLUS Loan as part of your Federal Student Aid Package.
Direct PLUS Loans are available to eligible parents of dependent undergraduate students, as well as graduate or professional students.
Additional information can be found on the Federal Student Aid website.
Apply for a Parent PLUS Loan
Apply for a Graduate or Professional PLUS Loan
A credit check is conducted on all direct PLUS Loan applicants.
The relevant Master Promissory Notes (MPN) must be completed.
The MPN is a legal document in which you promise to repay your loans and any associated interest and fees to the US Department of Education.
It outlines the terms and conditions of your loans.
The MPN is a binding legal document that you must sign when you receive a Federal Student Loan.
It lists the terms and conditions under which you agree to repay the loan and explains your rights and responsibilities as a borrower.
It is important to read and retain a copy of your MPN for future reference as you’ll need to refer to it later when you begin repaying your loan or at other times when you need information about provisions of the loan, such as deferments or forbearances.
MPNs must be completed for both the Subsidised & Unsubsidised Loans, as well as any Direct PLUS Loan.
You can complete the relevant MPNs on the Federal Student Aid website
Except for Parent Direct PLUS Loan borrowers, if you have not previously received a loan, you must complete entrance counselling before the University can disburse your loan.
This helps you to understand your responsibilities regarding your loan.
You can complete your Entrance Counselling online .
Once all the necessary steps have been completed, the University will originate your loans in the Federal Student Aid system.
After receiving final approval of your loans from the Federal Student Aid system, the University will send you an email confirming the amounts for Subsidised, Unsubsidised, and PLUS Loans, along with the disbursement dates.
If an applicant for a Direct PLUS Loan has an adverse credit history, they may not qualify for the loan.
In such cases, the applicant may need an endorser, who does not have an adverse credit history, to secure the PLUS Loan.
The endorser cannot be the student for whom the loan is being requested.
An endorser agrees to repay the PLUS Loan if the borrower fails to do so.
To proceed, the endorser must obtain the borrower’s credit denial application ID and create an Endorser FSA ID.
Additionally, the borrower is required to complete the PLUS Master Promissory Note (MPN) and PLUS Credit Counselling.
For more information, including detailed instructions on how to complete the Endorser Addendum, please visit the Federal Student Aid website .
In accordance with US regulation 34 CFR § 668.164, the University is required to disburse Direct Loan funds in multiple instalments that coincide with scheduled term dates.
For a loan period based on enrolment across three terms, three disbursements will be made, one at the start of each term.
Please note that loans cannot be disbursed before the scheduled date.
To be in receipt of each disbursement, students must be:
Loan disbursements are subject to origination fees imposed by the US Government, which are non-negotiable.
In accordance with US regulation 34 CFR § 668.165 the University will:
If there are insufficient funds, or if the current fee values are incorrect, students will be required to cover any remaining balance.
To receive any residual payment, students must have submitted bank details to the University prior to the disbursement.
Before each disbursement, the University will send students an email notification detailing the disbursement amounts and instructions on how to provide bank details for any residual payment.
Failure to provide bank details to the University will result in Federal Student Aid funds being returned to the US Department of Education.
In accordance with regulation 34 CFR 685.304, relevant counselling for Federal Student Aid must be undertaken.
Before your loan application can be completed, you must complete Entrance Counselling, you can find out more about this from the Federal Student Aid Entrance Counselling advice webpage .
Entrance Counselling ensures that you understand the terms and conditions of your loan and your rights and responsibilities.
Before you withdraw, graduate, or drop below half-time attendance (regardless if you plan to transfer to another school), regulations require that you complete an Exit Counselling session for your Direct Subsidised and Unsubsidised Loans, you can find out more from the Federal Student Aid Exit Counselling webpage .
The exit counselling session provides information about how to manage your student loans.
The University of Central Lancashire is required by US Federal Law (34CFR 668.34) to define and enforce standards of Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) for students who wish to access Title IV Federal Student Aid.
These guidelines have been established to encourage students to progress and successfully complete the academic programme for which aid is received.
Although the University has an institutional policy for standard academic achievement, the SAP policy relates specifically to US students in receipt of Title IV funding.
It should be noted that the University's standards for all enrolled students on the same course are the same regardless of the student’s source of funding.
The University's general policies and regulations including Academic Regulations can be found on this webpage: University of Central Lancashire’s general policies and regulations, including Academic Regulations .
Students receiving US Federal Loans must demonstrate satisfactory academic progress, including attendance and engagement as stipulated in the University's Academic Regulations, throughout the loan period in order to receive all of the instalments of their loans for that period and in order to continue receiving loans in subsequent loan periods, where applicable.
This definition of SAP may be different from other University policies and is not a replacement for the University's Academic Regulations.
Furthermore, satisfactory academic progression to retain Title IV Direct Loans is entirely separate from the academic requirements to remain on a programme of study and does not guarantee the outcome of a programme.
Students who receive Title IV Federal Student Aid will be evaluated at the end of each term.
This evaluation process will consider your progress under the following criteria:
To receive Title IV Federal Student Aid, you must meet minimum standards for both the above-mentioned components while simultaneously adhering to academic progress rules and UK Immigration legislation.
Quantitative and Qualitative are both measured cumulatively.
Students in receipt of Direct Loans must always remain in good academic standing and maintain a GPA equivalent of at least 2.0.
Any remedial work will be factored into the Qualitative measurement.
For programmes greater than two academic years, the school must check the qualitative measurement at the end of the second academic year.
The maximum timeframe for completion of a degree programme may not exceed 150% of the published length of a programme as measured in credit hours.
Periods when a student does not receive funds will be included in the maximum timeframe.
Students must complete their course at a pace which ensures that they will graduate within the maximum timeframe.
Pace is calculated by dividing the total number of credits successfully completed by the number attempted.
Please note that while a student may maintain their eligibility for US Direct Loans, institutional academic progress rules and student visa restrictions may impact on your ability to continue within the programme.
Conversely, a student may lose eligibility for US Direct Loans, and still meet institution requirements for continued enrolment.
Typically, all periods of enrolment contribute when assessing progress, even periods when the student did not receive Federal Student Aid, however there are some exceptions and special cases as listed below:
If a student withdraws from their course, or is discharged from the programme, they must reapply if they wish to return to study at the University of Central Lancashire.
If the University accepts a new application to study, any credit gained due to prior study at the University of Central Lancashire would count against the applicable Maximum Time Frame.
Likewise, the student would return at the same level of eligibility status regarding the Qualitative standards.
For example, if they left on a Financial Aid Warning, they would return at the same warning level.
If a student were to change programmes, the work completed in the previous programme would count towards their Maximum Time Frame and their grades would also be considered as continuing towards their Qualitative grade measurement.
All attempted credits and courses count towards the Maximum Time Frame and grades will be calculated as part of Qualitative grade measurement.
Credits transferred in from another university will not count towards the Maximum Time Frame at the University of Central Lancashire.
The grades may be considered for the Qualitative measurement if the prior university’s grade system is equivalent to the UK system.
Prior to a loan disbursement of any Federal Student Aid, SAP will be confirmed by the University's US Loans Team utilising the student administration systems which records student’s academic progress, giving assurance that SAP is being maintained based on an assessment of student progress and achievement, as well as attendance and engagement, in line with qualitative and maximum timeframe measures.
These results will be obtained prior to the disbursement of loan monies at each semester in the academic year to determine whether students are meeting progression requirements that will determine whether the pace of study remains within the specified parameters.
In instances where Satisfactory Academic Progress has not been made, options for continuing their studies will be presented to students in writing.
Where Satisfactory Academic Progress has not been met at the end of a term, the student will be placed on 'Financial Aid Warning’ for the period of the next academic semester and will continue to be eligible to receive funding for that period only.
Maintaining eligibility for the Federal Student Aid requires that students on a Financial Aid Warning complete that period of their academic study at a level that would bring their overall standing in line with Satisfactory Academic Progress requirements.
The US Loans Team will communicate the Financial Aid Warning in writing and inform the student of the need to bring grades, and attendance, in line with the SAP requirements.
If satisfactory progress has not been achieved at the end of the Financial Aid Warning period, a student's loan eligibility will be terminated.
The University does not have the right to waive the Satisfactory Academic Progress requirement for any student.
It is possible for students to receive more than one warning period during an academic year, however, students cannot be placed on a Financial Aid Warning period consecutively.
Students who subsequently lose eligibility for Federal Student Aid because they have failed to maintain SAP may appeal the SAP decision if one or more of the following circumstances exist:
Please note that International students are still subject to UKVI regulations regarding extended absences.
Within 10 days of receiving the Financial Aid Decision, students wishing to appeal must have submitted their appeal in writing to the University’s US Loans Team , detailing the reason(s) for failing to meet the SAP requirements and/or why there should be no suspension of aid.
Appeals can only be made by the student.
Parents and third parties cannot appeal Financial Aid Decisions on behalf of a student.
All supporting documentation should be submitted with the appeal.
This process is separate to any academic appeals process.
Grounds for the appeal may also include:
The appeal will be considered by the Student Fees & Funding Senior Manager.
The University will notify the student in writing of the outcome of the appeal decision.
The appeal will be considered on its merits and a response to the appeal will be provided within 14 working days.
If the appeal is denied a student may regain eligibility if they continue to study and their minimum cumulative pass grade, and attendance, reaches the required levels.
Students will be notified in writing of their change in status within 14 working days after they complete the applicable payment period.
Financial Aid probation
Where a student’s appeal has been upheld, the student retains their eligibility for funding for the subsequent term.
However, during the study term the student is placed on Financial Aid Probation, for a period of no longer than one term, and must meet SAP requirements in order to remain eligible for financial aid.
Please email the University's US Loans Team if further information is required on this policy.
Federal regulation 34 CFR 668.22 dictates that the University is required to complete a Return of Title IV Funds (R2T4) calculation for Federal Student Aid recipients who withdraw from their studies during the course of the academic year.
Loan funds must be returned in accordance with the terms set out in the Master Promissory Note (MPN).
The R2T4 calculation is determined by the last date of attendance according to the student’s record following withdrawal, or a result of academic failure.
This policy applies to all students registered at the University of Central Lancashire and who are in receipt of US Federal Student Aid via the following financial programmes:
A student may either withdraw from their course or be required to withdraw for a range of reasons, including:
A student in receipt of Federal Student Aid who withdraws from their course, whatever the reason, must advise the the University’s US Loans Team within five working days.
In addition, if it is the student’s decision to withdraw, the student must complete the University’s Student Led Withdrawal Policy which can be found on the Student Hub.
For the purposes of Federal Student Aid, the date recorded as the last date of attendance on the student record system will be the date used on the R2T4 calculation.
Students who do not register with the University and who do not attend classes are ineligible for Federal Student Aid.
In such circumstances their Title IV loans will be cancelled.
The US Loans Team is responsible for the R2T4 calculation, and the Finance Department is responsible for transferring the funds.
The US Loans Team will determine, using the R2T4 calculator, the types and amounts of Federal Student Aid which must be returned following withdrawal.
These funds must be returned to the US Department of Education.
The return amount will be calculated using the number of days the student attended in the given term and the total number of days in the given term.
In some instances, the calculation may determine that no funds be returned.
A Leave of Absence is an interruption to a course of study.
Students wishing to take a Leave of Absence must complete the University’s Interruption to Study form .
A student returning to study within 180 days will not normally be subject to a Return of Title IV (R2T4) calculation.
Students taking an Approved Leave of Absence must email the University's US Loans Team , with details of the Leave of Absence, included dates leave begins and ends.
The US Loans Team will inform you of your obligations and consequences of failure to return to study.
Leave of Absence cannot exceed 180 days in any 12-month period.
Students returning from Leave of Absence, must return at the point they left off.
If a student fails to return from a Leave of Absence, for the purposes of Federal Student Aid, the student will be deemed to have withdrawn from their programme from the first day of the Leave of Absence.
During an Approved Leave of Absence, Title IV disbursements will not be made to the student.
A student’s Title IV loans will enter their grace period (you are advised to check your individual loan documents regarding grace periods).
A Return to Title IV (R2T4) calculation for Federal Student Aid recipients is required where students undertake an Approved Leave of Absence - Interruption to Study longer than 180 days.
A student in receipt of Federal Student Aid who interrupts from their course for more than 180 days must email the US Loans Team within five working days of the interruption.
Where a student fails assessments or modules, and is unable to progress, or if it is determined that failure has occurred due to non-attendance, then the last date of attendance or engagement will be used in the R2T4 calculation.
Students who do not attend any classes are ineligible for Federal Student Aid and as a result their Title IV loans will be cancelled.
Following Withdrawal or Leave of Absence – Interruption to Study, the University will review the student’s tuition fees in accordance with the University's Tuition Fee Policy, and will consider if a refund is appropriate.
If a student does not receive their disbursement at the beginning of the payment period and decides to withdraw, the student is eligible for the amount of loan earned in this period.
The University will complete the Title IV calculation and notify the student of any loan overpayment or post withdrawal disbursement.
The loan amount will be calculated and offered as a post withdrawal disbursement within 30 days of the date of determination.
The post withdrawal notification will include:
The University may automatically use all or a portion of the post withdrawal disbursement (if the student accepts it) for tuition fees, and any other charges contracted by the student with the University.
The student may choose to decline the loan funds so that additional Federal loan debt is not incurred.
However, it may be in the student’s best interest to accept the disbursement and allow the University to retain the funds owed in order to reduce their indebtedness to the University.
A response to the notification is required within 21 days, at which point the University will make any post withdrawal disbursement available to the student (or parent in the case of a Parent PLUS loan) within 180 days from the date of determination.
If a response to the notification of post withdrawal disbursement is received after 21 days, the University reserves the right to decline the post withdrawal disbursement.
The decision will be communicated to the borrower in writing.
If no response to the notification is received by the University, the post withdrawal amount will not be disbursed.
Federal Student Aid recipients who receive an overpayment resulting from changes in enrolment, cost of attendance and general eligibility will be required to return the necessary funds to the Department of Education in accordance with the terms of the Master Promissory Note (MPN).
In accordance with federal regulations, refunds are allocated in the following order:
The following calculation has been provided by the US Department of Education to calculate the amount of unearned funds:
Divide the number of days enrolled on the programme by the total number of days in the payment period, this will give you the amount of loan funds earned.
Calculation of Title IV Entitlement
Where a student withdraws or takes leave of absence (interruption to study) after having attended more that 60% of the payment period, they are considered to have earned 100% of the loan funds therefore there is no requirement to return funds.
In cases where students have received more loan funds than earned, the unearned funds must be returned to the US Department of Education by the University or the student.
If the student has earned less than the earned amount of loan funds, the difference could be paid as a post withdrawal disbursement.
The University will collect any unearned Title IV funds required to be returned from the student.
The calculation for Title IV entitlement is as follows:
Divide the number of days enrolled on the course by the total number of days in the payment period, this will give you your entitlement amount.
The University’s responsibilities regarding the return of Title IV funds (R2T4 calculation) include:
Student responsibilities include:
Federal regulation 34 CFR § 668.22 requires the University to return unearned funds directly to the Department within 45 days of the date of determination.
If the return of funds to the Department creates an outstanding balance due on the student account, the student will be responsible for payment of the full balance on their account.
The University is required to inform UK Visas & Immigration of any change of enrolment for international students.
Eligibility for Federal Student Aid may be affected if a student in receipt of Title IV funds is convicted of drug related offences and may result in the return of funds.
Students are directed to the Code of Conduct for Students for information about expectations of students.
The US Government requires institutions who participate in the federal student loans programme to disclose the following consumer information:
The University of Central Lancashire has a range of scholarships and bursaries available to support students while studying with the University.
Visit the scholarships and bursaries webpage for more information.
This webpage provides information regarding:
US Federal regulation 34 CFR § 668.32 states that you must have a secondary school completion credential (high school diploma) or the recognized equivalent of a secondary school completion credential to be eligible to receive Federal Student Aid.
The US Department of Education provides information for students regarding Federal Student Aid at studentaid.gov
Visit the University of Central Lancashire webpage for a list of degree programmes offered at the University.
Courses for each degree are listed accordingly and link directly to the course catalogue where detailed descriptions of each course can be found.
Student policies can be found by visiting the Student Policies and Regulations webpage.
The following programme types are not eligible for Title IV funding at the University of Central Lancashire:
The University of Central Lancashire offers a number of online courses, however, Title IV Aid is not eligible for online, or online learning courses.
Students in receipt of Title IV Aid at the University are required to study, in person, on Preston Main Campus.
Some on campus programmes at the University of Central Lancashire offer partial online teaching.
Please email the University's US Loans Team for further information on eligibility of partial online teaching.
Information regarding Tuition Fees can be found on the University’s Fees and funding webpage .
The University of Central Lancashire offers a number of support services for students.
Please visit the university’s Student Hub pages for Inclusive Support and Wellbeing Services .
The University of Central Lancashire’s Tuition Fee Policy and Refund Policy will be adhered to in all instances.
The Return of Title IV funds (R2T4) policy overrules the University of Central Lancashire’s refund policy.
If you are in receipt of Federal Student Aid, you are not allowed to study abroad in the US.
You are also not allowed to study abroad at a school that is not approved for Title IV Aid.
For further information regarding study abroad eligibility for Federal Student Aid, email the University's US Loans Team .
If you withdraw from your course at the University of Central Lancashire, this will affect your eligibility for Federal Student Aid.
In the event of withdrawal from the course, you will need to complete Exit Counselling for your student loan.
The University of Central Lancashire believes that students and staff should have reasonable expectations of one another, while behaving professionally and respectfully.
The Student Charter has been developed in conjunction with the Students’ Union and outlines our culture and principles.
To view more of the University of Central Lancashire's policies, visit the Student Policies and Regulations webpage .
The University of Central Lancashire complies with the General Data Protection Regulation (UK GDPR) and the Data Protection Act 2018 whenever it processes personal data.
For further information regarding the University’s Data Protection Policy and Information Management Policy, visit the University’s Data Protection webpage .
The University of Central Lancashire will confirm the enrolment status and academic achievement of students to the US Department of Education as required by Federal Student Aid regulations, and in line with the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) .
By Accepting Federal Student Aid, students are acknowledging and consenting to this sharing of data.
More information relating to sharing of information can be found on the Master Promissory Note (MPN) when taking out Federal Student Aid.
The University of Central Lancashire will hold itself to the highest levels of integrity and will not knowingly provide any false, erroneous, or misleading statements to a student or prospective student, to the family of an enrolled or prospective student, or to the US Department of Education.
The University of Central Lancashire is committed to operating in an environment of integrity.
Each member of the University's community is responsible for assuring that the actions and activities conducted at the University promote such an environment.
The University of Central Lancashire does not have a Preferred Lender Agreement with any specific lender of private education loans.
In most cases, the University will work with whichever private lender a prospective borrower decides to use, provided such lenders chose to offer loans to students studying outside the US.
At the date of publication, the University of Central Lancashire is registered with both Sallie Mae and Earnest to approve private education loans, however, the University does not promote, endorse, or recommend these providers over any other private lenders.
The University of Central Lancashire has no affiliation with any private lender, and any reference to private lenders does not represent the existence of an approved lender.
Please be aware that private education loans are still limited to Cost of Attendance similar to Direct Loans.
A student may hold both a private education loan and Direct Loans, however, the total cannot exceed the Cost of Attendance.
Students should be aware that they may qualify for Title IV loans, and that the lending terms and conditions of Title IV loans may be more favourable than those of private education loans.
Students are advised that the University does not offer any advice on which loan to take out, and that they should conduct their own research into what loans would best meet their needs.
A private alternative loan is a non-Federal education loan, provided by a private lender, typically in the student’s name and requiring a co-signer.
Approval and interest rates are based on a credit assessment of the borrower and co-signer.
Each alternative lender has different eligibility requirements, loan rates, terms, and conditions.
Students who are eligible for Federal Student Aid should complete the FAFSA and exhaust all Federal loans and scholarship opportunities, before applying for a private alternative loan.
Federal student loans generally have more favourable terms and conditions than private loans.
The University of Central Lancashire recommends that you utilise all Federal loan eligibility before turning to private loans.
The University of Central Lancashire does not have a Preferred Lender Agreement with any specific lender of private education loans and is willing to work with any lender who offers alternative educational loans to US students enrolled at Foreign Institutions.
The University of Central Lancashire is registered with Sallie Mae and Earnest , however, does not promote, endorse, or recommend these providers over any other private lenders.
Students are advised to explore all options available to them and can opt to use any lender.
The Federal Truth in Lending Act requires a lender to obtain a self-certification signed by the applicant before disbursing a private education loan.
The university is required upon request to provide the form or the required information only for students admitted or enrolled at the university.
Independent advice relating to US Private Loans can be sought by visiting Global Education Management Services .
The University of Central Lancashire is approved by the US Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to administer Education Benefits to eligible students through the GI Bill.
Please note, however, that the University is unable to process Yellow Ribbon Benefits.
The VA maintains a list of approved institution of higher learning programs on its website, indicating which courses are currently approved for funding.
You can check whether your course is approved by visiting the Veterans Affairs website.
If your course is not currently listed, please email the University’s US Loans Team with details of your course so that we can submit a request to the VA for approval.
Please be aware that the approval process can be lengthy.
As such, if you enrol at the University of Central Lancashire before your VA Education Benefits are approved, you will be responsible for payment of fees through alternative means.
The VA will only approve degree programs that are similar to degrees granted by accredited US colleges and universities.
The VA will not approve independent study programs, including distance learning, for courses studied at University of Central Lancashire.
You may be able to utilise VA Education Benefits if:
Further information regarding VA Education Benefits at Foreign Schools can be found on the VA website for Foreign Programs.
If you are not currently receiving GI Bill benefits, you will need to apply for them through the How to Apply section of the VA website.
Be sure to choose the correct GI Bill program based on your eligibility.
The University of Central Lancashire Faculty Code is 11103174 .
Once your application for GI Bill benefits is approved, please email the University's US Loans Team and provide them with the following documentation:
This will allow the University to certify your enrolment to the VA.
For further information or assistance, please email the University's US Loans Team .
Find out more information on entry requirements, scholarships, bursaries, and how to contact us.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/news/uclan-twins-with-ukrainian-university:
University pledges to provide support to Uzhhorod National University
The University of Central Lancashire (UCLan) has pledged its support to help the people of Ukraine by twinning with a Ukrainian university.
UCLan has agreed to be one of the UK universities who will provide support to Uzhhorod National University (UzhNU) helping them to maintain operations during the war and to re-establish the University post-war.
The five-year pledge with the institution, which has approximately 15,000 students and is based in the west of the country on the Slovakian border, will initially focus on four specific areas.
UCLan will offer online English classes to support UzhNU’s students’ access to international content as well as run face-to-face English language short courses in Preston.
The University is also providing support through a national scheme to help turn UzhNU’s student accommodation into more appropriate housing for people displaced by the invasion.
UCLan has offered to support with resources and funding to set up a nursery to help the displaced women with children.
In addition, UCLan will provide access to online library and IT resources via specialist educational platforms.
The partnership will also consider potential collaborative research opportunities, initially focussing on English studies and Literature, social sciences, bioscience and medicine.
The twinning with the state university was confirmed at an online Memorandum of Understanding signing ceremony attended by UCLan’s Vice-Chancellor Professor Graham Baldwin and Deputy Chief Executive Officer Ruth Connor.
Professor Baldwin said: “We’ve all been horrified at the news reports and images we’ve seen from the war in Ukraine.
Collectively, and individually, we wanted to step up and help as best we can.
“Through one of our collaborative transnational education consultancy partners, we immediately offered our support to Ukrainian universities after the invasion.
“Thanks to a lot of hard work by so many people within the education sectors both here and in Ukraine, we’re delighted we can offer a range of support to Uzhhorod National University.
The help we provide will not only support the student and staff community through this devasting conflict but will continue when the war is over.”

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/news/computer-equipment-to-support-ukraine:
The IT equipment will help Uzhhorod National University (UzhNU) to kit out work areas for students and staff.
The University of Central Lancashire (UCLan) is sending a range of computer equipment to our Ukrainian partner university, as part of a wider pledge to help them maintain operations during the war and to re-establish the University post-war.
A pallet containing 30 computers, monitors, keyboards and mice is heading to Uzhhorod National University (UzhNU) as part of UCLan’s wider five-year pledge with the institution, which has approximately 15,000 students and is based in the west of the country on the Slovakian border.
There are two potential uses for the IT equipment once they reach UzhNU: the first is to kit out a study area in the University’s Halls of Residence for young learners who have been displaced from their homes, with the computers helping them to continue their studies remotely.
The university is also planning to establish a Project Office, where the computers could help to create a single working space for experts from different areas of the University, and from those who have been displaced by the war who are staying in Uzhhorod, including scientists, researchers, and administrative staff.
The idea is that this location will unite all those who wish to develop internationally focused projects and submit them for grants: bringing together all those who are striving for international cooperation and conducting research with foreign partners.
UzhNU has said they intend to name the new space ‘the British-Ukrainian Friendship Chamber’, as a testament to the success of the twinning scheme.
The twinning initiative, which is supported by Universities UK and was started by Cormack Consultancy Group, has seen various UK universities – of which UCLan is one – partner with Ukrainian institutions to provide urgent, targeted support now, and beyond the war.
#TwinforHope has generated a huge amount of support since its launch, with more than 100 long-term partnerships now in place.
Paul Rowe, Director of International Partnerships at UCLan, said:
“Colleagues at our twinning partner, Uzhhorod National University (UzhNU), have been working tirelessly to provide accommodation and support to fellow Ukrainians displaced by the invasion.
UCLan is proud to be collaborating with UzhNU, and we hope that by providing this equipment - and through our other ongoing initiatives with UzhNU - we can continue to support this vital work.”
The computer delivery is just one tangible example of the partnership in action: other initiatives run by UCLan to support those in Ukraine include the delivery of a two-week English Language summer school in August 2022, for a group of UzhNU staff and students at UCLan Cyprus, along with online English Language programmes (running through to this summer), which will ultimately help to support more than 150 students in their English Language learning.
Elsewhere, we are exploring the chance to support a UzhNU academic currently in the U.K to base themselves in Preston, as well as hosting a visit by the Vice-Rector Prof.
Myroslava Lendel and four members of UzhNU’s International Relations team in May.
And there’s further work underway on the research side too: UCLan’s School of Medicine is currently looking at options for potential research collaboration, and our Library team has been working with their counterparts at UzhNU about support to access academic Journals.
We’re also continuing to look at ways to support the digitisation of UzhNU’s 15th Century scientific documents.
Oksana Svyezhentseva, Head of Department for International Relations at UzhNU, said:
“We would like to express gratitude to our British partner - the University of Central Lancashire - for friendly and fruitful support during this difficult time.
We have been able to implement several joint projects, including English language courses and a summer school.
Now, with the provision of this computer equipment, we will have the opportunity to provide educational processes in mixed mode – both on and offline.
We are very proud to be a part of #TwinForHope.”
The computer equipment has been organised and packed by UCLan’s Learning Information Systems (LIS) IT Hardware Support team – once on its way, the pallet should arrive in Ukraine within a few weeks.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/international-students/oncampus:
OnCampus UK North is based at our Preston Campus.
They offer a range of undergraduate foundation programmes for international students.
OnCampus offer foundation year programmes for international students.
If you don't meet the entry requirements for one of our courses, you could complete a foundation year programme with OnCampus.
This will help you build the skills you need to progress onto a degree at the university.
You'll be based at our Preston campus.
You'll learn essential English language skills and develop your subject knowledge.
This will help you prepare to study a degree at the university.
There are multiple pathways to choose from, including:
After you have successfully completed your foundation programme, you can progress onto your chosen degree as long as you meet the requirements.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/international-students/foundation-providers:
International foundation programmes are designed to help you, as an international student, close the gap between your current qualifications and the requirements of a UK degree.
If you don't meet the academic or English language requirements for entry to an undergraduate degree, you may need to take an international foundation programme.
International foundation programmes help you with:
We recognise that every student’s path is different.
We also recognise a number of different foundation pathways.
Our partner OnCampus deliver international foundation programmes on our Preston campus.
Studying with ONCampus gives you excellent academic support and full access to university facilities, all while becoming part of our student community from day one.
We also recognise a number of high-quality international foundation providers based in the UK and overseas.
We work closely with these providers to ensure their programmes align with our entry standards.
Successfully completing one of the recognised international foundation programmes allows you to progress directly into Year 1 of an undergraduate degree.
Below, you’ll find a list of international foundation providers we currently recognise.
If you’re unsure whether your foundation course is accepted, please contact us and we’ll be happy to advise.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/facilities/sports-arena:
Our sports arena is Preston’s premier multi-sports venue.
We cater for a wide range of outdoor sports such as football, rugby, athletics, hockey, tennis, netball, cycling and rounders.
The arena features a variety of outdoor sports facilities, including two 3G pitches, a hockey pitch and recently resurfaced athletics track.
In addition to our sports facilities, the arena also has meeting rooms and a café.
We have an eight lane Polymeric Athletics Track that conforms to UKA Track-Mark Licence Level 1 standards.
The track is available for use by clubs, schools and individual athletes.
To use the track you must purchase an Athletics Permit.
Day permits are available from the Arena Reception.
Athletics clubs
Our Sports Arena is home to Preston Harriers.
The club use the Sports Arena track as their home venue for events, fixtures and training.
Find out further information, see the Preston Harriers website .
We have a 1.5km cycle track and a 0.75km junior cycle track, open for use by individuals, clubs and cycle races/meetings.
Helmets are compulsory.
All users must purchase a daily permit and provide their own helmet.
The track is open for use from 9am to dusk.
The track is sometimes booked for local and regional events and at such times is closed to general users.
Coaching
Cycle sessions are:
Cycle hire
Hire charges
We can accommodate all football formats from small sided junior activities right through to senior male and female leagues.
We work with numerous leagues and teams and have a healthy relationship with our local professional club, Preston North End.
All facilities can be booked on either a casual or block booking basis, depending on availability.
Facilities available
We also host weekly junior coaching and holiday soccer schools together with our partner, the Sir Tom Finney Soccer Centre.
The Sports Arena one, full size, sand dressed, floodlit hockey pitch and as well as being the home of UCLan & Fulwood Ladies Hockey Club, the Arena hosts various leagues, tournaments and umpiring courses throughout the year.
Situated just 10 minutes off the M6 motorway, it is ideally located for local and regional tournaments.
We have four floodlit netball courts available for use by the public, schools and community groups.
Balls and bibs are available for hire from central reception at a minimal charge.
We have a number of rounders pitches available either on grass or our all-weather floodlit pitches.
We also welcome local and regional rounders tournaments.
We have four floodlit all-weather tennis courts available to hire by individuals or clubs.
Springfields Tennis Club
Springfields Tennis Club is based at the Sports Arena from April to September.
Club training sessions are on Monday evenings and potential members are welcome from 6pm.
Matches take place on Wednesday and Thursday evenings.
For more information please email: springfieldtennis@hotmail.com
We are experienced in organising and delivering successful corporate events.
These include football, netball, rounders and athletics (fun sports day activities) or you can choose to enjoy a variety of sports.
Prizes are available for teams and individuals.
Hot breakfast and buffet lunches are available with refreshments throughout the day, while Cottam Barn and patio area offers an excellent base for the day.
We have successfully catered for corporate days from Hays Accountancy, McDonalds Restaurants, HASSRA and the University of Central Lancashire.
Meeting facilities
We can also cater for your needs if you are looking to host a staff meeting, training day or away day.
We can provide comfortable seating for up to 30 people, arranged to suit your event.
Breakfast, lunch, finger buffet and drinks can also be provided.
A shuttle bus runs Monday to Saturday during term time from the Students' Union.
One bus route serve UCLan Sports Arena indirectly:
University of Central Lancashire Sports Arena Tom Benson Way Preston Lancashire PR2 1SG
Telephone: +44 (0)1772 761000
View our sports arena AccessAble guide .
9.00am – 10.00pm
Friday
9.00am - 7.30pm
Saturday and Sunday
9.00am - 5.00pm
Staff : £15 per month, for minimum three months.
Payment taken directly from salary or via upfront payment.
Alumni : £45 per three months, for minimum three months.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/business/propeller-hub:
The Propeller Hub is the dedicated workspace and holistic service offered by our Centre for SME and Enterprise Development, based within the Media Factory of the University of Central Lancashire.
The SME community is the backbone of the UK economy and our team is proud to support it.
The Propeller Hub is more than just office space, it is your doorway to the rest of UCLan and the great resources we have to offer you.
In the last five years we’ve supported over 2,000 people through our range of workshops, mentoring, space rental, networking, competitions and a whole host of activity.
Within the last three years alone we have supported 200 businesses, 152 of which we helped to start.
Many of these business owners have made use of the Propeller Hub and still reach out for support, or to give back to our currently aspiring entrepreneurs.
Hot desk
Dedicated rental desk
UCLan trading address (not a registered address)
Yes
Desk space with power and USB ports
Dedicated desk space
24-hour access
Access to kitchen facilities
Use of the pods and meeting booths
Use of the meeting room
Use of the boardroom
Lockers
Parking permit (additional charges apply)
Printing (additional charges apply)
The Hub is a space for new businesses, to provide support throughout the first three years of trading.
As such, our pricing system is designed to step-up in affordable increments that align with the growth of your business.
We also offer a lower starting point for alumni of UCLan, as part of the ongoing support package offered by the UCLan Alumni Network .
Hot desk passes are £40 a month for graduates, or £45 for local businesses (exclusive of VAT).
We have 16 hot desks within the Propeller Hub, which are ideal for those starting out.
We can have up to 28 people registered to hot desk at any time before a waiting list is initiated.
With a monthly hot desk pass, members can use the Hub up to eight times a month.
There are also 24 dedicated rental desks within the Hub, which provide a permanent place to work.
These are priced in line with the growth plan, scaling up as your business does.
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Graduates/ Alumni
£90
£100
£115
Local Businesses
£125
Prices are exclusive of VAT and subject to rise in line with inflation.
To discuss your needs and see if the Propeller Hub is right for you, please contact the Centre for SME and Enterprise Development or phone +44 (0)1772 894321.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/business/support-for-smes/centre-for-sme-development:
The Centre for SME and Enterprise Development responds to the needs of the SME community to stimulate enterprise, innovation and business growth.
Designed and delivered by entrepreneurs and industry experts, this leadership course is 90% government funded and will provide you with time away to take your business to the next level.
SMEs make up 99% of UK businesses.
Our award-winning Centre for SME and Enterprise Development provides a free membership where you can connect and learn together with over 1,800 SME members.
The Centre provides a gateway to our internationally recognised research centres, the expertise of staff, students and graduates, and the outstanding facilities we have to offer.
Designed and delivered by entrepreneurs and industry experts, this leadership course is 90% government funded and will provide you with time away to invest in your leadership, taking your business to the next level.
Centre for SME and Enterprise Development
Email: sme@uclan.ac.uk
Tel: +44 (0)1772 894321
Twitter: @UCLanBusiness

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/business/apprenticeships/apprenticeship-levy:
The Apprenticeship Levy offers a great opportunity to recruit, train and retain the best employees and graduates for your business.
We can support you through your levy application and process.
The Apprenticeship Levy is a levy on larger employers to fund apprenticeships and applies to both public and private sectors.
If your business wage bill is over £3 million, your company will pay the Apprenticeship Levy of 0.5% of your annual wage bill.
The levy is administered by the Digital Apprenticeship Service, and collected from the PAYE system.
Employers who pay the levy can use these funds to cover apprenticeship training costs.
The cost of the training depends on the apprenticeship level and industry sector.
Further details can be found on the Government website .
If your business wage bill falls below £3 million then you do not pay the levy.
You can benefit from the co-funding scheme and receive 95% government funding to support apprenticeship training.
An employer that does not pay the levy will contribute 5% of the programme and assessment costs.
Non-levy paying employers need to apply for Reserved Funding to access the co-investment model to benefit from this funding.
Both levy and non-levy paying employers can benefit from additional payments to support their apprentices.
Employers can receive an additional payment of £1,000 in respect of apprentices aged 18 on the start date of the programme, or an apprentice aged up to 24 who has previously been in care or has a Local Authority Education, Health and Care Plan.
For further information, please see the Government’s website
In any 12-month period, non-levy paying businesses can apply to reserve funding for up to ten employees.
For employers wishing to train more than three employees it may be possible to benefit from levy-transfer funding, which is funding accrued by a larger employer who has not fully utilised their levy.
We have an allocation of funding to support non-levy businesses.
Contact us for further details.
A consortium of Lancashire organisations, including the University of Central Lancashire, are working together to help local businesses develop their workforce and retain funding within the county as it recovers from the effects of the Covid19 pandemic.
The Lancashire Levy Transfer Network (LLTN) was established is an impartial and free service that brings together and supports businesses to give and receive Apprenticeship Levy funds.
The Network will enable businesses to get the support they need to access apprenticeship training for their staff and will simplify the process of matching up businesses for mutual benefit; levy-payers do not lose their underspent funds to a central government pot and instead, the maximum amount of levy investment is retained in the Lancashire region.
For more information on how your business can benefit please visit the Lancashire Levy Transfer Network website .
We will support you through the above registration and application process.
Please email or call and we will discuss the options with you.
Email the Apprenticeship Team
Tel: +44 (0)1772 895500

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/business/why-us-marketing:
Forward-thinking, Digital Marketing Agency, whY-us?
see their employees grow with a Degree Apprenticeship, as Kelsey Pilkington blossoms in her Marketing Executive role.
WhY-us?
Marketing based in Oswaldtwistle supports businesses of all sizes across a wide range of sectors.
Over the last 10 years, they have been approved and trusted providers for a variety of funded business support, coaching, mentoring, peer-to-peer and action learning set programmes through The European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), The Northwest Regional Development Agency (NWDA), Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (BEIS) funding and local education institutions.
Managing Director Richard Singleton can see the value Degree Apprenticeships can bring to the fast-paced climate of business and marketing.
Richard has seen employee Kelsey Pilkington blossom in her role of Marketing Executive through the knowledge gained on the Digital Marketing Degree Apprenticeship with the University of Central Lancashire.
Richard first heard about Degree Apprenticeships through networking and meeting University representatives, the motivation being to aid business growth by adding more resources to his team.
It was also motivated by a personal, feel-good factor to enable a student to get real-life experience and support their personal and academic development.
Likewise, the Degree Apprenticeship has allowed the business to widen its product portfolio and bring in multiple new clients.
" Kelsey has made a huge difference to the dynamic and attitude.
It is fantastic to have another person, with a completely different way of thinking, to challenge the ‘traditional’ way of doing things.
As a modern, forward-thinking agency, whY-us?
Marketing is always looking at ways to stay on-trend and having a diverse workforce aids that.
Richard said: “By recruiting a Degree Apprentice, we have a mix of age, gender, culture, education and more.” Richard can also see how valuable Kelsey is to the business.
“Kelsey has made a huge difference to the dynamic and attitude.
It is fantastic to have another person, with a completely different way of thinking, to challenge the ‘traditional’ way of doing things and add another perspective that sometimes hasn’t even been considered.
As a business owner, I have been able to delegate tasks, without worry, into the capable hands of my apprentice.”
Kelsey also recommends Degree Apprenticeships to anyone considering: “It’s been a great experience, and I would never hesitate to recommend a Degree Apprenticeship to anyone.
I feel so grateful to have had the opportunity so thank you to my employer, the University, and my classmates for making it so enjoyable.”
Recently, Kelsey completed a MSc International Business and Management course with the University of Central Lancashire Burnley Campus to develop her skillset further.
For any other employer thinking about taking on a Degree Apprentice, Richard added: “I can highly recommend the DMDA programme to other employers and thank the University for their exceptional teaching, support, and structure.”
Richard also welcomed the new Apprenticeship Matching Service : “The new apprenticeship meet and match system for apprentices and employers is a valuable resource that helps businesses find the perfect fit.
I wish the University and the new initiative continued success."
" It’s been a great experience, and I would never hesitate to recommend a Degree Apprenticeship to anyone.
I feel so grateful to have had the opportunity so thank you to my employer, the University, and my classmates for making it so enjoyable.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/business/degree-apprenticeships-baxi:
Baxi, founded in 1866, produce a wide range of heating and hot water solutions for residential and commercial customers, using different technologies, including heat pumps, heat networks, gas and electric boilers.
They have seen first-hand the benefits of Degree Apprenticeships.
With 1,200 employees across the country, Baxi are actively tackling industry skills shortages with 47 apprentices spread across different courses and institutions.
At present, five of these are enrolled on the University of Central Lancashire (UCLan) Manufacturing Engineering Degree Apprenticeship.
Transformation Director Jackie Taylor, based at the Bamber Bridge site, said: “Part of my roles is to focus on future skills development and to work towards ensuring operational excellence in manufacturing across the site.
I also head up the Manufacturing Engineering Division, so I have a few apprentices currently within my area.
I mentor several of the apprentices directly, giving them a global business overview, and providing any support they need.
I make sure that both their studies and their work on site is aligned, and that one is supporting the other.”
Jackie can see first-hand the value Degree Apprenticeships can bring to the business.
“Because we’re on a journey to achieve manufacturing excellence, it's great to have people who have exposure to new technologies and new processes.
They’re looking at things like simulation, Smart Tooling and automation, augmented reality, virtual reality, and additive manufacturing, because it's what they're learning at university.”
The company has also seen improvements in diversity.
Jackie said: “We've got people from different ethnic and national backgrounds who have come in.
We’ve got quite a high Polish population, and sometimes they've touched on engineering topics in their studies in Poland, so it’s a great continuation for them to apply for one of our apprenticeship programmes and study a degree in the UK.
We’ve also had people from India, Pakistan, and other countries where English might not be their first language, and where required we've been able to support them with additional tuition around that.
Bringing in young apprentices to work alongside people who have been with the organisation for a significant number of years - we've had people with up to 40 years’ service working here - is a great way to improve diversity, and embed a culture of knowledge transfer.”
" Bringing in young apprentices to work alongside people who have been with the organisation for a significant number of years is a great way to improve diversity.
Regarding the upskilling of existing employees, anyone who expresses an interest and meets the enrolment criteria for a Degree Apprenticeship is invited to interview alongside their external candidates.
Jackie adds: “There's a real skill shortage of engineers in the marketplace, so employees who already have the knowledge and understanding of how the business operates usually make really good candidates for the apprenticeship scheme.”
Manufacturing Engineering Degree Apprentice Jack Dugdale sums up his experience: “For me personally, I’ve seen the best of both worlds.
I’ve seen what is taught to us in theory and then how it is being applied in industry.
I would choose to do it again if given the opportunity.” Jack also provides some useful advice for anyone considering Degree Apprenticeships.
Jack said: “They are worth looking into.
I'd recommend it to anybody.
I think it is the best option to gain a degree and industry experience, and you have the bonus of not encountering debt either.”
Fellow Degree Apprentice Alex Mather welcomed the new facilities on offer at UCLan.
Alex said: “The Engineering Innovation Centre (EIC) is very well stocked, and they have a high level of capability in the workshops, a machine that 3D prints metal, machining facilities which include welders, guillotines and all the sheet metal working equipment you could possibly need.
They also have laser cutters and water jet cutters, massive 3D printers and very intricate, very fine detail 3D printers.
If the module requires you to make something, they'll have the facility to do that, and the technicians are super helpful.
If you give them a correct drawing, they can make whatever you want.”
Jackie also sums up the value of Degree Apprenticeships: “Apprentices can put into practice what they're learning, as they're learning it.
By the time they come out of the apprenticeship, they are incredible.
They are people you can rely on, and they are not the most junior people in the team when it comes to their skills and their ability to get things done.
For any employers considering Degree Apprenticeships, Jackie provides some thoughtful advice: “It's a valuable experience for businesses to bring in apprentices at degree level, but you must give it some thought up front.
If you can organise projects and other activities to support their learning, both the learners and the business get a lot more from it.”
" Apprentices can put into practice what they're learning, as they're learning it.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/business/degree-apprentices-make-an-instant-impact-at-iot-horizon:
Sales and Marketing Director, Niamh Allen, talks about the benefits of studying a degree apprenticeship at UCLan Burnley, highlighting the positive impact that it is having on her digital solutions business.
Niamh, from Rossendale, enrolled onto the BA (Hons) Business Management Degree Apprenticeship in January 2019 and has been able to make positive changes at her company, IoT Horizon .
IoT Horizon was founded in 2017 with the mission to take the complexity out of the Internet of Things industry.
The business supports customers on their digital journey by providing consultancy services and solutions that improve existing processes and productivity.
Niamh explained: “We work in a number of sectors and across a number of solutions, but we always start with the business case.
We review the business needs and challenges, the culture for change, and the return on investment.
This is where our process starts.”
Talking about the impact of the course on her business, Niamh highlighted the ability to instantly make improvements based on what she had learnt on the course, “I’ve studied modules in HR, finance, marketing, operations and digital tech and they have all been really beneficial because I have been able to put the theory straight into the business.”
“The company was a start-up business when I joined the course, and we needed to strengthen processes in certain areas.
My director has been supportive of my degree apprenticeship and has allowed me to make changes within the company based on my learning.
I’ve made changes to HR policies, operational strategy and introduced new ways of working.”
" My director has been supportive of my degree apprenticeship and has allowed me to make changes within the company based on my learning.
I’ve made changes to HR policies, operational strategy and introduced new ways of working.
Co-founder of the company and Managing Director, Deyrick added: “Niamh has worked very hard on her degree and has had a fantastic opportunity to test the theories in a living lab.
We have seen huge benefits and for me, this is the future of degrees.”
The lecturers were highlighted as one of the major positives of the course.
Niamh explained: “The lecturers are brilliant!
I mainly have Simon and Francesca and they are both great – really knowledgeable and supportive!
“Right from the start, where I was able to catch up in an intense ‘summer school’ because I started the course late and didn’t want to wait until the next start date.
The ‘summer school’ allowed me to catch up with the modules that I missed.”
“The course content is always relevant to me and my business which has really helped me understand things better and make changes in the workplace.
I think when I’ve studied in the past it has been harder to understand the theory, as you don’t have practical experiences of things like HR and accounts.
I’ve been able to produce a sales plan and a marketing plan as part of my assignments, so it is helping both me and the business.
“The tutors are also really understanding of the pressure of studying alongside full-time work and being flexible with assignment deadlines.
They’ve kept me going when I thought I’d taken on too much and felt like quitting.”
One other major benefit of the degree apprenticeship is studying alongside people that are also in industry.
“It’s been really useful hearing about how other people in similar roles from different industries tackle similar problems to what I have at my company.”
Niamh had intended to go to university after finishing college and had been accepted onto a psychology course at UCLan.
However, she decided to go into work and landed a role in sales.
“The course just didn’t feel right so I looked at my other options.
The degree apprenticeship is more suited to my goals, and I like studying alongside working in industry.”
“I love the Burnley campus , especially Victoria Mill.
The facilities are fantastic here and I’m looking forward to seeing the new library because it looks a good place to go and study.”
Niamh is due to graduate in May 2022 with a Business Management degree in addition to being recognition as a Chartered Manager and a Member of the Chartered Management Institute (CMgr MCMI).
Click here to find out more about our Degree Apprenticeships.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/business/research-and-innovation/innovation-lab:
The Innovation Lab is an award-winning digital production team based in the Engineering Innovation Centre at the University of Central Lancashire.
The Innovation Lab is comprised of a multi-skilled team of professionals delivering a broad range of creative digital and communication solutions in web, online learning, extended reality (ER), augmented reality (AR), virtual reality (VR), video, multimedia, graphic design, and print.
We have been successfully assisting businesses in the North of England since 2012.
The unit is directed and managed by colleagues with many years of commercial experience working with small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and blue-chip companies.
We work with organisations in education, tourism and retail, as well as local authorities, Premiership football clubs and national house builders.
This experience is combined with a creative production team who are well-versed in the latest technologies, giving us a cutting edge.
We are a commercial unit and we can work with partners to attract funding for either internal or external customers.
Customers we have supported include:
Innovation Lab are pioneers in virtual and augmented reality.
We enhance engagement by merging digital and real-world views through extended reality (XR), and creating digital environments with virtual reality (VR) .
We are at the forefront of these technologies, which change how we interact with our surroundings.
Our team improve XR's accessibility and effectiveness across various applications.
Our projects are available via smartphones and headgear.
This integration broadens XR technology use.
Online learning utilises digital technology to produce educational content and create interactive learning experiences.
This makes education more accessible for a diverse range of learners and removes geographical barriers.
Our aim is to make online learning a fun and rewarding experience.
We have worked in a wide range of sectors including the NHS, SMEs, public sector organisations and educational clients.
Digital twinning creates accurate digital replicas for modelling, testing, monitoring and maintenance.
Innovation Lab excels in developing these twins, mirroring physical counterparts.
This helps to improve operational efficiency and decision-making.
It enables early-stage virtual prototyping, simulation, and refinement.
This allows us to improve performance by predicting and optimising the lifecycle of assets.
Innovation Lab believe in the art of storytelling through film, sound, and digital visualisation.
Our team are experienced in producing and editing video, as well lighting and sound production.
We create high quality media for corporates, CPD, podcasts, and social media.
We also produce live streaming for corporates, music concerts, sporting events and product launches.
We integrate photography and Artificial Intelligence (AI), allowing us to offer our clients state-of-the-art solutions.
Our unique approach delivers exceptional visual content, ensuring the client effectively communicates their brand message.
Innovation Lab have a wealth of experience developing websites.
We ensure that our sites are visually appealing and easy to navigate, in order to meets our clients' needs.
We have Front-End and Full-Stack developers who are well-versed in HTML, PHP, CSS JavaScript and UX.
We can capture the intended look and feel of the site, while also creating a quality user experience across devices.
Innovation Lab uses AI for digital media creation, which automates editing, enhances quality and generates dynamic visuals.
This approach streamlines work and increases efficiency.
By leveraging AI, we can optimise production for diverse channels and audiences.
Danny Livingstone, Project Manager, Innovation Lab
Email: innovationlab@uclan.ac.uk
Tel: +44 (0)1772 895653

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/business/research-and-innovation/luip:
The Lancashire Universities’ Innovation Programme is a collaborative programme funded by Preston’s UK Shared Prosperity Fund.
The programme is delivered by the University of Lancashire, Lancaster University and Edge Hill University.
The aim of the programme is to support businesses based in Preston with their innovation needs.
Between three Universities, our support includes:
The project brings together extensive industry and academic expertise, state-of-the-art facilities and technology.
Together with tailored support, it will enable businesses to turn ideas into realities.
The programme provides research informed, industry engaged training, designed to enhance the management skills in Lancashire.
We can help your business to enhance your management capacity and capability.
Our support will empower your business to promote productivity, health and wellbeing in your workforce.
When a new company joins the programme, we will complete an Innovation Roadmap to ensure we can tailor the support to their individual needs.
We also have a number of partners we are able to sign post to during and after the support received from us.
Partnerships with all types of businesses are welcome.
We also welcome Community Interest Companies (CICs), and charities located within the Preston City Council postcode areas.
Additionally, we have capacity to support a small number of organisations in the West Lancashire region.
To find out more information please email the Lancashire Universities' Innovation Programme Team.
The Lancashire Universities' Innovation Programme is supported by staff from the following Universities:
Dr Ambreen Chohan - Project Lead
Lucy Hutchinson - Senior Projects Officer
Dr Adrian Wright – Lead for Better People Management
Alex Errington - Senior Project Manager
Sula Ross – Knowledge Exchange Services Manager
Michael Banford - Associate Director of SME Productivity & Innovation Centre
Steve McArdle - Business Development Manager
Kim Coker - Compliance Coordinator
This project is funded by the UK government through the UK Shared Prosperity Fund.
The UK Shared Prosperity Fund (UKSPF) is a central pillar of support for the community, aimed at empowering communities and driving locally led growth.
By allocating £900 million for local investment by March 2026, the UKSPF is designed to catalyse economic development and expand opportunities across all regions of the UK.
The purpose of the Fund is to improve pride in place and increase life chances across the UK.
It aims to do this by investing in communities and place and supporting local business, people and skills.
For more information, visit the Government's UK Shared Prosperity Fund: prospectus page.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/business/research-and-innovation/commercialisation:
Is your business looking to partner with us to create commercial opportunities to licence and develop intellectual property (IP)?
Our portfolio of IP may be beneficial to your company to license, we are happy to discuss this with you further.
Our IP covers a wide range of categories, including: Biomedical Sciences, Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Forensic Sciences, Nuclear Sciences, Materials and Nano-Materials Technologies, Tribology Technologies, Pharmacy and 3D Printing Technologies.
The Intellectual Property & Commercialisation team have produced and maintain the IP portal which provides more details relating to the IP which is available for license.
We have a vibrant research culture and there are a growing number of opportunities for businesses to engage, collaborate and license our intellectual property.
The Investment Readiness project supports Lancashire SMEs in becoming ready for investment.
The Lancashire Health Matters programme is a partnership between UCLan and the NHS Innovation Agency.
We provide SMEs in Lancashire who have created new approaches, practices or products with the support needed to help them gain access to the NHS and social care markets.
The Medical Innovation and Commercialisation Accelerator Programme (MedIComm) is a unique programme in partnership with UCLan and four Lancashire NHS trusts.
The Spin-Out Process
The University of Central Lancashire has adopted recommendations from the Government’s independent review of university spin-out companies in relation to its spin-out process.
University founding equity and spin-out terms are aligned with and guided by best-practice as provided by the TenU USIT Guide and USIT Software Guide .
Founders are encouraged to adopt amongst themselves proportionate equity distribution that both recognises the contributions to originating IP and continued intellectual support, but also the need to reward and incentivise those individuals who will commit considerable effort in taking the company forward.
Furthermore, income received by the University from licensing IP (royalties and other licensing fees) will be distributed according to the revenue-sharing terms stated in our IP policy .
The University aims to achieve within a time frame of three months from approval of a business case for spin-out creation the provision of an initial draft of legal terms.
Read our policies:

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/business/eic:
The Engineering Innovation Centre (EIC) located on our Preston Campus brings together world-leading research, leading business minds and inspiring teaching in a spirit of collaboration and discovery.
The EIC offers a wide-ranging portfolio of industry engagement opportunities:
When you work with us, you have access to specialist staff, state-of-the-art engineering facilities, industry leading technologies and the expertise of our researchers inside a first-class facility.
The EIC strengthens Lancashire’s position as a national centre of excellence for aerospace, advanced engineering and manufacturing and contributes towards maintaining the UK’s reputation as a global leader in these areas.
The centre hosts a range of facilities include high quality business meeting spaces, innovation zones and industry project rooms alongside our specialist areas.
We secured £10.5 million worth of funding via the Lancashire Enterprise Partnerships’ Growth Deal.
We have also received £5.8 million from the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) and £5 million from HEFCE’s STEM Capital Fund.
Our engineering courses are shaped by industry demand and in collaboration with industry experts and organisations from across the region.
This equips our students with practical skills to enhance their employability, helping to support the economy now and in the future.
We aim to respond directly to significant priorities in contemporary society and to elements of the UK industrial strategy.
In doing so, we address industrial problems by combining practical experience with education so that we can develop regional skills and abilities.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/news/kef2023:
The University scored ‘highly’ and ‘very highly’ in six areas of the latest Knowledge Exchange Framework
The University of Central Lancashire (UCLan) has once again been nationally recognised for its very high levels of engagement with local regeneration and with public and third sector organisations.
Results of the third Knowledge Exchange Framework (KEF) , published today (27 September), show the institution ranked in the top 20% of English Higher Education Institutions in the areas of local growth and regeneration; working with the public and third sector; and continuous professional development (CPD) and graduate start-ups.
As well as being ahead of other HEIs in our ‘cluster’, similar HEIs in size and scope, UCLan also scored highly in the areas of intellectual property and commercialisation; public and community engagement; and research partnerships.
Professor StJohn Crean, Pro Vice-Chancellor for Research and Enterprise, said: “I’m delighted this year’s KEF results reflect the fantastic work we do with such a wide range of partners.
“Our results demonstrate our importance as an anchor institution within Lancashire and Cumbria, as we are at the heart of many education, research and training initiatives that are increasing qualifications and skills and boosting inclusion and productivity across the North West.
“I’m particularly pleased that we’ve improved our public and community engagement score as we do many fantastic activities with such a wide number of schools and community groups, including running the award-winning Lancashire Science Festival.”
UCLan plays an integral role within the region’s growth and regeneration ecosystem.
It supports or participates in many different organisations, including the Allied Health Science Network, various NHS Trusts, Lancashire Enterprise Partnership, Burnley Bondholders, a number of Chambers of Commerce and Industry, and local authorities, as well as sector bodies such as the North West Aerospace Alliance.
It also represents Lancashire at regional and national levels including discussions with Government departments.
Working with employers, particularly small and medium sized enterprises (SMEs), to develop and deliver regeneration and re-skilling programmes is a huge part of the University’s offering.
Helping local employees gain new skills and qualifications through continuous professional development courses, professional training and higher and degree apprenticeship programmes are cornerstones of business development.
UCLan now has nearly 1,900 degree apprentices on 30 programmes across a wide range of sectors, with five more courses starting this month.
Those degree apprentices, from 750 businesses, are gaining higher level skills and qualifications through a variety of programmes.
In recent years, the University’s regeneration in Preston has seen investment up to £200 million to transform the centre of the campus, including the creation of the state-of-the-art University Square and Student Centre.
These sit alongside the Engineering and Innovation Centre which houses a selection of our research and knowledge exchange teams working on projects with businesses in areas such as drone technology, robotics, medtech, diagnostic technology and digital innovation.
NASA, Google, BAE Systems, NHS, People’s Health Trust, British Cycling, Silent Night and Recycling Lives Ltd are also long-term research partners of the University.
The KEF, which scores the rich contributions that English higher education providers make, both economically and socially, on both local and national levels, has been undertaken by Research England and involved 127 institutions.
It compares institutions on a like-for-like basis, with similar institutions being grouped together with their peers in ‘KEF clusters’ based on factors like their size, specialisation and the intensity of their research activities.
Professor Dame Jessica Corner, Executive Chair of Research England, said: “Across the breadth of higher education, institutions make rich and diverse contributions to the economy and society through their knowledge exchange activities.
“Research England is delighted to announce today the publication of the latest version of the Knowledge Exchange Framework (KEF3).
The KEF continues to be a powerful tool to describe the breadth of scope of knowledge exchange.
It also provides important evidence of different university strengths through peer group comparisons.
“KEF is now in its third year and the method has been rigorously tested and begins to give us a picture of changes in performance over time.
Research England’s knowledge exchange experts have presented some findings from KEF3 on comparative trends in the important government priority area of business engagement, as a taster of how it may be used as an analytical tool on sector performance dynamics.
I look forward to discussion on how we can use the KEF further as we gather data over multiple years.”

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/business/silentnight-partnership:
They help businesses like Silentnight improve competitiveness, productivity and performance, through seamless interfacing with the University’s experts.
Silentnight Group, based in Barnoldswick, Lancashire, has been working with the University of Lancashire on several key partnerships.
One such partnership focused on applying evidence-based research to marketing claims.
As a result, it has helped strengthen Silentnight’s position as the UK’s most trusted sleep brand.
The campaign was developed following a shift in how evidence-based marketing is viewed and valued, a change that was influenced by the collaboration.
Professor of Biomechanics at the University, Jim Richards explained: “The partnership between Silentnight and the Allied Health Research unit at the University aimed to enhance the evidence-based marketing of mattress selection through “Better Sleep Backed by Science” and has allowed the development of a decision tool that allows consumers to make smarter decisions when purchasing a mattress.”
The other partnership involved innovation in fire chemistry.
This work has helped their future-proofing efforts to become more resilient.
It has also informed government thinking on fire safety regulations for homes.
" The two new initiates will be managed by the two KTP Associates who have now been welcomed into the company as full-time Research Knowledge Managers.
Professor of Chemistry and Fire Science, Richard Hull said: “We worked with Silentnight to understand the chemical, health and environmental implications of the flame retardants their suppliers had been using.
We evaluated the effectiveness and hazards of the flame retardant in the fabrics and fillings and used this information to help Silentnight select the cleanest, greenest components to use in their beds.
The additional scientific input is now having impacts throughout the furniture industry, and fits very well with the government's imminent revision of the furniture flammability regulations.”
Angela Moran, ESG Director at Silentnight Group, highlights the value that KTPs bring: Both KTPs with the University of Lancashire have been a very rewarding experience, challenging all parties involved and enriching collective wisdom through knowledge exchange.
We now view our relationship as a long-term partnership and are very much looking forward to a couple of new joint initiatives.
The two new initiates will be managed by the two KTP Associates who have now been welcomed into the company as full-time Research Knowledge Managers.
The managers will be working with the University on two new projects.
One of these will focus on further improving the nation’s sleep through innovative new testing devices, the other in driving the company forward in material science, especially around the use of fire retardants and the group’s vision to move towards a more circular economy.
" My current exciting career path as Silentnight’s Sleep Expert would not have been possible without the kick start from the KTP.
Former KTP Associate and current Sleep Knowledge and Research Manager, Hannah Shore said: “The KTP allowed me to apply the knowledge and skills I have learnt throughout university, into an industry I hadn’t considered previously.
Being able to work with both the university and industry together expanded my research knowledge to real-world business scenarios.
My current exciting career path as Silentnight’s Sleep Expert would not have been possible without the kick start from the KTP.”
Jake Lane, Material Research and Knowledge Manager at Silentnight Group, revealed: "I was attracted to KTPs as I wanted to carry out research that had real world benefits.
The KTP allowed me to develop and broaden my skills and knowledge, giving me insights into business and industry while maintaining links with academia.
Since the KTP ended, I have continued to work for Silentnight as Materials Knowledge and Research Manager, giving a more holistic insight into the materials that make up their mattresses and beds.”
For any company thinking about a KTP, Angela said: “We would absolutely recommend the KTP route as it’s a unique way to not only engage in research, but to broaden perspectives and identify future stars for your business.
The impact of the academic-business-associate collaboration not only adds variety and richness but helps change behaviours and beliefs."
Find out how your business can work with the University to access our knowledge, technology and skills.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/research/fitness-device-created-through-knowledge-transfer-partnership:
Swellaway Limited based in Lymm, Cheshire know the value Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs) can bring.
Working with the University of Central Lancashire (UCLan) and Manchester Metropolitan University they have been able to develop cutting-edge devices such as ProMOTION EV1 for use by athletes to get back to fitness, faster.
The battery-powered portable digital device endorsed by England footballer Harry Maguire reduces swelling of associated with injuries by providing cooling, heating and compression.
Athletes now can receive treatment at home or while on the move, set precise programmable treatments and capture data through a smartphone app.
UCLan researchers Jill Alexander and Professor Jim Richards have been heavily involved in the research and development phases of the device, alongside Professor James Selfe from Manchester Metropolitan University They conducted rigorous testing on the product and developed treatment protocols using the device to deliver the best treatment response and recovery.
Maguire started using the device earlier this year, after sustaining an ankle injury.
Professor Jim Richards said: “The three-way Knowledge Transfer Partnership between Swellaway, UCLan and Manchester Metropolitan University has allowed us to increase the evidence base for the management of injuries such as Harry’s ankle injury.
Using the ProMOTION EV1 we were able to deliver a much more precise and targeted treatment to help his recovery”.
The partnership has also helped Swellaway improve competitiveness and productivity through the development of the tech-enabled lightweight device.
" The research developed by Manchester Metropolitan University and UCLan will be instrumental for the success of our product.
We are sure that it will help us successfully develop our current product together with our future planned devices.
We are delighted to share that the University has been shortlisted in no less than five categories for the Times Higher Education (THE) Awards 2022 , widely regarded as the 'Oscars of higher education'.
This project has been shortlisted in the category ‘Knowledge Exchange/Transfer Initiative of the Year (Manchester Metropolitan University, in collaboration with the University of Central Lancashire and Swellaway Ltd)’.
We would like to recognise the invaluable contributions of Professor Jim Richards and Dr Jill Alexander from the University, Professor James Selfe and Dr Christopher McCarthy from Manchester Metropolitan University and Olivia Greenhalgh from Swellaway, and we wish everyone involved the best of luck at the awards which will be presented at the Hilton London Metropole on 17 November.
This KTP project was funded by UKRI through Innovate UK.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/research/bed-manufacturer-partnership:
Leeds-based Harrison Spinks is one of Great Britain’s most established, innovative and sustainable bed manufacturers.
In partnership with the University of Central Lancashire (UCLan), they completed a successful Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP).
The KTP was developed based on unique patented micro-spring technology (MST).
The focus of the project was to enable the integration of MST into running shoes to reduce impact forces experienced by runners, providing the world’s first true footwear-based spring-damper arrangement.
Research undertaken throughout the KTP addressed the strengths and weaknesses of the use of Harrison Spinks MST, giving an understanding of the challenges of applying spring technology to footwear.
Supported by UCLan’s Professor Jim Richards, Harrison Spinks progressed their technology from a concept, to be in a position to potentially launch footwear products into two separate markets.
They also gained a greater understanding of how their product (MST) could operate in different product areas.
The KTP was also transformative for them as it changed their way of working, the increased research presence developed by the Associate meant a greater emphasis on data and quality throughout the business.
Darren Marcangelo, Commercial Director of Spinks Springs, highlighted the impact of the collaboration, stating: ‘’The KTP has allowed our business to understand much more about our products than we previously thought.
Harrison Spinks have only become experts in pocket sprung footwear as a direct result of the KTP, proving an invaluable way to diversify our product into other markets.’’
The KTP Associate was offered and accepted the position of Head of Research at Harrison Spinks, and the KTP Final Report was awarded the highest assessment of ‘Outstanding’ from Innovate UK.
This role has continued to support the company and has contributed to the impressive growth and product development at Harrison Spinks.
" The KTP has allowed our business to understand much more about our products than we previously thought "

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/research/silentnight-group-cements-new-marketing-approach:
The Silentnight Group, established in 1946, is the UK’s leading bed and mattress manufacturer.
The group produces on average 18,000 mattresses per week under the brands, Silentnight, Sealy and Rest Assured.
By working with the University of Central Lancashire they have cemented a new and dynamic evidence-based marketing approach.
The ‘Better Sleep, Backed by Science’ campaign was developed after a significant change in the perception and value of evidence-based marketing brought about by the partnership.
This also led to a website redesign around ‘Expert’s Choice’, which aims to help consumer’s find their best mattress match according to key sleep-related health issues such as waking with aches and pains or overheating.
The work of the KTP has also brought about a re-thinking of the role of the group’s laboratory and a change in focus beyond routine compliance testing.
A new sleep lab room has been designed and a full-time position created to continue this work.
Both the in-house sleep lab and the sleep selector algorithm are industry-leading within the sector.
Professor Jim Richards said: “This KTP project has challenged the team to achieve the end goal.
It has been an interesting and exciting journey that has allowed the development of both Academic and Company Partner staff, allowing new opportunities to be created and further development of research themes and the enhancement of a core evidence-based marketing ethos”.
New Product Implementation Manager at Silentnight Danny Blackmore sees the value that KTPs can bring to businesses: “The business has benefited greatly from this work and we have now applied for a second KTP to assist in filling a knowledge gap in a different discipline.
Silentnight would encourage other businesses to look to KTPs to future proof themselves”.
The KTP Associate was offered and accepted the position to further develop the in-house sleep lab at Silentnight, and the KTP Final Report was awarded the second highest assessment score of ‘Very Good’ from Innovate UK.
" Silentnight would encourage other businesses to look to KTPs to future proof themselves "

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/alumni-spotlight/hannah-shore:
From sport science to sleep science, Hannah turned her passion into a career, now helping people get a better night’s rest as Head of Sleep Science at Mattress Online.
After finishing school, Hannah Shore wasn’t sure what career path to take, so she decided to pursue a subject she most enjoyed, sport.
As a keen hockey player with a love for all things sport-related, she became fascinated by sports science.
Learning that she could study BSc (Hons) Sport Science at the University of Central Lancashire made her university choice much easier.
"Learning isn’t a chore when you are enjoying the subjects.
I enjoyed learning about the body from each individual cell, to understand how to train and push the body and even how different pieces of equipment can have a significant impact on sporting performance.", Hannah said.
After graduating, she spent a year applying for jobs while working for the Students’ Union as an Activity Activator.
The role involved encouraging student participation, organising events, and engaging with a wide range of people.
She also spent a summer working at The Sea Life Centre in Blackpool, delivering talks about marine life.
These roles allowed her to stay in Preston, a city she had grown to love, and helped build valuable communication and presentation skills.
She said: "These experiences definitely shaped my ability to speak confidently to both individuals and large groups, something I still use daily when giving talks about the importance of sleep and mattresses."
During her undergraduate studies, Hannah developed a particular interest in biomechanics, one of the three major disciplines alongside psychology and physiology, so she stayed on to complete a MSc Sports Biomechanics .
After completing her Masters, Hannah found a job with the help of the University careers service as a Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) Associate, a role that paired Hannah with mattress manufacturer, Silentnight, for a two-year research project titled ‘Finding the Ideal Sleeping Solution’.
"I was lucky to have the University of Central Lancashire as my University as they instigated the Silentnight connection.
The research was ‘Finding the Ideal Sleeping Solution’, and although not sport related, utilised all the biomechanical techniques I learnt throughout my studies.
So instead of pushing the body for high performances, we would now be looking at how we can support the body for optimal rest.", Hannah said.
Hannah stayed on with Silentnight following the KTP, continuing her work in understanding how various elements of a mattress can impact sleep quality, both biomechanically and behaviourally.
Her growing interest in sleep led her to enrol in the University of Oxford’s Online Sleep Medicine programme in 2020.
She graduated two years later with a Postgraduate Diploma and now applies her combined knowledge of biomechanics and sleep science to help people achieve better sleep.
" My degree has directly impacted me starting my career.
I wouldn’t be where I am today if I hadn’t spent countless hours in lecture theatres, biomechanics labs and running around a sports field!
The experiences and time I spent at UCLan have all contributed to how I work and the friends I have.
Now, Hannah is Head of Sleep Science at Mattress Online.
"To put it simply, I test beds.
Unfortunately that doesn’t mean I get to nap all day!
I work closely with many different brands to understand their products we sell online and ensure we are giving our customers the best information out there about what they are buying.
I create links between the product and materials used in them and understand how this can help each person sleep better.
There are many different products out there and it is my role to ensure everyone who shops with us gets the right product for them, it is a tricky category to shop but hopefully we can help our customers do that easier.
Part of my role is to also keep up to date in the world of sleep research.
Understanding how we sleep and the things that can affect our sleep allows us to provide advice on certain aspects of sleep." Hannah said.
Some of Hannah’s favourite memories from her time at the University revolve around the friendships she formed through hockey.
"The friendships I made are still going strong today, we are spread up and down the country, from the top of Cumbria all the way to Cambridge and yet we are as close as ever and have University to thank for that.", she said.
Since graduating, Hannah's proud to have presented her research at three major sleep conferences: the European Sleep Research Society Conference in Basel, the World Sleep Congress in Vancouver, and the British Sleep Research Society Conference in Birmingham, where she was awarded the Green Ribbon Prize.
She has also collaborated with major brands like Silentnight, Premier Inn, and QVC, helping raise awareness of the importance of sleep, something she’s glad to do everyday in her current role at Mattress Online.
Her advice to current and future students."Take every opportunity no matter how big or small, stepping out of your comfort zone (even if only a little bit) can lead you to the most unexpected places.
I never expected to end up in this field of work but now work in a job I love and in an industry that I never even thought of exploring.", she said.
She also reflects on the impact the University's support had on her academic journey.
"I had some of the best support from my lectures at UCLan.
I ended up re-sitting my first year due to illness, most people would drop out but it was the support of all the lecturers in my first year, and throughout my course, that made me carry on with my studies.
On top of this, it was only when I got to University that my learning difficulties were picked up/discovered, which I was again supported not just by the lecturing staff but also the support teams.
If it wasn’t for them I wouldn't be where I am today."

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/business/student-enterprise-hub:
Students responding to business challenges with creativity and innovation.
The Student Enterprise Hub (SEHub) is the home for Student Enterprise at UCLan.
Changing lives and growing opportunities for students, businesses, and communities.
Offering a door to unique perspective across all course disciplines, and industry sectors to solve challenges and support regeneration in the local economy.
To sustain our programme, we ask for employer contributions, often using Corporate Social Responsibility funds to cover the cost and to enable us to continue to provide this direct access to the next generation of talent for your business or organisation.
" Age UK Stockport's experience of working with UCLan's Creative Innovation Zone has been fantastic.
Collaborating to develop a solution to our brief we have been so impressed by the quality of ideations, creative thinking, and final outcome.
Director of the Student Enterprise Hub ELMSpeed@uclan.ac.uk 01772 895959
Head of Business Engagement and Enterprise BWood3@uclan.ac.uk 01772 893386
Operations Manager LLDinham@uclan.ac.uk 01772 893399
Deputy Operations Manager RBrindle2@uclan.ac.uk 01772 894636
Project Coordinator dspencer7@uclan.ac.uk 01772 893972
Head of Business Start-Up Clawrenson1@uclan.ac.uk 01772 892254
" It was a great experience for us to collaborate with UCLan Fashion Promotion students – a real breath of fresh air to work with young people who can apply their creativity so easily.
The group had a dynamic approach and their passion shone through.
The findings from the project have already been used within the business.
Student Enterprise Hub Email: SEHub@uclan.ac.uk Tel: +44 (0)1772 895995
Instagram LinkedIn YouTube

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/centres/doctoral-training-centre:
In 2022, the University of Central Lancashire established the Doctoral Training Centre (DTC) for Industry Collaboration.
Our Doctoral Training Centre provides excellent postgraduate research opportunities.
These opportunities are supported by a wide programme of skills training and professional development activities.
Our PhD students engage in both internally-funded and partner-funded projects.
The focus of our studentships is industry collaboration with external organisations.
This is to provide added value to research projects and support the professional development of each doctoral candidate.
Each studentship aligns with our strategic focus and an area of existing research strength.
These opportunities contribute to the achievement of regional and national research goals.
Additionally, they support development investment agendas for growth.
Each student is awarded a fully-funded studentship for three years, comprising of:
The DTC offers a bespoke training course for PhD students.
The training focuses on developing transferable, research and academic skills.
We are pleased to announce that the University has been successful in obtaining funding under the Royal Society Entrepreneur in Residence scheme.
The DTC is managed by the following members of staff at the university.
The DTC is also supported by an advisory board feeding into the strategic objectives.
Dr Gavin Sim is the Director of the UCLan Doctoral Training Centre for Industry Collaboration.
Gavin is responsible for developing the strategic direction of the DTC including the recruitment of students, overseeing the training provision, liaising with external organisations and financial management.
Clare is the Manager of the UCLan Doctoral Training Centre for Industry Collaboration.
Clare is responsible for managing and developing the DTC education offering which includes the DTC training programme, development support, and events.
Clare supports the DTC Director, the management and advisory boards, and each DTC cohort, to enhance the student journey and experience.
For further information about the Doctoral Training Centre, please email dtc@uclan.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/business/hurstwood-apprenticeships:
Director and current executive degree apprentice, David Clarkson, highlights the value that Degree Apprenticeships bring to both employers and employees.
Hurstwood Environmental Consulting has offices in Liverpool and Bolton and employs 20 staff.
They provide a variety of services including electrical and mechanical design, management, and consultancy.
Hurstwood's philosophy for projects is to work harmoniously with the client and the design and construction teams to ensure a successfully completed project, on time, to budget and in compliance with the client's requirements.
Core to their design approach is the use of renewable and sustainable energy, whilst maintaining a practical cost-effective solution.
Director and current executive degree apprentice David Clarkson knows first-hand the value they bring.
David who recently began his studies on the Business Administration (Executive) programme said: “As my role has developed and changed, I wanted to get a better understanding and grasp of how to effectively run a business and manage teams.”
David became aware of our offer as he already had several apprentices studying on the University of Central Lancashire’s (UCLan) BEng Building Services & Sustainable Engineering Degree Apprenticeship .
After enquiring directly for a suitable course, he enrolled.
Talking about his experience, David commented: "After 24 years of work and 15 years since I was last in a formal learning environment it makes a refreshing change to be focusing on my own development for the betterment of not only me but also my business.
The lecturers I have had so far are engaging, informed and a pleasure to be in the room with."
David has already begun to see changes in the workplace as the younger degree apprentices initiated the sharing of new knowledge with older employees.
The inquisitive nature of the apprentices ensures the older engineers often take more time to re-evaluate what and why they are doing a task in a particular manner.
This has now led to improvements in the workplace.
" After 24 years of work and 15 years since I was last in a formal learning environment it makes a refreshing change to be focusing on my own development for the betterment of not only me but also my business.
David said: “We as a business, believe in the development of the next generation and the ideas that younger engineers bring to the table keeps the old guard on their toes.
We want our business to continue on for many years to come and hope that in time one or more of our apprentices will hold directorships with us or at other practices.”
The business values staff improvement and through their development it has seen staff become inquisitive, informed team members with useful industry specific qualifications through Degree Apprenticeships.
This in turn makes the team and business stronger with confident young engineers that are engaged with their work and subject.
The outlook being that they will become future leaders ensuring the longevity of the business.
Reflecting on his experiences with the University, David said: “Working with the team at UCLan is always a pleasure.
Having degree apprentices within the workplace assists in all levels of personal and professional development whilst at the same time safeguarding our own business’ future, ensuring younger, suitably qualified engineers are ready to step into future managerial roles as they become available.”

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/research/ref:
The Research Excellence Framework (REF) is the process for assessing the quality of research in UK Higher Education institutions.
The REF uses a process of expert review with sub-panels for each of 34 Units of Assessment (UOAs) working under the guidance of four broad main panels.
The REF assesses:
The REF 2021 institutional submission for the University of Central Lancashire has been a huge team effort, especially during a pandemic, but colleagues have, as always, risen to the challenge with world-leading research and impact ranging from local to global communities, from wellbeing to the Arts, and from policy to public engagement.
UCLan's REF 2021 submission included 445 staff with significant responsibility for research, 1000+ research outputs and 50 impact case studies to REF 2021 across 19 Units of Assessment.
We are committed to producing research that is relevant to the real world.
Many of our researchers are world-leading experts whose work is transforming lives globally.
Our research is contributing towards UN Sustainability Goals and two-thirds of our REF 2021 Impact Case Studies involve countries receiving Official Development Assistance (ODA) funding or UK areas ranking in the 25% most deprived nationally.
For more information on the Research Excellence Framework, please email the Research Assessment team .

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/research/knowledge-exchange:
We establish collaborative partnerships with our stakeholders in industry and the wider public.
Our reputation for applied business research, entrepreneurship, innovation and public engagement drives economic and societal impact.
We are a Northern Powerhouse partner, working alongside others to strengthen the North West economy.
Entrepreneurship is embedded in our curricula.
We carry out world-leading research that has local and global impact, leading to commercial opportunities where appropriate.
We value partnerships with external stakeholders, collaborating on opportunities arising in the public and private sectors.
We provide workforce skills through our Degree Apprenticeship and continuing professional development (CPD) provision, and we offer expert consultancy and a range of services to help business to grow.
Our strong achievements in the Government's Knowledge Exchange Framework, highlight the diverse ways in which we share our knowledge, expertise and skills with stakeholders.
Find out about our latest KEF results
Collaborative partnerships can play a crucial role in helping businesses to thrive.
We support businesses to create commercial opportunities to licence and develop intellectual property (IP).
We offer a range of services relating to intellectual property, that can help businesses innovate and grow.
Our award-winning Centre for SME and Enterprise Development epitomises our commitment to being an outstanding, sector-leading entrepreneurial institution which seeks to foster a more productive and innovative SME sector in Lancashire.
We offer an exciting range of CPD courses available across a range of specialist areas, all in small bite-sized chunks of education.
Some courses are accredited, and others are standalone programmes.
Hiring an apprentice or upskilling an employee can help enhance your workforce.
We are the number one choice for apprenticeships and professional development.
Discover the benefits to your business, how to take on an apprentice and how we can support you.
They are a government-funded programme through Innovate UK and help businesses to improve competitiveness, productivity and performance.
As a major local employer and education provider, the University plays a pivotal role in addressing productivity, skills and wealth gaps in Lancashire and Cumbria.
Local growth and regeneration are at the heart of our Strategic Plan.
We have an inclusive higher education provision which helps to accelerate socioeconomic growth in the region, reacting and adapting to local needs and challenges.
From local events to global projects, engaging with communities is a core part of our work.
We're committed to being an open and accessible university with a civic purpose.
The University has signed up to the Knowledge Exchange Concordat (KEC) which demonstrates our commitment to growth and improved knowledge exchange.
It supports the partnership working with external businesses and organisations that are integral to success.
We have a growing and vibrant community of innovative academics who nurture our postgraduate students and early-career researchers, producing high quality international and world-leading research that addresses today’s challenges.
These include performances and exhibitions, alumni, sport and outdoor events, public lectures, festivals, events at the Harris Museum and more…

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/research/applied-health-research-hub:
The Applied Health Research Hub (AHRh) combines the expertise of specialists and administrators, working to advance health and care research through impactful projects and public sector partnerships.
The Applied Health Research Hub (AHRh) at the University of Central Lancashire delivers research, innovation, and enterprise projects relevant to health and care technology areas.
The hub is led by Professor Dame Caroline Watkins and provides research design and statistical support (RDSS).
It leverages our expertise in experimental design, statistics, health economics, evidence synthesis, information science, and implementation science.
The Applied Health Research Hub includes three sub-units:
Applied Health Research Hub colleagues can deliver experimental design, statistics, health economics, evidence synthesis, information science, implementation science and more.
The Lancashire Clinical Trials Unit offers a quality assured service for the coordination and delivery of clinical trials for complex interventions.
The Research Facilitation and Delivery Unit (RFDU) offer specialised administrative services and expert guidance, tailored to the unique demands of research.
RFDU provides high-quality academic support to ensure the success and effectiveness of research activity.
Our projects develop innovation and create opportunities for enterprise within the health and care sectors.
View more of our research on CLoK .

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/research/engagement:
Public engagement is a key component of the modern academic's portfolio.
Increasingly, research funders expect that engagement takes place during the research lifecycle.
This may be through co-creation of research, dissemination of research outputs or outreach activities.
The public engagement team can support the integration of engagement activity within research, for example:
To contact a member of the team email the Engage team.
Visit the current opportunities page to find out how to get involved with the research and learning.
You could participate in research, talk about your life experiences to students, or represent your business community.
Our public engagement research focuses on the impacts of widening participation and public engagement activities, in both science and access to higher education more widely.
Recent publications include:

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/research/integrity:
We are a member of the UK Research Integrity Office (UKRIO).
We recognise our responsibility to researchers and the wider community to ensure the highest standards of integrity and professionalism are observed in the conduct of research and supports the commitments under the Universities UK Concordat to Support Research Integrity.
As a member of the UK Research Integrity Office (UKRIO), our staff and students must maintain the highest professional standards as they conduct their research.
UCLan has put policies and procedures in place to cover and protect the quality of research, from its initial conception, through to publication and other forms of dissemination into society.
University of Central Lancashire has been a subscriber to the UK Research Integrity Office since 2015.
Our subscription reference is UCL-01.
The UK Research Integrity Office (UKRIO) is an independent advisory body & registered charity.
They offer support to the public, researchers, and organisations to further good practice in research.
It was created in response to longstanding and growing concerns about the reliability of research.
UKRIO is the UK’s most experienced research integrity organisation.
Since 2006, it has provided independent & expert support across all disciplines of research.
It works to enhance good research practice, address mistakes, questionable practices and fraud, and improve the culture and systems of UK research.
Research integrity is another name for ‘good research practice’.
It’s the conduct of research in ways that promote trust and confidence in all aspects of the research process.
Research integrity covers all research and the whole lifecycle, from the initial idea of the project through to the conduct of the research.
It also covers making sure that environments and systems for research improve good research practice.
To find out more, see how the UK Research Integrity Office define and explain research integrity.
Guidance and support through publications on research practice, training activities and a comprehensive events programme
Clear and honest development for the research community through facilitated discussions about key issues, informing national and international initiatives, and working to improve research culture.
Confidential and expert advice and guidance, as a proactive service for both institutions and individual researchers, as well as in response to requests for assistance.
The Chair of the Research, Knowledge Exchange Governance Sub Committee, Professor Duncan Sayer, is the named person within the University responsible for research integrity.
The administrative lead for research integrity matters is Emma Neil Head of Ethics, Integrity and Governance Unit, and queries should be directed to Emma in the first instance.
Email: Officer for ethics Telephone: 01772 892783
PLEASE NOTE:
We are currently in the process of updating our pdfs in line with government accessibility regulations.
For further information, please contact Alexis Holden, Director of Research Services .
The following guidance from external organisations may be useful to all researchers in exploring these issues further:
We work at the forefront of scientific and medical advances in order to impact positively on society.
Animal research plays an important role in some of the research we undertake.
For further information, see our page on research using animals .

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/research/global-challenges-research-fund:
The Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF) was a £1.5 billion fund announced by the UK Government in late 2015 to support cutting-edge research that addresses the challenges faced by developing countries.
The Fund focused on the specific objective of supporting developing countries.
A key approach is that the activity is undertaken with the developing country partner(s), and not to them.
This is significant, as the overarching objective of GCRF activity is to build and embed skills and knowledge in the countries involved.
The Fund was part of the UK’s Official Development Assistance (ODA) commitment.
The Government allocated £58 million from this fund to Research England for distribution to English universities who received Quality-related Research (QR) funding in the 2018-19 academic year.
The University was required to provide a three-year institutional strategy plan, which was subsequently assessed to be Official Development Assistance (ODA) compliant, in order to access the funding allocated for the three years from 2018-19.
The University provides a monitoring report each year which features evidence and case studies of work completed and outcomes achieved.
The following case studies highlight the tremendous and diverse work that UCLan staff are delivering and how this is making an impact on the developing countries and partners.
Sri Lanka is facing a major crisis in waste disposal, with large garbage dumps found in various parts of the country.
One of the contributing factors is non-segregation of waste by the general public.
There are a few organisations involved in waste recycling who also provide monetary payments for segregated waste.
But their activity is hindered due to limited access to segregated waste.
A study led by Ruchira Yapa and Champika Liyanage, two academics from the School of Engineering and Computing, is exploring the feasibility of using mobile applications to promote waste segregation by connecting members of the public with waste collectors.
Key activities include (or are set to include) identifying the design criteria and requirements for the mobile app and its development; and initiating dialogue with policymakers (local councils) and non-government stakeholders (such as private waste recyclers).
The mobile app developed as part of this project is likely to encourage policymakers to explore new technological solutions to solve the waste management problem in Sri Lanka.
Currently two local councils in Sri Lanka have agreed to test the app in two pilot studies.
The proposed activity aspires to create a culture of waste segregation amongst the general public in Sri Lanka, significantly increasing the proportion of waste that is recycled and reducing the widespread practice of dumping and landfilling.
The ultimate aim is that these measures will have a sustained positive impact on the environment.
Climate change is a serious challenge to Tanzanian agriculture, with its effects being felt directly in four of the last ten years.
A project led by Dr Phillip Kostov, Reader in Quantitative Economics at UCLan, aims to assess the effects of climate change on medium and small-scale farmers in Tanzania.
It will deliver recommendations on policies and adaptation measures to deal with these impacts.
A Memorandum of Understanding was signed with the Institute of Financial Management (IFM) in Tanzania to establish an equitable partnership.
The research findings from this and any ensuing research activities will be jointly owned.
Because the project is designed to directly benefit Tanzanians, the role of the IFM in consulting with and disseminating findings amongst stakeholders has been of paramount importance to the success of the project.
A household survey was used to map knowledge of, and attitudes towards, climate change amongst agricultural smallholders, as well as any mitigation strategies employed by them.
The project mapped the impacts of climate change against the available provision of financial services.
The main detrimental effects of climate change on Tanzanian agriculture are drought and soil erosion.
Both are potentially devastating for small agricultural businesses, but at present there are no financial products available to mitigate against their impacts.
Current finance provision is focused on the short-term and does not account for the longer-lasting and increasing intensity of climate impacts.
The importance of financial measures relating to climate change events was identified and communicated to a number of key stakeholders, including local authorities, financial providers and central government.
Overall, the project has raised awareness of the impacts of climate change and has provided interested parties with recipes for alleviating the consequences.
Initial results were shared amongst participants and stakeholders, with the feedback set to form the basis of further investigation.
To date the stakeholders have expressed a deep interest in the research and there is scope for future initiatives.
For instance, financial providers were interested in profiling the potential users of new products in terms of their interests, financial status and likely response to major climate-related events.
More tangible benefits could be achieved by enacting policy measures and private (or public) provision of financial instruments aimed at combating the effects of climate change, but this can only be achieved through further engagement with the relevant stakeholders, from the government to finance providers and the farmers themselves.
In May 2019, Dr Victorio Bambini Junior, Lecturer in Bioscience organised the Connecting Minds conference to promote global collaborative research into autism spectrum disorder.
It was attended by prominent professors from Brazil and Canada together with key researchers from UCLan, clinicians from the North West of England and charities.
The event aimed to stimulate collaborations which would support future research into the needs of people with autism, with a view to finding long-term solutions and bring about sustained improvements to their quality of life.
The project ‘Connecting Minds: A collaboration between UCLan and Fiocruz for neuroimmunomodulation and neglected diseases’ was focused on the development of the collaboration between UCLan and the Fundacao Oswaldo Cruz (Fiocruz-Brazil).
An initial meeting held at UCLan convened several Principal Investigators from Fiocruz along with representatives of other Brazilian institutions, international collaborators from non-Development Assistance Committee (DAC) countries, hospitals and partner British institutions, and a charitable organisation representing stakeholders.
Key collaborating organisations included Lancashire Teaching Hospitals (Royal Preston Hospital), Alder Hey Hospital, The University of Sao Paulo in Brazil, and McMaster University in Canada.
Outcomes to date have included formal collaborations between the institutions and UCLan, along with exchanges of expertise, skills and techniques.
Academic outputs to date have included two collaborative journal articles.
Other emerging benefits include a Memorandum of Understanding involving UCLan and participating institutions in DAC countries.
This will lead to exchanges of staff and students and support other collaborative projects in the near future.
Collaborative efforts will be sustained through the award of a bilateral Erasmus+ grant, and future grant applications will be made.
The main focus of the project is the exchange of staff and degrees for postgraduate students working in areas relevant to DAC countries.
During the conference, the Autism Wellbeing and Research Development (AWARD) was launched.
It will seek to bring together scientists with the common goal of developing research into autism spectrum disorder.
There is already an existing collaboration between UCLan and the pathology laboratory at Lancashire Teaching Hospitals, which undertakes research into neurological disorders and neurodegenerative disorders such as motor neurone disease.
The next phase will be focused on autism, specifically paediatric autism.
A recent project has spearheaded the development of a mentorship education programme for nurses in Sri Lanka.
Mentorship is a well-established practice for supporting student nurses on clinical placements in most developing countries.
However, it is currently not formally undertaken or recognised in Sri Lanka, which potentially impacts negatively on students’ experiences and learning.
As well as dissatisfaction for learners, this also has implications for care quality and patient safety.
Adele Nightingale, Senior Lecturers have collaborated with practitioners from the UK and Sri Lanka to devise a mentorship education programme for Sri Lankan nurses.
Crucial to the success of this project was using UK colleagues’ knowledge and skills to support the Sri Lankan partners to design a programme tailored to their needs.
This has now been approved by the Sri Lankan Ministry of Health and was piloted in 2020.
There were several stages to the programme’s development.
To better understand how mentorship education works in the UK, a Sri Lankan nursing researcher shadowed UCLan staff as they carried out mentorship teaching.
Research involving qualified nurses and students was undertaken in association with the Institute for Research and Development in Sri Lanka and this informed the design of the resulting programme.
The intention is for this to become a registered, nationally-recognised award.
There are also plans for a ‘train the trainer’ programme to ensure that delivery is sustainable in the long-term.
Papers and conference presentations are also in progress.
The programme is expected to bring about sustained benefits for the educational experience of trainee nurses in Sri Lanka, ultimately leading to positive improvements in patient care.
The project contributes to a number of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) which were outlined by the United Nations in 2015 with a view to achieving “a better and more sustainable future for all” by 2030.
The introduction of mentorship as a crucial component of clinical training aims to increase the quality and safety of care (SDG #3) and reduce gender inequality (SDG #5) by challenging traditional power differentials between nurses (mostly female) and doctors (mostly male).
The work will also address the Nursing Now campaign goals which Sri Lanka committed to in October 2018 as well as supporting the country’s entry into the global nursing careers market and the development and delivery of postgraduate nursing qualifications.
Children in India who undertake speech therapy are often forced to use western or Indian software packages which are unengaging and culturally irrelevant to them.
Dr Gavin Sim, Reader in Human-Computer Interaction was involved in developing a two-day course held at IIT Guwahati, India, which demonstrated how child computer interaction methods primarily developed in the west can be effectively applied within India to aid software development.
Children in India were involved in contributing design ideas which were analysed by the project team to form the basis of a speech therapy game.
Based on the children’s ideas, a prototype has been developed to assist children in correcting the pitch of their voice.
Collaboration and understanding have been central to the partnership.
At the outset of the project, research teams spent two days at the All India Institute of Speech and Hearing (AIISH) to gain an understanding of the challenges of working with children in India who have communication disorders.
A number of potential collaborative projects were identified, including the proposed game prototype.
Project partners helped to facilitate a design session involving the children as well as analysing ideas, shaping the game concept and critiquing the suitability of the game within the Indian context.
IIT Guwahati then worked collaboratively with former students to develop the prototype and manage this process.
The key benefit for the partners within India is demonstrating how child computer interaction methods can be used to develop software for children in India around speech therapy.
These methods could be applied to a range of different contexts, not just speech therapy.
IIT Guwahati are adapting these methods within their research and teaching.
People attending the course have had first-hand experience of designing with children and can use these methods in practice to potentially develop better software for children.
AIISH are funded by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare in the Indian Government.
They are also the sole providers of professional training and clinical services for communication disorders in India.
Products developed in partnership with them therefore have the potential to benefit children across the whole of India.
A Memorandum of Understanding between IIT Guwahati has been extended and there are plans to collaborate on future work.
Findings to date have been shared at a Global Challenges in Education: Teaching, Research and Policy conference held at UCLan.
The project demonstrated that child computer interaction methods can be used to develop therapy applications in India.
Based on this, there are ambitions to secure future funding to tackle other communication disorders identified during the initial visit and to improve the diagnostic methods currently used.
Dame Caroline Watkins, Professor of Stroke and Older People's Care worked with colleagues based at UCLan, other UK and Australian Universities, and partners in India, to deliver a two-day conference aimed at advancing clinical stroke care knowledge across India.
The incidence of stroke in India is growing and strokes are occurring at a much younger age there than in other developing countries, and in the UK.
However, there are limited centres specialising in stroke care – just 25-40 stroke centres for the whole of India.
Based on the population size, some 3,500-4,000 centres would be required to provide the minimum level of access.
Evidence demonstrates that being cared for by staff with specialised skills and knowledge is beneficial to all patients and has a positive impact on outcomes.
However, access to stroke-specific training is limited within India.
Working in partnership with Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute of Medical Sciences and Technology (SCTIMST), Trivandrum, India, UCLan and UK-based researchers jointly led the conference, which focused on the essential components of stroke care.
It attracted over 350 healthcare workers from every profession working in stroke care in India.
The programme was developed based on areas of needs and priorities identified by clinical staff within the country.
Sessions included a review of the current evidence base, best practice guidelines and facilitated discussions regarding clinical dilemmas and difficulties in practice.
This was the first multi-disciplinary stroke care conference to be held in India.
The development of the conference programme has led to new working relationships and discussions on potential future collaborations.
Benefits have included the creation of new partnerships for improving stroke care, opportunities for people from different professions to meet and learn about stroke together, and insights into different approaches to learning, allowing examination of evidence, discussion and networking.
The key aim for future work is to ensure that staff working with stroke patients are skilled in delivering care in order to improve outcomes in India.
The conference was endorsed by the World Stroke Organisation and the Indian Stroke Association.
Both bodies have since published proceedings and key findings from the event, which attracted national and regional media coverage.
A further event is planned in Northern India in 2021.
The Knowledge Hub project is led by Professor Ulrike Zeshan OBE, Co-Director of the transdisciplinary Institute of Citizenship, Society and Change.
The project was based in rural Odisha, a state in East India, and explored creative re-combinations of local traditional knowledge and modern science and technology for the benefit of local communities.
Work on issues of soil enrichment and passive cooling contributed to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) #15 (on the sustainable management of ecosystems and prevention of land degradation).
It also contributed to SDG #7 (which seeks to “ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all.”)
An initial workshop on soil enrichment involving local farmers led to further co-developed activities, including an expedition to research organic farming practices in the state of Andhra Pradesh and the implementation of a local experiment involving chemical-free rice farming.
The Indian partner organisation Rural Lifeline Trust (RLT) was closely involved from the beginning when the project was being developed, and the SDG focus areas to work on arose from their input.
During the project, most of the details of implementation were decided by the RLT, including selection of workshop participants, plans for travel learning from Odisha to Andhra Pradesh, and selection of farm plots for experimentation.
The UCLan partner supported the project with co-creative workshop methodologies, and through introducing RLT members to Corporate Social Responsibility and academic contacts.
In the workshops, UCLan staff shared their expertise in co-creative participatory methods and enabled local participants to learn from these engaging methodologies.
Through local workshops and travel learning, a group of local farmers researched alternative agricultural practices, which re-combine traditional and modern knowledge.
In particular, a local experiment was set up to try out “Zero Budget Natural Farming”.
After focusing on the practice in the first experiment, the economic viability of the model is now being explored (the precondition for such a model to spread).
Through joint meetings with several prominent Corporate Social Responsibility teams in Mumbai and New Delhi, RLT was able to network with them and build the capacity to approach them for Corporate Social Responsibility funding in the future.
A research partnership was also established with UCLan and two other partners in Patna (a research institute) and in Bangalore (a think tank).
Crucial to the success of this study has been a realisation of the need to replace a deficit-based approach to ‘fixing problems’ with a strength-based approach of building on local resources and highlighting the value of traditional cultural practices.
The Indian partner RLT has established a ‘Think-Do-Learn Tank’ called AlterNEXT on their existing eco-village campus during the lifetime of this project.
The Knowledge Hub activities have been disseminated on the blogs of both AlterNEXT and the partnering research Institute at UCLan.
The next step is to apply jointly for UK Research Council funding, for which the partnership was established during the Knowledge Hub work.
In case of success, the research team will work on issues of local autonomy, food sovereignty, and ecology in relation to food practices.
A documentary film about RLT’s ‘Shikha Eco-Learning Village’ is also in production.
Diarrhoeal diseases are a common cause of illness and death amongst young people in developing countries.
Such diseases can be spread through the contamination of complementary foods – defined by the World Health Organisation as any food or liquid other than breast milk which is fed to babies and young children to provide them with nutrients.
This can include formula milk and food used to introduce solids into a baby’s diet.
Carol Wallace, Former Professor in Food Safety Management Systems led a study with families living in extreme poverty in remote rural areas of Pakistan.
The objective was to identify approaches that could significantly reduce the incidence of diarrhoeal diseases in infants.
The team explored how interventions in existing practices involving the preparation, handling, storage and feeding of complementary foods might reduce or eliminate the transmission of diseases.
A preliminary study concentrated on building local infrastructure and creating an environment in which future health improvement projects could succeed.
This entailed enhancing the capacity of the research team through recruiting expertise in food safety, microbiology and nutritional sciences, training Research Assistants, and engaging directly with the community and local families.
The initiative was co-designed by project leads in the UK and Pakistan, building on Professor Nicola Lowe’s existing partnership in nutritional sciences with Professor Mukhtiar Zaman of Rehman Medical College, and the Abaseen Foundation.
The work has identified clear and practical measures for families to adopt within their homes, that can directly contribute to protecting health amongst babies and young children in their communities.
It has also led to the creation of educational materials (including posters and infographics) carrying food safety messages, which can be employed in workshops with local women.
These workshops provide them with the knowledge and advice they need to implement practical improvements in food handling and hygiene within their own homes, benefiting themselves and their children.
There is much potential for future networking opportunities, bringing in key organisations such as other local university and industry partners alongside existing collaborators in the UK and Pakistan (including NGOs and Government representatives).
This opens up the potential for the outcomes of the study to impact wider policy.
The findings are set to inform a follow-up project which will test the impact of educating people on improved methods of food handling to reduce the incidence of diarrhoeal disease.
There are plans for further online collaboration, a peer review publication and presentations at forthcoming regional and national conferences.
Digital technology has the potential to make the art of filmmaking more accessible to independent creatives from diverse cultures.
However, in recent times the dominance of university and national film school models in Development Assistance Committee (DAC) countries has perpetuated filmmaking which has largely spoken to cultural elites in capital cities.
For some time there has been a need for grassroots skills training to enable a wider spectrum of society to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the technology-led democratisation of the moving image medium, particularly amongst young people.
This will lead to secure, meaningful and rewarding employment and business opportunities in this arena.
The StoryLab project has laid the groundwork for co-designing an impact-led training strategy and platform focused on one of the key currencies of a successful creative industry – creativity, story and creative entrepreneurship.
It has been led by Professor Erik Knudsen from the School of Journalism, Media and Performance at UCLan, in collaboration with Dr Nico Meissner (Griffith Film School, Australia; former Film School Director, Multimedia University, Malaysia); Dr Carolina Patiño (University of Ibagué, Colombia); and Francis Kwesi Gbormittah (leading academic at the School of Performing Arts, University of Ghana).
‘StoryLab - Developing Innovative Skills Training For Democratised Film Industries in Developing Countries’ involved five days of networking workshops and meetings held at UCLan.
It was designed to explore collaborations and build the foundations of a wider transdisciplinary network of international and UCLan researchers engaging with the StoryLab project, which is addressing global challenges in Colombia, Ghana and Malaysia.
It built on an earlier series of workshops held in Columbia, Ghana and Malaysia during 2017.
A total of 45 independent filmmakers engaged in an innovative story and narrative skills training initiative focused on underpinning the development of meaningful cultural contributions and employment opportunities within the growing film sectors in these countries.
These workshops enabled the participants to enhance their skills and approaches, leading to changes in ideas generation, different approaches to story structure, new co-development and production partnerships, enhanced screenwriting skills, better engagement with local cultural preservation, increased rigour in creative development practices, and deeper awareness of the narrative opportunities of film.
The StoryLab project has directly led to Dr Carolina Patiño creating a research centre entitled Audio-visual Memory Centre for the Peace of Tolima, which sits within the Urban Trail Research Cluster in the University of Ibagué, Colombia.
The StoryLab project has an extensive web site where findings and projects are discussed at length.
For full details visit storylabnetwork.com
Soo Downe, Professor of Midwifery, and Dr Anastasia Topalidou, Research Associate in Thermal Imaging, have worked with women’s groups in India to explore how a high-tech mobile monitoring system could benefit pregnant women.
The monitoring device can be used to monitor health status, while encouraging users to adopt a healthier lifestyle throughout their pregnancy.
The system has the potential to reduce the incidence and adverse effects of hypertension, based on theories of technology adoption and behavioural action.
Data from the system can be collected, enabling researchers to monitor health status at a population level.
A quarter of the world’s neonatal deaths and 15% of maternal deaths occur in India.
In India, more than three million babies are born preterm and/or low birth weight each year due to pregnancy-related preventable causes (including pre-eclampsia/hypertension) and/or maternal malnutrition.
In addition, around 51% of all women of reproductive age have anaemia.
Haemorrhage and hypertensive disease/eclampsia are the major factors of maternal deaths in India.
Access to antenatal care for pregnant women is often restricted by several factors, from lack of infrastructure to economic, socio-cultural and gender barriers.
It has been shown that engaging pregnant women in group participatory learning can have a positive impact on maternal and neonatal survival rates.
The project is a collaboration between UCLan, the Rinicare Ltd (UK business partner), the Fernandez Hospital ‘Health Care for Women & New-born’ - Hyderabad, and two Bangalore NGOs: the Bangalore Birth Network (BBN) and the Society for People’s Action and Development (SPAD).
A further midwifery project involving UCLan and Fernandez Hospital, sponsored by the Indian government, is currently underway.
The research team explored the feasibility, acceptability and effectiveness of an integrated low cost, technical and socio-cultural solution.
The “We-PPLuS” wireless system monitored pulse rate, temperature, blood pressure and heart rate.
It was tested with two pregnant women’s community groups in Bangalore - around 30 women and two Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs) – and 13 women attending hospital clinics in Hyderabad.
Women in all settings where the kit was tested were keen to use the technology and were fascinated to see the results on their mobile phones.
The most active engagement and discussion took place within the group settings.
Clinical analysis of collected biomarkers is ongoing.
The participants were also asked to complete an anonymous feedback questionnaire.
Many of them were appreciative of the monitoring system, which has the potential to detect problems at an early stage.
A number of potential benefits have been uncovered, including observations of a potential link between pulse rate and anaemia, which could provide the basis of a simple future screening tool in low income settings.
Associated research that will be undertaken with the same partners in 2020, using thermal imaging, could also enhance knowledge of mother-baby heat transfer in ‘kangaroo care’ – a method of caring for premature or underweight babies through skin-to-skin contact.
It could also inform early diagnosis of incipient sepsis in new-born babies.
It was found that the wearable technology worked well in facility settings.
But some design weaknesses were also uncovered, particularly when the devices were used by women in the hot, humid and dusty settings of the backstreets of Bangalore.
Further research will explore how the technology can be refined through conversations with Indian manufacturers and distributors.
There will also be wider testing with health workers and community groups across India.
The team will convene remotely in late 2019 to consider the next steps.
Findings are set to be presented at the 15th International Normal Birth Research Conference, to be hosted in Hyderabad by the Fernandez Hospital (research partners on this project) in 2020.
A follow-up project on community engagement and women’s groups, run by the BBN and SPAD NGOs, is currently taking place.
Dietary zinc deficiency is a global problem, affecting 17% of the world’s population, with the greatest burden in low and middle-income countries.
The consequences of this are profound and far-reaching, from increased individual morbidity and mortality to problems with community and regional economic development.
Nicola Lowe, Professor of Nutritional Sciences, led the project Biofortified Zinc Flour to Eliminate Deficiency in Pakistan (BIZIFED) which aimed to tackle the widespread issue of zinc deficiency among adolescent girls and children in Pakistan.
The project was supported with funding from the Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council (BBSRC) and the Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF).
The study was the first to explore the potential of biofortified wheat to reduce zinc deficiency in low resource settings in Pakistan.
More than 40% of women in the country are zinc deficient and over 20% have iron deficiency anaemia.
Biofortification involves boosting the nutritional content of food crops using conventional plant breeding techniques and the addition of nutrient-rich fertilisers.
The study assessed the impact of enhancing the zinc content of wheat flour (wheat is a staple crop in Pakistan) and whether this improved the lives of a sample of women of reproductive age.
The research also investigated the performance of biofortified wheat under different growing conditions and the cultural acceptability of biofortification in Pakistan.
An increasing body of evidence suggests that it may be a cost-effective and sustainable approach to reducing micronutrient deficiencies.
Key developments in 2019 included field experiments to determine the impact of wheat fertilisers on the yield, grain zinc concentration and potential health benefits of a new wheat variety, Zincol-2016, bred for high grain zinc concentration.
An end of project meeting was held in Islamabad in 2019, providing opportunities to plan dissemination activities and reflect on the research process and stakeholder engagement (including a visit to the Special Assistant to the PM).
Other key work has included a spatial modelling study to integrate soil and crop data, enabling prediction and mapping of variation in wheat grain zinc concentration due to soil properties, farmer management and wheat variety.
Other work looked at the socio-cultural factors and market systems that affect the sustainable uptake of biofortified wheat in Pakistan.
This interdisciplinary and collaborative project depended on building strong relationships with several research partners in Pakistan: Khyber Medical University, Abaseen Foundation (NGO/charity) and Fauji Fertilizer Company.
Local communities were involved in the co-development of research, and regular meetings were held with community elders.
Findings have already been published in one peer-reviewed journal paper (UNSCN Nutrition 44) and presented at an interdisciplinary academic conference (ANH Academy 2019).
Teachers working in rural and remote areas across Western Africa, or those displaced by conflict and crisis, are often under-resourced and undervalued.
A collaborative project entitled ASPIRE (or Teacher Resilience and Capabilities Network in Sub-Saharan Africa), building on the work of the University of Manchester ( British Council ELTRA project, 2018 ) and the Cote d’Ivoire National English Language Teaching Association (CINELTA), utilised digital technologies to deliver innovative new development opportunities in the form of a multi-country conference.
It was led by Dr Michael Thomas, Professor of Higher Education and Online Learning, and Dr Silvia Benini, a Research Assistant.
Our key contact in Cote d’Ivoire was Aubain Adi from the Institut Pédagogique National de l’Enseignement Technique et Professionnel (IPNETP).
The original Manchester and CINELTA project explored the use of widely available mobile phones with readily accessible social media software (WhatsApp) to engage in a variety of development activities with teachers who work in difficult circumstances, building capabilities and resilience amongst the countries’ teachers.
It specifically sought to address the United Nations Sustainable Development Goal #4, target C, which aims to “Substantially increase the number of youth and adults who have relevant skills, including technical and vocational skills, for employment, decent jobs and entrepreneurship” by 2030.
Core activity was focused within the Ivory Coast, but the in-country event, which was one of the targets of ASPIRE, also included representatives from Benin, Cameroon, Mali, Rwanda and Senegal.
The activities involved working collaboratively with CINELTA; the Ministry of Education in the Ivory Coast; The Ecole Normale Superieure (a local teacher training college); and the British Council.
ASPIRE enabled cross-collaboration between teacher trainers and a variety of teachers and curriculum specialists to start a dialogue about developing a new teacher training curriculum and new ways of supporting those developments.
All activities and the research methodology were co-designed with in-country participants, enabling them to have ownership and a direct role in shaping the project.
ASPIRE explored different ways that digital technology and social media can be used to support the training and development of English language teachers in the Ivory Coast, and a virtual conference was used to disseminate the findings to other Official Development Assistance (ODA) recipient countries in West Africa and beyond, including a variety of stakeholders, from curriculum developers to policymakers.
The funding enabled a number of significant events to take place.
A multi-country virtual event brought together six English language teaching associations to discuss their experiences of beginning to make use of low-cost digital technologies to support teacher development.
The teacher associations nominated key stakeholders in the English language teaching community and they gathered in a central in-country location, but were connected via online digital tools (Zoom and WhatsApp).
This event included presentations from all of the teacher associations about their current practice with digital technologies in teacher development and key external speakers from the UK (University of Manchester – Gary Motteram and Susan Dawson and the Global Issues Special Interest Group of IATEFL – Linda Ruas) and India (The British Council – Radhika Gholker).
A UK-based conference and capacity-building event including over 80 participants was held in Preston.
The event was video streamed to collaborating teachers in the Ivory Coast.
Several pieces of work are currently underway as a result.
A journal article on the outcomes of the Ivory Coast event, and a special edition of a peer reviewed journal arising from the research focus of the ASPIRE project, are in progress.
The team are working towards building a network of interested researchers, teachers, administrators and policymakers from the ODA participants, as well as collaborating with partners on follow-up projects and funding for replication studies in Ghana with the University of Ghana.
Recently the research team successfully applied for a British Council ELTRA Award to collaborate with teachers in Nigeria on a related study on teacher development.
The team are also exploring replicating and extending the research involved in ASPIRE into a larger Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF) grant application in 2020.
A research team led by Darren Ansell, Professor of Aerospace Engineering in the School of Engineering and Computing, is helping Cambodians to utilise the latest technology to clear deadly landmines.
Through several workshops, they examined the high-risk activities currently performed by Cambodians engaged in landmine clearance operations.
Their expertise in aerial and ground robotics was used to draft technology concepts that could help to take humans out of harm’s way and reduce the threat to human life involved in perilous mine clearance operations.
The work supports Cambodia’s National Mine Action Strategy, which is working towards making the country free from landmines by 2025.
This target is no small feat.
The Cambodian Mine Action Centre (CMAC) estimates that there could be as many as four to six million mines and other pieces of unexploded ordinance lurking underground throughout the country following decades of war.
The most common method of mine detection is still manual detection and disarmament, which is often slow, expensive and highly dangerous.
The project has led to a partnership with the Cambodian National Mine Action and Victim Assistance Authority (CMAA).
They will collaborate with UCLan researchers for an initial three-year period to develop and trial new technologies for mine clearance operations.
A further collaboration with the National Centre for Peacekeeping Forces Management, Mines and Explosive Remnants of War Clearance (NPMEC) team from the Royal Cambodian Armed Forces (RCAF) has seen UCLan researchers delivering technical briefings and training sessions on the use of drone technology.
The deployment of robotic technologies such as drones could rapidly increase the pace of landmine clearance while drastically reducing the loss of life incurred in what has traditionally been an immensely dangerous, life-threatening undertaking.
Using drones, the RCAF will be able to map out terrain that could potentially contain mines and identify suspicious items or roadside devices without putting lives at risk by having to physically enter those spaces.
There are clear economic benefits to Cambodia if it can increase the effectiveness of its mine clearance efforts, not least the end to loss of human life.
Clearing areas of landmines opens up the land for communities to farm and build new homes, improving their quality of life.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/research/institutes/amis:
Our Research and Knowledge Exchange Institute unites Area and Migration studies to develop a research-intensive environment and culture.
We aim to produce world-leading outputs to impact societies, economies, cultures, and governments.
Our academics conduct world-leading research on Area studies and/or Migration studies.
We work collaboratively across different universities, schools, and disciplines, as well as different regions of the world.
We're an established leading institution in research, innovation and knowledge exchange.
Our ambition is to create prosperity and opportunity in the communities it serves.
Our institute draws together three important pillars as the basis of its activities: Teaching, Research and Innovation.
These key pillars help enable and promote:
The institute's diverse global community and interdisciplinary approach to teaching, research, and innovation ensure quality outputs.
This setup enables us to advance world-leading research in the following ways:
Parts of our research contribute to the following UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs):

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/research/institutes/behaviour-sport-rehab:
Our Research and Knowledge Exchange Institute helps improve and enhance the behaviour, health and wellbeing of humans and animals.
We impact change through social engagement and advanced interventions affecting clinical outcomes.
The institute addresses challenges and unites the efforts of researchers and research teams to:
We work with local, national and international key stakeholders.
By applying research techniques, the Institute provides the best opportunity to develop new ways of working.
Our solutions aim to help change people’s lives and wider society.
We have many close working relationships with global academic institutions, industry bodies, and private, public and third sector organisations.
Our connections support significant knowledge exchange and innovation and long-term sustainability.
In addition to our high quality outputs, the impact of our research can be found through the development of new ways of working and solutions to society’s challenges.
These include:
With the development of further impact well underway including:
Part of this research contributes to the following UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs):
Sports Recovery Research

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/research/institutes/best:
Our Research and Knowledge Exchange Institute offers a hub within the University and the wider Lancashire health economy and beyond.
We foster researchers and collaborative research output from the bench to our patients and users.
Our focus is to enhance excellence in the health sciences through high-quality and impact research.
We aim to be recognised nationally and internationally for our research in:
We aim to support areas of research excellence that:
Institute missions:
Discover the Neuro-oncology Research Group

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/research/institutes/beoi:
Our Research and Knowledge Exchange institute prioritises a ‘grow your own’ development strategy.
Our aim is to inspire and empower people to flourish in enterprise through high quality impactful research.
We aim to build a reputation and profile that places our institute at the heart of the business and civic community.
Our research underpins our teaching from undergraduate to postgraduate, degree apprenticeships, CPD and SME enterprise development.
Our intention is to deliver impactful research and knowledge exchange, creating socio-economic benefit regionally, nationally, and internationally.
Our institute builds upon existing partnerships with colleagues at our Cyprus, Westlakes and Burnley campuses.
We will continue to prioritise multi-disciplinary research, as evidenced by our successful REF2021 submission, where our work was judged as being either internationally excellent or world-leading, and an overall ranking GPA of 16 th out of 108 business and management submissions.
The formation of the single institute will streamline the engagement of a wider range of research and knowledge exchange activity taking place across the University, where business and/or socio-economic input is beneficial.
Joining our institute means being part of a vibrant international community of staff with proven record of publications and income generation.
Members have a commitment to inspire and empower colleagues to flourish through impactful research, teaching and knowledge exchange.
Local economic development
Enhancing business performance in Lancashire
Work and Performance

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/research/institutes/iccc:
The Research and Knowledge Exchange Institute of Creativity, Communities and Culture explores the power of creativity and culture to make positive change in the world.
We tell stories of the past, present and future through research with local and global communities.
We deliver real-world research and innovation by placing an emphasis on the role of culture and creativity in society.
In times of environmental crises, amidst growing cultural tensions and precarious global politics, the need for the arts and humanities to foster dialogue and facilitate shared experience is fundamental and urgent.
As an expansive and interdisciplinary community, we place creativity and culture at the centre of our research.
We work closely with industry, public and third-sector partners to enhance current and historical understandings of thought, culture and heritage.
Our work inspires ‘new ways of looking’, delivering projects which mobilise the creative potential of communities to shape their places and lives.
We provide a robust and supportive framework in all aspects of arts, humanities and creative practice research for postgraduate researchers through to professors.
We facilitate collaborations with other institutes to develop world-leading research that encourages self-expression and provides opportunities for creative exchange across social, cultural and generational boundaries.
Our use of cutting-edge visual, textual, acoustic and embodied methods advances the role of culture as a strategic natural resource, with the power to shape understandings of the world in profound and transformative ways.
Through knowledge exchange partnerships and co-designed research, we work with local and international partners to create healthy, environmentally sustainable and culturally vibrant communities, which stimulate positive global change.
We welcome collaboration from across the university and beyond.
To find out more about the institute, or to tell us about your own research, please contact us by email.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/research/institutes/iclsj:
Our Research and Knowledge Exchange Institute delivers world-leading research.
We engage with issues at the forefront of criminal, legal and social justice debates internationally.
The Institute of Criminal, Legal and Social Justice brings academics, practitioners, researchers, and students together from a range of disciplines.
Our aim is to address key issues relating to social justice, fairness and human rights.
We deliver world-leading innovative research.
Our research engages with issues at the forefront of criminal, legal and social justice debates.
We work collaboratively with external partners nationally and across the globe, generating new knowledge and inspiring positive change with them, rather than on them.
Achieving real world impact and improving the lives of the communities we engage with is central to our approach to research.
Our aim is to undertake work relevant to regional, national, and international societal needs, with priorities in the field of criminal, legal and social justice.
We regularly host conferences and workshops exploring topics of relevance to many outside organisations, including the police, probation, voluntary sector, the Police and Crime Commissioner, and many other organisations.
Our institute is built on the successes of several research centres to ensure contributions from different perspectives are achieved.
Our vision is to become a leading centre of excellence in impactful local, national and international research.
We aim to:
Address real world issues.
Our vision is to undertake research that has a positive impact on the criminal justice system, the legal system and social justice.
We will expand co-production with external partnerships, drive innovation in criminal, legal and social justice, and increase dissemination activities.
Maximise innovative methods with local engagement.
The university is rooted in the civic engagement with the communities of Preston, Lancashire, and the Northwest region.
Working with these communities is vital to understanding local issues, allowing us to help improve the lives of local people.
We aim to be a hub of innovative research, removing the boundaries between the academic and the ‘real-world’.
Capitalise on our international collaborations.
Our members collaborate on a global scale with international research partners.
We're driven to secure funding for international research opportunities, collaborations and demonstrate impact.
Driving the Innovation agenda in criminal and social justice, fairness and human rights.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/research/institutes/ineti:
Our institute empowers research and knowledge exchange in engineering and technology.
Our research and knowledge exchange supports the development and delivery of strategic goals in technological innovation and sustainability.
Our research also supports regional growth through work of civic and societal benefit.
Centres in the Institute focus on addressing goals in a range of strategic technological areas:

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/research/institutes/fdti:
Our Research and Knowledge Exchange Institute is a focal point within the region and the University for digital innovation with a focus on the human in a digital society.
Our institute has three main aims:
To communicate the possibilities of digital technology.
We carry out public engagement work, outreach work, and educational work with a series of installations in public spaces.
We also deliver activities for schools and related institutions, with webinars and seminars for academic audiences.
To create physical and online spaces that enable multidisciplinary and interdisciplinary collaborations.
We focus on digital technologies and solutions, using the Imaginarium lab as a focal point for innovation and inspiration.
To innovate with new digital technologies, new methods for creating technology solutions, and new technology solutions.
We aim to improve the overall wellbeing of humans through improved safety, greater access to the arts and humanities, and healthier lifestyles.
Our institute innovates through technologies such as IoT, robotics, AI, big data, mixed-reality.
Our primary focus is using these technologies to address impactful societal issues that contribute to the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
The Institute will collaborate with and support researchers across the university, with advice and facilitation to better understand how, and in what ways, digital innovation can be applied effectively.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/research/institutes/jhi:
Our research and knowledge exchange institute carries out teaching and research in areas of Mathematics, Physics and Astronomy.
Our institute is based in Preston as part of the University of Central Lancashire.
The Institute contains about 30 teaching and research staff.
The institute established in 1927 as the Jeremiah Horrocks Observatory (JHO) on Moor Park.
In 1993 it became the Centre for Astrophysics.
Renamed in 2004 as the Jeremiah Horrocks Institute (JHI) for Astrophysics and Super-Computing.
Our institute grew in 2012 to become the Jeremiah Horrocks Institute for Mathematics, Physics and Astronomy.
We carry out teaching in all of these areas.
We pursue research into:
Opportunities for undergraduate and postgraduate study (PhD and MSc by Research) are available, take a look at our astronomy courses .
Opportunities for undergraduate and postgraduate study (PhD and MSc by Research) are available.
Take a look at our astronomy courses.
This installation is a huge 1:200,000,000 scale representation of our closest star.
The Alston Observatory is the teaching and public outreach facility of the Jeremiah Horrocks Institute.
Using dance to engage KS2 pupils in the Earth and Space topic.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/research/institutes/life:
Our Research and Knowledge Exchange Institute supports the development of globally relevant applied health and wellbeing research and knowledge exchange activities across the University.
Our institute aims to foster:
The institute was established in 2018 and is aligned to the University’s Strategy for 2021-2028, and the sub-strategy for Real World Research and Innovation.
Membership of the Institute is flexible to meet our set objectives and is open to all our University’s School and Applied Health Research Hub staff members.
Our ethos is to promote inclusivity rather than exclusivity, whilst ensuring academic excellence, active engagement, and delivery.
People considered as full members of the institute are those who have chosen us as their home institute.
These members can also include those who contribute substantially to the activities of the Institute, such as:
Some of the opportunities we offer are only open to full members, such as placements for our University’s Undergraduate Research Internship Programme (UURIP) interns.
Associate members are those who have chosen to receive information about the opportunities and activities offered by LIFE, and may contribute to the Institute to a lesser extent.
We have additional contributors to the Institute who receive information about the opportunities and activities, or who we can call on, on an ad hoc basis for specific advice and expertise.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/research/institutes/imis:
Our research and knowledge exchange institute brings together researchers in archaeology, fire,  forensics and smart materials to address global and national challenges posed by Fire-related Disasters, Disease Management, Climate Change, Migration History, and Cadaver Identification and Recovery.
We're a multidisciplinary institute engaged at the leading-edge of research addressing complex and transdisciplinary challenges that involve scientific application.
Researchers publish their work in journals such as Science, Nature, Scientific Reports and Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.
Our research community is supported by three Research Centres:
The Institute carries out teaching and research in Archaeology, Chemistry, Materials Science, Forensics and Fire with researchers contributing to teaching in a number of Schools.
The Institute comprises of over 30 academic staff, and members include research fellows and PhD students.
Our members are internationally recognised, generating institutional visibility and reputation.
The aim is to generate high impact research publications and global impact by fostering a collaborative, high energy research community.
Members of this institute have successfully carried out research and knowledge exchange projects with researchers at the:
Research highlights include helping firefighters protect themselves and others from harmful and cancer-causing contaminants encountered during their service.
Work has included an important contribution to the Grenfell Tower Inquiry.
Smart materials to facilitate protein crystallization are being manufactured at UCLan and marketed by Industry.
Members of the Institute work with Californian tribal communities to increase their knowledge of their own past.
They use innovative virtual reality (VR) immersive platforms.
Members of the Institute undertake consultancy work involving human identification and PMI work, especially in complex contexts like such as mass graves and natural disasters for national police forces, Kenyon International Emergency Services, National Crime Agency and the Home Office on forensic cases.
Researchers are actively working on investigating periods of population movement and migration in the past prehistoric and early historic periods as well as the public understanding of those events.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/research/institutes/pact:
Our Research and Knowledge Exchange Institute conducts transdisciplinary research to address major challenges of the 21st century.
Through research, innovation and enterprise, we aim to have an impact on planetary resilience and community transformation.
Our institute commits to the values of equity, fairness, justice, democracy and compassion.
We facilitate partnership working, participatory methods, co-production, creativity and innovation.
Our remit includes but is not limited to:

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/research/institutes/interrelate:
Our Research and Knowledge Exchange Institute undertakes research on infancy, childhood, youth, women, parents, family wellbeing and reproductive health.
INTERRELATE brings together researchers from three well-established research centres:
These centres have an outstanding track record of undertaking substantial impactful research projects on relationships and their impact.
We draw disciplines together to ask new questions about physical, psychological, emotional and social well-being.
We aim to co-create novel solutions, in active collaboration with individuals, communities, services and policymakers.
A rights-based perspective is fundamental to the vision of the team, placing importance on advocating for and with individuals who are often unheard.
We draw on a range of theories, including intergenerational, gender, critical and relational perspectives.
Our methods range from lab-based studies and biomechanics to social sciences and participatory action research with communities.
We want to improve the lives of women, children, young people, parents, and families.
Our aim is to:

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/business/support-for-smes:
Small and Medium Sized Enterprises (SMEs) are vital in providing local employment and generating local wealth.
We are dedicated to supporting this vital sector of the economy.
Our entrepreneurial approach has enabled us to become a national leader, helping more than 1,000 students and graduates start a business or become self-employed in the last five years.
More than 1,500 regional commercial organisations have been assisted through business support projects, with 950 reporting business improvements and more than 400 jobs created or safeguarded.
Our award-winning Centre for SME and Enterprise Development provides a focal point where you can connect, collaborate, network and learn so that whatever challenges you face you can benefit from excellent tailored business advice, support and knowledge.
This programme is a reimagined package of support that extends our knowledge transfer expertise into companies of all sizes and sectors.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/research/ethics:
We are committed to the highest possible ethics standards.
All projects conducted by University staff or students that involve human participants, personal data, human tissue, or animals need ethical consideration.
Research should be undertaken in ways that safeguard the dignity, rights, health, safety and privacy of those involved.
To support our University staff and students, we have established a thorough ethical review procedure.
The information on this page aims to guide researchers through the ethical review process.
All staff and postgraduate research students conducting research on behalf of the University should complete an ethics checklist to ascertain whether ethical approval is necessary for their research.
All postgraduate research degree student registration proposals, irrespective of the outcome of the ethics checklist, need to be submitted to a relevant research ethics review panel to be dealt with either by chair’s action or full review.
Undergraduate and taught postgraduate students are not subject to the University central ethics review process but should seek review at school level.
For details of ethical review of undergraduate and taught postgraduate research projects, please contact your school, course or module leader for further information.
If a University ethics review is required an ethics application form should be completed electronically and emailed to the Research Ethics Team .
You should also email us any supporting information, research tools (e.g.
questionnaires).
Also where appropriate you should complete a GDPR checklist and any relevant health and safety forms.
If appropriate, your project can be submitted for ethical approval in phases, with approval granted for each specific phase or stage.
At UCLan, the University Committee for Ethics and Integrity is the formal body responsible for developing and implementing ethical policy and procedures which is then administered by the Ethics, Integrity and Governance Unit.
In addition, UCLan has three ethics review panels
The ethics review panels are made up of staff members of the relevant disciplines across the University.
Applications are reviewed by one of the research ethics panels, operated primarily using an online process.
Applications are submitted and reviewed electronically to allow for quicker responses.
Depending on the type of project the review will be either:
The ethics review panels can make five kinds of decisions on an application:
The time taken for a decision to be made on your application will be depended on the complexity of your application.
It will also depend on, where applicable, the time you take to respond to queries, recommendations and conditions raised by the ethics review panel.
For full review, we aim to provide applicants with a review outcome in two weeks, though the time taken to gain approval can sometimes take much longer.
We recommend that you apply for ethical approval several months before you plan to start data collection.
Please note work on your project cannot begin until your ethics application has been approved.
This includes data collection, recruitment or contact with participants, including any pilot research.
The University of Central Lancashire is seeking individuals interested in joining one of the University’s research ethics panels or committees as lay members.
We are looking for people interested in research to offer their expertise to help ensure our research practices meet recognised best practice and ethical standards.
Panel or committee members are responsible for ensuring that University research projects are carried out in accordance with the ethical principles set by the University ethics policy and other relevant ethical guidelines.
Our research ethics panels and committees are responsible for overseeing and monitoring ethical issues associated with research activities, such as:
The University’s ethical review process exists to ensure our research activities fulfil legal obligations and meet high ethical and safety standards.
Lay members fulfil an important role and have the task of providing the public perspective in the research review process.
As a lay member you will review projects remotely and be asked to attend meetings.
Training will be provided.
We are interested in identifying suitably qualified members from a wide variety of backgrounds.
The University is seeking lay members in the following areas:
Informal enquires relating of the roles above, please email Emma Neil, Head of Ethics, Integrity and Governance Unit .
Formal expressions of interest should be emailed to the Ethics, Integrity and Governance Unit , along with a CV and a brief personal statement.
Expressions of interest should be submitted by 5pm on 28 March 2024.
As your research progresses, you may want to make changes to how you wish to conduct your research.
You should seek the opinion of the relevant ethics review panel when you are making amendments to an on-going project previously granted approval, including changes to the study end date listed on your ethics application.
To make an amendment please email email the Research Ethics Team with justification and rational for the amendment and any updated documents with the changes highlighted.
At the end of the project, a closure report is required to be submitted to complete the ethics governance procedures.
Existing paperwork can be used for this purpose e.g.
funder’s end of grant report, abstract for student award or HRA/REC final report.
If none of these are available please use the ethics closure report pro-forma.
External researchers who wish to recruit UCLan staff and/or students as participants are required to seek permission from the Ethics, Integrity and Governance Unit.
To gain permission the external researcher will be required to email the Research Ethics Team with the following information:
The project will be ratified by one of UCLan's central ethics review panels by chair's action.
This can take up to 5 working days.
The chair will then determine whether the other institution has reviewed and approved the application to an equivalent ethical standards as UCLan.
Please note the process of UCLan providing permission does not constitute ethical approval, and UCLan will not undertake separate ethical review of the project.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/jobs/browse:
To see how we use your personal information when you apply for a job at UCLan, see our privacy notice for job applicants

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/jobs/helpful-hints-for-applicants:
Applying for a job at the University of Central Lancashire?
Here you'll find everything you need to know about our recruitment procedures.
Our application form is used both for shortlisting and for reference during the interview process.
Details supplied in the Equal Opportunities Monitoring section are kept confidential.
All sensitive information is held by the People Team and is not seen or used by the shortlisting panel.
The information is used for monitoring purposes only and forms no part of the selection process.
When completing the application form, please remember to:
If you have difficulties please contact the People Team at PeopleTeam@uclan.ac.uk or on 01772 892324.
By completing your application you are confirming that the information given is correct.
If you provide false information or deliberately omit any relevant details you will not be included in the selection process.
You will receive an email confirming receipt of your application.
If you are not shortlisted, you will receive an email confirming this.
Applicants put forward for the selection process will be advised by email or phone.
Shortlisting is carried out by members of the interview panel.
Shortlisting is based on an assessment of the information you have provided in your application, against criteria defined on the person specification.
UCLan graduates
If you are a UCLan graduate and you are not shortlisted, further advice and guidance can be provided by our Careers Team.
What happens if I get shortlisted?
If shortlisted, you'll be contacted for the selection process.
You'll also get notified of any additional methods such as tests or presentations.
Disability declaration
If you declare a disability, indicate that you wish to exercise your right under the Disability Confident scheme, and you meet the essential requirements of the post, you are guaranteed to be shortlisted.
If you provide any details of your disability, these will not be shared with the shortlisting panel or recruiting manager.
Armed forces declaration
If you declare that you are a member of the armed forces community and meet the essential requirements of the post, you are guaranteed to be shortlisted.
We'll ask you to provide details of a minimum of two persons who will act as referees.
These references will be in support of your application.
Where possible, one of these references should be from your last employer.
As part of our Equal Opportunities Policy, all interview panels will normally consist of at least three people.
Panels will include both men and women.
If you attend a selection process, the chair of the panel will agree with both successful and unsuccessful candidates.
The timeframe and method for feedback will be provided by the chair.
The successful candidate will have the decision confirmed in writing as an offer of employment.
Unsuccessful candidates will have the opportunity for feedback from the Chair of the interview panel on request.
All offers of appointment are conditional upon receipt of:
Following a review of the UK's immigration scheme in 2020, a points-based system for immigration was introduced.
Replacing the Tier 2 visa route, this is now called the Skilled Worker visa.
An employer may request a criminal record check as part of their recruitment process.
These checks are processed by the Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS).
For certain roles, the check will also include information held on the DBS children’s and adults’ barred lists, alongside any information held by local police forces, that is considered to be relevant to the applied-for post.
These checks are to assist employers in making safer recruitment and licensing decisions, however a check is just one part of recruitment practice.
When a check has been processed by the DBS and completed, the applicant will receive a DBS certificate.
Access to the DBS checking service is only available to registered employers who are entitled by law to ask an individual to reveal their full criminal history, including spent convictions - this excludes protected cautions and convictions that will be filtered from a criminal record check - also known as asking ‘an exempted question’.
An exempted question applies when the individual will be working in specific occupations, for certain licenses and specified positions.
These are covered by the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974 (Exceptions) Order 1975.
More information about who is eligible for a criminal record check, can be found in the DBS eligibility guidance .
The code of practice
The code of practice is issued under section 122(2) of the Police Act 1997.
Organisations using the DBS checking service must comply with the code of practice.
It is there to ensure that organisations are aware of their obligations, and that the information released will be used fairly.
The code also ensures that sensitive and personal information, disclosed by the DBS, is handled and stored appropriately and is kept for only as long as is necessary.
The code of practice for registered persons and other recipients of DBS check information can be found on gov.uk.
DBS checks for transgender people
DBS offers a confidential checking process for transgender applicants.
This process is for transgender applicants who do not wish to reveal details of their previous identity to the person who asked them to complete an application form for a DBS check.
For more information about this process, email: sensitive@dbs.gov.uk or see the DBS Transgender Applications guidance .
Applicants' rights
Usually, a job applicant has no legal obligation to reveal spent convictions.
If an applicant has a conviction that has become spent, the employer must treat the applicant as if the conviction has not happened.
A refusal to employ a rehabilitated person on the grounds of a spent conviction is unlawful under the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act (ROA) 1974.
Certain areas of employment are exempt under the ROA 1974 (Exceptions) Order 1975, and employers may ask about spent convictions - this is known as asking an exempted question.
When answering, the applicant would have a legal obligation to reveal spent convictions.
The code of practice states that information on a DBS certificate should only be used in the context of a policy on the recruitment of ex-offenders.
This is designed to protect applicants from unfair discrimination, based on non-relevant past convictions.
For further information about disclosing criminal convictions please see the government guidance about telling an employer, university or college about your criminal record .

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/jobs/life-at-the-university:
We strive to ensure that all employees feel valued and important members of the wider University community.
Our employees play a crucial role in allowing the University to fulfil its goals.
Our Staff Spotlight champions the stories of our employees here at UCLan.
From world-leading academic research excellence to breaking down barriers in access to Higher Education.
They define the things that are most important to us and nurture a sense of shared purpose.
They reflect our ambitious nature, inspire us to constantly improve and to enrich the lives of our students, our colleagues and the communities we serve.
When you work at UCLan you can enjoy a number of excellent rewards and benefits.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/jobs/benefits:
Whilst working at the University, you'll have access to excellent rewards and benefits.
You'll also have support to ensure you progress and develop in your role.
We operate a flexible working hours scheme for most support roles, as well as generous annual leave.
A lot of our roles also offer hybrid working, with a mixture of on-campus and at home days.
We understand the importance of a healthy work-life balance, which is why we have a generous annual leave allowance.
Our academic colleagues get 35 days annual leave plus bank holidays and four additional discretionary days off over the Christmas period.
For all other staff the annual leave entitlement is 30 working days with 4 additional discretionary days off over the Christmas period.
You'll have access to our high quality, Ofsted regulated Pre-school and nursery to help with childcare.
The Pre-school Centre at the University of Central Lancashire is a high quality, nurturing, professionally run nursery.
The Pre-school welcomes children aged from six months to four years and can accommodate up to 90 children.
You will have access to a range of support and resources to support your mental health and wellbeing, from trained counsellors to a faith and spirituality centre .
We have supported the creation of five equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) networks which all colleagues are welcome to join.
At present these are the International Staff Network, LGBT+ Staff Network, Racial Equality Network, Staff Disability Network, and Women’s Network.
We offer all colleagues a generously discounted membership of our sports facilities.
For £15 a month you’ll have access to our Sir Tom Finney Sports Centre at our Preston Campus.
Membership includes access to the gym, classes and fitness instruction.
You'll be eligible to join an occupational pension scheme; for Professional Services colleagues this is offered by Royal London ; for Academic colleagues, this is offered by the Teachers' Pension Scheme .
We offer a range of travel discounts to colleagues to reduce your travel costs.
We also work in conjunction with CycleScheme.
We're also partnered with Tusker.
Tusker is an environmentally friendly car-leasing scheme which will enable you to drive a 100% electric car for one monthly payment.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/jobs/international-colleagues:
The University of Central Lancashire welcomes colleagues from all over the world.
Take a look at our guide to living in the UK.
If you are moving to the UK for the first time to work, you will need to obtain a visa.
This must be suitable for the role that you have been offered.
You can visit the government website to explore your options.
Once you have decided which type of visa you will be applying for, email the People Team .
The university holds a sponsor licence which allows us to provide sponsorship under the Skilled Worker Visa route.
Consider whether the Global Talent Visa is an option for you.
If you have a family who will be moving to the UK with you, they will also need a visa.
It may be possible to apply for a Family/Dependent Visa.
You can find out more about this on the government's Family Visas page .
We are unable to provide advice on the visa application process.
This is because you must be a registered immigration advisor to provide advice.
UK Visas and Immigration is a department within the Home Office responsible for granting visas.
You can find out how to contact UK Visas and Immigration on the government website .
You can also find a registered immigration advisor .
Finding a place to stay can be challenging when you're still living abroad.
Many new colleagues choose to book temporary accommodation to begin with.
Then you can take the time to find the perfect home once you're here.
You could choose to buy or rent accommodation.
Renting is a good option if you are only living in the UK for a short time, or if you're saving up to buy your own home.
You will typically need to pay a deposit.
You will also receive a tenancy agreement, a legal document that safeguards both you and the landlord.
Most people get a mortgage through a bank to buy a property.
There are numerous mortgage options and things to consider when buying a property.
If you want to buy a property, it's advisable to consult an independent financial advisor or estate agents for guidance.
You’ll need a UK bank or building society account to receive your wage.
Most banks offer a wide range of financial services, but interest rates, fees and processing times can vary.
You can visit a local branch and speak to an advisor to find out more about their services.
You can also review and compare bank accounts on the Money Saving Expert website .
Our campus operates on a card-only basis and does not accept cash.
You’ll need a bank card to make purchases on campus.
Once you've chosen a bank or building society, you will need to visit your local branch to open your account.
You'll need to take:
Please check with your chosen bank/building society if anything else is required.
At the bank, you’ll need to fill in an application form and make an initial deposit.
Any cards and chequebooks will be sent to you by post.
If you are living and working in the UK, you will be required to pay National Insurance and income tax after a certain threshold.
The University will also enrol you in a pension.
To work in the UK, you must have a National Insurance (NI) number.
If your NI number is not issued with your visa, you can apply on the government website .
Your NI number is exclusive to you and remains the same throughout your life.
If your earnings exceed a specific threshold and you are below the state pension age, you will need to make National Insurance contributions.
This is mandatory and is automatically taken from your wages.
Income tax is paid on earnings, pensions and benefits.
It is only paid on income over your tax-free allowance.
Any income you receive above this amount is taxable.
The rate of tax you will pay varies depending on your income.
You can find out more about income tax on the government website .
The University of Central Lancashire has a number of pension schemes.
You will automatically be enrolled on the appropriate scheme and a proportion of your wages will be paid into the scheme.
To find out more, you can visit our benefits of working at UCLan page or email the People Team .
Free health treatment is available on the UK’s National Health Service (NHS) to anyone working in the UK for more than six months.
It is also available to citizens from the EU and countries with reciprocal health agreements.
There are lots of different ways to access healthcare in the UK.
Here are the main ways:
If you are working in the UK for six months or more, you must register with a local doctor (known as a general practitioner or GP).
We recommend that you register with a GP as soon as possible.
You can find a GP on the NHS website .
If you will be here for less than 6 months, it is advisable to take out medical insurance, unless you're from an EU country or a country with a reciprocal health agreement.
There are many pharmacies who are open late.
They can provide help and advice for common illnesses, such as sore throats or earache.
You can find out more about pharmacies on the NHS website .
The University has an Eye Health Clinic , which offers a range of services.
There are also other opticians in surrounding areas.
We recommend that you register with a dentist.
You can find out more about registering with a dentist on the NHS website .
NHS 111 is a non-emergency medical care service that provides guidance and advice in England.
111 helps you get quick advice and the treatment you need.
It helps with symptoms, injuries, health concerns and existing medical conditions.
You should call 999 if you need emergency medical care.
If you are bringing your family or children with you, here's everything you need to know about childcare and education.
Childcare for children under four years old is not free, so you will need to consider the cost and availability.
Some nurseries accept children as young as three months old, but this can differ between nurseries.
The University has a Pre-School Centre at Preston campus.
In the UK, children start school in the September following their fourth birthday.
They can leave school at 16 years old, but must stay in education until they are 18.
This could include full-time education, an apprenticeship, or part-time education while working part-time.
If you will be working in the UK for 12 months or more, your child is legally required to attend school.
The Local Education Authority will provide a free school place near to where you live.
There are also private schools in the surrounding areas where you'll be required to pay fees.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/staff-spotlight/jackie-day-garner:
Jackie Day-Garner – Associate Dean School of Health, Social Work and Sport.
I have worked for the University 22 years in various roles and now I’m an Associate Dean in the School of Health, Social Work and Sport.
Throughout my career I have been fully supported by colleagues and managers as an openly gay woman.
This was enhanced when my wife and I decided to have a family.
We were supported by the People Team discussing how shared parental leave worked and the benefits to which we were entitled.
I was fully supported by the University through the six months I had off and stayed connected with colleagues to make my transition easier when coming back to work, especially at that time in a new role and post-Covid.
UCLan has an amazing Pre-school centre on campus which all three of my children attended.
This was so reassuring, knowing that they were near when working on campus.
In my present role I appreciate the flexibility I have juggling a full-time job and being a parent and UCLan has supportive processes to facilitate this.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/staff-spotlight/emad-abdelhamed:
Emad Abdelhamed is a Lecturer in Professional Development & International Student Support at the University of Central Lancashire.
Egyptian-born Emad came to the UK as an international student to study a master’s degree.
After completing his degree, he started applying for jobs in the UK.
"My journey at UCLan started when my job application for the position of English for Academic Purposes Tutor was successful and for me this was a life-changing opportunity.
Since English is my second language, and despite being a qualified and experienced English lecturer with several teaching qualifications, a master’s degree and many years of work experience, I thought teaching English at a UK university would be unattainable.
Initially, I started as a tutor, then got promoted to a lecturer and now I am also a module leader at the School of Business and Management.
Working for UCLan has had a remarkable and positive impact on my career."
"UCLan is keen on continuous professional development and my line manager has encouraged and fully supported me to study my current second postgraduate degree (Postgraduate Certificate in Academic Practice).
This degree has also helped me achieve my Fellowship of Higher Education Academy.
‘Creating Opportunities’, and ‘Supporting All’, two of UCLan’s values are evident in our practices and I am a ‘Proud UCLanian’!
If I had been asked six years ago, I would not have thought I could achieve all this.
In my personal life, I have faced so many challenges and there were moments when it was easy to give up and hard to go on, but I am glad I chose to go on."

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/staff-spotlight/yvie-rose:
Yvie Rose is a Web Content Officer at the University of Central Lancashire.
Yvie has worked at UCLan for over 15 years after moving from Brighton to the North West.
As a single mother working part-time, Yvie appreciates the flexibility that UCLan offers with its working hours.
Yvie also values the compassion and support that UCLan extend to all employees.
“I have been fortunate enough to work here for 15 years, and one of the key reasons why I have stayed so long is because of the kind, diverse, and supportive environment that it fosters.
The University's commitment to promoting equality, diversity, and inclusion (EDI) has created a vibrant community where people from all walks of life feel welcome and included.
"What impresses me the most about the University is its dedication to supporting its staff and students through a range of networks and initiatives.
For example, our LGBT+ Network is incredibly active and hosts numerous social events throughout the year, providing a welcoming space for our LGBTQ+ community to connect and celebrate their diversity.
It also offers opportunities for staff and students to get involved in shaping EDI initiatives, which has allowed me to feel like an active participant in creating a more inclusive workplace.
As an openly gay, single mother working part-time, I have also appreciated the flexibility that UCLan offers with its working hours, as well as the compassion and support that is extended to all employees.
It understands the challenges that many of its staff members face and goes above and beyond to create a work environment that is accommodating and supportive.
Overall, I am grateful to be part of such a diverse and inclusive community that values and celebrates the differences among its members.
I have made friends for life here and look forward to many more years of working in this exceptional environment.”

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/staff-spotlight/vaida:
Vaida works in the RES Grants and Funding Unit at the University of Central Lancashire.
Vaida graduated from UCLan with an MSc in Marketing Management in 2009 and came back to the University as an employee in 2011.
Vaida has worked in different departments over the years and currently works in the Grants and Funding Unit.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/staff-spotlight/mike-fernando:
Professor Mike Fernando is the Dean of Engineering and Computing at the University of Central Lancashire.
Mike is pleased to work for an institution that demonstrates a willingness to learn, adapt and change for the benefit of its academic community.
“UCLan is a fantastic place to work as a person from an ethnic minority background.
The welcome I received from my team and colleagues within the University has been warm and I’ve always been made to feel at home.
Academic community is at the heart of any university.
At UCLan the academic community is encouraged to bring our diverse cultures together to enrich the whole University."
"What I think sets UCLan apart in its commitment to EDI is that UCLan doesn’t rest on its laurels and past achievements.
UCLan is continuously striving to enrich the lives of each member of the academic community.
What gives me great motivation to do the very best for UCLan is that senior colleagues are engaging in hard conversations.
There is a sense of learning together; no one knows everything, but together we are building each other up.
I’m pleased to be part of an institution that demonstrates a willingness to learn, adapt and change for the benefit of its academic community.“

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/staff-spotlight/halima-kure:
Halima Kure is a Lecturer in Computing at the University of Central Lancashire.
Halima is one of our newer members of staff, joining UCLan in 2022 after moving from London to Preston.
She made the move after completing her PhD at the University of East London, where she also worked as an assistant lecturer while completing her studies.
“I have met some amazing colleagues who have been very supportive and helped me settle in quickly.
I’ve also had support from a mentor, who is helping me progress in my career while managing a family."

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/staff-spotlight/danielle-hunt:
Danielle is a Student Coach in Engineering at the University of Central Lancashire.
Danielle graduated from Psychology at UCLan and worked in an internship at the University.
Since then, Danielle has worked in various fixed-term roles and now works as a Student Coach in Engineering.
Danielle says: “I always strive to improve and grow as an individual and support my colleagues to do the same.
I always like to get involved with everything as I feel that you never stop learning.
The more you learn and know, the more you can effectively support those around you."
"I am a first aider, mental health and suicide first aider and mental health champion here at UCLan.
I also run the Coaching Network here too.
Getting involved allows you to network, meet new people and learn from each other.”

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/staff-spotlight/terence-jagger:
Terence Jagger is a Lecturer in Health and Social Care.
Following a 20-year career working for the NHS, UCLan graduate, Terence Jagger is now working as a Lecturer in UCLan’s School of Health and Midwifery.
Terence teaches and supports students on the Foundation Degree in Health and Social Care and the Higher Degree Apprenticeship for Assistant Practitioners.
“It is such a privilege to be at UCLan as a member of staff and to support the programme I initially studied, which I truly believe in.
As a lifelong Prestonian, I feel proud to be giving something back.”
Terence provides support in 'Work Based Learning' for the Healthcare Assistant Practitioner Higher Apprenticeship, Foundation Degree Programme.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/staff-spotlight/monica-bando:
Dr Monica Bando is a Senior Lecturer in Veterinary Professional and Clinical Skills.
Monica is also the Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion Lead.
Monica joined UCLan to contribute to a new, innovative, animal-welfare focused veterinary school.
Monica aim's to create a culture of inclusion by breaking down barriers to veterinary professions.
“I am half Japanese, half Norwegian/German and was born in Tokyo, raised in Japan, Singapore, Norway, and the U.S.
I studied wildlife ecology and conservation in Florida, marine biology in Alaska, and completed my veterinary degree at Massey University in New Zealand and my PhD in the U.S (Washington state).
I worked hard and was also very fortunate for the opportunities to work internationally in private practice, charities, wildlife conservation and welfare research, and academia.
Through my varied experiences, it became apparent how much work needs to be done across the globe to improve the lives of all animals, which spurred me to become an ethical vegan.
My experiences also made me realise how imperative it is to educate and empower future veterinarians to embrace their role in advocating for better animal welfare."
"That is why I was so eager to join this incredible team here at UCLan, for the unique opportunity to contribute to a new, innovative, animal-welfare focused veterinary school that is also committed to creating a culture of inclusion and belonging by breaking down barriers to veterinary and allied animal-care professions.
I feel very fortunate to be a part of a team who values our diverse backgrounds, perspectives, and lived experiences, and also prioritises staff and student wellbeing.
As a veterinary profession we need to do more in terms of equality, diversity and inclusion, and our new School of Veterinary Medicine is committed to doing our part."

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/staff-spotlight/suzanne-juniper:
Suzanne Juniper works as an AQU Business Partner and EDI Lead in the Academic Quality Unit
Suzanne has worked at UCLan for over 20 years.
After being diagnosed with Multiple Sclerosis whilst on maternity leave, she found it difficult to disclose this at work.
She got all the support she needed and encourages others to share any disability so they can get the support they need too.
“Having worked at UCLan for more than 20 years, I have seen many changes.
In that time, my roles have changed but I have also changed.
After a serious illness, I was diagnosed with Multiple Sclerosis whilst on maternity leave, which I found difficult to admit at work for some time.
I didn’t want to appear different as I thought that I would be judged by others and viewed as not able to undertake my role.
When I finally did, it felt good to have the support of colleagues and, when I explained how my illness affected me, their understanding."
"A meeting with Occupational Health is useful to be able to clearly set out what support or adjustments you may need for the benefit of yourself and your line manager.
Flexible and hybrid working together with priority parking have really helped me.
I also feel it’s important to provide feedback about where improvements can be made in university life, using your own lived experience.
Being part of the various staff networks are a great way of being able to do this as you can provide feedback on various aspects from university strategies to proposed building works.”

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/staff-spotlight/laila-khan:
Laila Khan - Student Support Adviser
“I feel incredibly lucky that my manager, line manager and colleagues share openly our feelings, thoughts, concerns, and ideas frequently and it feels very assuring when those things are not only heard but we see the changes are implemented.
When I work here, I feel socially free and my creativity flows organically, my confidence rises and most importantly I am mentally healthy.
“I love my job because no day is ever the same.
Each day I face new challenges and situations, which really helps me to stay focused and interested.
I also enjoy being able to be as creative as I can.
It gives me independence, flexibility, motivation and satisfaction.”

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/values-and-initiatives/equality-diversity-inclusion:
We welcome and celebrate the rich diversity of our students, staff, and our community partners.
We recognise that our diversity is our strength and work hard to ensure that equality, diversity, and inclusion are part of everything we do.
We are committed to providing a safe, inclusive environment.
Where everybody is treated equally, has equality of opportunity and feels as though they belong within the University.
Find out more about our ambitions and plans.
We have been transforming lives since 1828 and has always been committed to access and widening participation.
To this day we pride ourselves on being an open and accessible institution for people from all backgrounds.
Charter marks provide a public opportunity for us to focus on equality strands, to celebrate successes and stretch our ambitions.
The University of Central Lancashire is committed to delivering a welcoming and inclusive culture that promotes equality and values diversity within our community.
We will provide a safe working, learning, and social environment in which the rights and dignity of all our colleagues and students are respected, and where they can be authentic, valued, and supported.
We are required to publish equality information annually, including gender pay gap information.
Our annual equality reports detail the progress of our Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Strategy, objectives and action plan.
We also gather and report on a range of data to help us monitor the effects of policies, practices and activities on staff and students from all equality groups.
This helps us identify and develop evidenced-based actions to improve equality, diversity and inclusion in every aspect of university life.
The Equality Act 2010 places a general duty upon public bodies to eliminate unlawful discrimination, harassment and victimisation, advance equality of opportunity between people from different groups and foster good relations between people from different groups
We are expected to demonstrate our performance under the public sector equality duty in the following ways:
Our Belonging at Strategy shows our commitment to delivering a welcoming and inclusive culture which promotes inclusion, tackles inequalities and values diversity.
View our Gender equality plan
The Athena SWAN project aims to address issues around gender and diversity within Higher Education.
It is an accreditation scheme administered by the Equality Challenge Unit.
The University of Central Lancashire was awarded the Bronze status in April 2014 and had it renewed in 2019.
You can find the Athena SWAN Bronze Application for November 2019.
Please view our Statement on racism and antisemitism published Wednesday 15 June 2022.
We support an array of colleague groups and networks with the aim to promote Equality, Diversity and Inclusion within their specific areas of expertise.
They provide support, signposting, networking opportunities and increase colleague awareness of equality, diversity and inclusion activities.
For further information on Equality, Diversity and Inclusion at the University please email the team at editeam@uclan.ac.uk
Alternatively, contact us on +44 (0)1772 89 4123 or +44 (0)1772 89 4967

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/about-us/strategic-plan-2021-2028:
As we approach our 200th anniversary in 2028, it’s the perfect time to revisit, refine and reaffirm our mission and strategy.
We have a long and successful history of giving our students an outstanding higher education experience, enriched by real-world, practical learning opportunities and our second-to-none support services.
We’re proud to offer these life-changing opportunities to everyone who can benefit from them, whatever their background or their personal circumstances.
Our historical achievements make us rightly proud, but we’ll never stop evolving, improving and making the most of new opportunities.
Over the coming years, we’ll continue to be innovative and strive for excellence in everything we do.
This applies especially to our teaching and the outstanding support we offer which enables our students to realise their potential.
By regularly reviewing our vision, mission, aspirations and strategic priorities, we’ll continue to grow as an institution, remaining relevant and innovative in our ever-changing world.
We’ll continue to enhance our already strong position of leading the way in modern learning.
This strategy identifies our priorities for the next seven years, building on the strong foundations we’ve established over many years.
These strengths define our identity.
Looking towards our 200-year anniversary, our priorities are many and varied.
They include our unwavering focus on people, our innovative approach to teaching and learning, and our ever-increasing reputation in research and its effect on society.
Not forgetting our role as a civic university, our commitment to growing the regional economy, our continued focus on environmental and sustainability agendas, and our developing status as a global institution.
You’ll see that our strategy is both optimistic and ambitious.
I’m confident that, with the talent and dedication of colleagues across our University, we’ll accomplish everything we’re setting out to achieve.
Together we’ll have a positive and sustained influence on the many lives we touch, regionally, nationally and internationally.
As always, our students will be at the heart of everything we do.
They can be assured that during their time with us, they’ll gain the knowledge and skills to achieve their ambitions, and the passion and confidence to shape their future.
We transform lives by delivering an outstanding educational experience, creating prosperity and opportunity in the communities we serve.
To be recognised as a leading UK university, with national and international influence, delivering real-world, practice-based education from our Preston, Burnley, Blackburn (Training 2000), West Cumbria, and Cyprus campuses.
Our extensive curriculum offer, from the arts and sciences to medicine and engineering, is research informed and employer engaged.
So, our students are assured of the highest quality learning experience and the best possible outcomes.
In an ever more competitive world, we must never become complacent in striving for our ambitions.
The success of our strategy depends on innovation and continuous improvement to 2028 and beyond, so our KPIs will be monitored and reported on annually.
In three years, we’ll review this plan against what we have achieved and if we need to adapt, we will, to maximise our opportunities for success by 2028.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/legal/privacy-notices/ad-hoc-workers:
Please see below for the University’s ad hoc workers privacy notice.
This privacy notice tells you what to expect us to do with your personal information when you are an ad hoc worker at the University.
Please see our main contact details on our website.
You can contact the People Team on 01772 89 2324 or email: peopleteam@uclan.ac.uk
Further information and contact details can be found on the data protection pages of our website.
Most of the information we use is provided by you directly or generated by you as a result of the work you do for the University.
This includes information collected via the ad hoc worker system (Dashboard Technology); identity documents including biometric cards; forms completed by you at the start of, or during, work; information you provide in correspondence; or through interviews and meetings.
The People Team or the service that engages your services may also collect information about you from third parties, such as references, providers of background checks for workers and criminal record checks.
Where relevant to the work you are undertaking, the University also uses your photograph; information you generate as a result of your use of corporate systems including the email system; CCTV images captured by our CCTV system; and financial information about you.
If you are a part of our academic community, we may also use information about you generated as a result of research you undertake, whether at the University or another institution.
When you undertake any work for the University, we use information about you for a variety of purposes.
The main purposes are set out below.
For People Team purposes and the administration of the work you undertake
We use your information to provide a People service and administer all elements of the work you undertake, including: managing your engagement; maintaining accurate and up-to-date records and contact details of workers; ensuring effective general People and payroll administration, including auto-enrolment in a pension scheme where criteria are met; ascertaining your eligibility to work in the UK; complying with employment and equality law; responding to and defending against legal claims; and maintaining and promoting equality, diversity and inclusion within the workplace.
Operation of the University’s regulations, policies, procedures and codes of practice
We will use information about you to investigate complaints or allegations involving you or another ad hoc worker, a student, member of staff or external party under any of the University’s rules, regulations, policies, procedures or codes of practice.
We may also use information about you that is publicly available, such as information posted to social media and other public forums, where this is relevant in a particular case e.g.
complaints about inappropriate posts on social media.
Information will be used to investigate complaints or allegations, manage the outcomes and put in place any remedies, including additional support or disciplinary measures.
The University operates a CCTV system for security and crime prevention purposes.
This covers University buildings (inside and outside) and public areas across our campuses.
CCTV footage may be used, where there is a lawful basis, in the investigation of complaints and allegations made under the University’s rules, regulations, policies, procedures and codes of practice.
We make available the SafeZone app to the University community.
If you are eligible to use SafeZone and you choose to use the app, will use information (including location data) collected via your use of the app to help ensure the safety of you and others on and around campus (or anywhere else in the world, if you use the app elsewhere), and manage and monitor check-ins and alerts.
We will also use SafeZone to send emergency text alerts (and push notifications, if you have downloaded the app) in the event of a serious incident, campus closure, significant IT issue, etc.
that we need to notify lots of individuals about at the same time.
The SafeZone app is provided on our behalf by CriticalArc, a third party under contract to the University.
All University buildings have security access controls and require you to scan your corporate card to enter and exit.
The door entry system collects information each time your card is used to show the date and time you enter and leave a particular building.
This information is used to ensure that only authorised individuals can access our buildings; it is also used to check building occupancy for safety and security purposes, and for research purposes to establish patterns of use of buildings and services across our estate.
Delivery of facilities and services
Where applicable, depending on the work you are engaged to undertake, we will use your information to provide you with services and facilities such as an IT service, library and parking permits.
We use your photograph for identification purposes on your corporate card, if you are eligible for a card.
If you are eligible for an email account, we also make your photograph available within our internal email system for identification purposes, to enhance security and to promote strong working relationships.
To provide an effective IT service, if you are eligible we use your information to create a network account, monitor the use and security of our systems and networks, including managing our multi factor authentication solution to enable you to access our systems, provide technical support and for all related administrative and security purposes, including system testing and development.
Where we provide you with an email account, we will have access to all the emails you send and receive from that account and may access email content for legitimate business or employment purposes.
Further information can be found in the Email Use Policy.
Communicating with you
We will use your information to communicate effectively with you via email, post, telephone, text (SMS), social media or other methods, as appropriate.
We will send you messages about a variety of things such as the administration of the work you are undertaking, events and activities happening at the University or notify you of emergency or other significant situations relating to the University which may affect you.
We will use your information to compile statistics and for research, surveys and market research to help with corporate planning, reporting and University administration.
Monitoring and compliance
We will use your information to ensure and monitor our compliance with legislation including laws relating to equality, health and safety and immigration.
We will also use your information to monitor our compliance with regulatory requirements set by external agencies.
Article 6(1)(b) , which allows us to process personal data when it is necessary for the performance of a contract or for steps taken with a view to entering into a contract.
You indicate you would like to enter into a contract for services with us when you register on Dashboard, and you enter into a contract for services with us (your contract) when you accept an offer of work via Dashboard and become an ad hoc worker.
Under your contract, we administer all activities associated with the performance of the work you are engaged to undertake and your status as an ad hoc worker, including communicating messages to you in a variety of formats.
We require you to provide any information we reasonably request for these purposes otherwise we cannot deliver your services contract.
Article 6(1)(c) , which allows us to process personal data when it is necessary to comply with a legal obligation, such as our obligation to provide reasonable adjustments under the Equality Act 2010 if you request them, as well as monitoring compliance with laws relating to immigration (e.g.
visas) and health and safety, among other things.
Article 6(1)(e) , which allows us to process personal data where it is necessary to perform a task in the public interest.
Internal reporting, monitoring, research and auditing are carried out as part of the performance of our public tasks.
We also process some information only if you provide your consent.
In this case, Article 6(1)(a ) applies, and Article 9(2)(a) applies where the information is special category data (special category data is information about your race, ethnic origin, political opinions, religious beliefs, trade union membership, genetic data, biometric data used for ID purposes, health, sex life or sexual orientation).
It will be clear where we are relying on your consent to collect and use your information because consent will be requested at the time you provide the information.
When you are asked for consent, we will explain why we are asking for the information and how we will use it if you choose to provide it.
Consent can be withdrawn at any time and we will explain how you can do this in each individual case.
Where we process special category data for the purposes set out in this notice, we rely on the following additional lawful bases from the UK GDPR and DPA:
Article 9(2)(g) UK GDPR , which allows us to process special category data if the processing is necessary in the substantial public interest and there is a basis to do so in law.
The law which allows us to rely on this basis is section 10 DPA by virtue of Schedule 1(6) and Schedule 1(8) DPA .
Schedule 1(6) DPA enables us to process special category data where we are required to do so by law, such as when we comply with the Equality Act 2010; Schedule 1(8) DPA enables us to process information such ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation or data concerning health for equality monitoring purposes.
When processing special category data in reliance on the above conditions from Schedule 1 DPA the University must have an appropriate policy document, which can be read here: Data Protection: Processing special category data and criminal convictions data .
Article 9(2)(j) UK GDPR , which allows us to process special category data for archiving, scientific or historical research purposes or statistical purposes, where there is a basis to do so in law.
The law which allows us to rely on this basis is section 10 DPA by virtue of Schedule 1(4) DPA.
We share your information with a range of external organisations and bodies, some of which are processing personal data on our behalf.
Occasionally we may need to send your personal information outside the European Economic Area (EEA) e.g.
to obtain references or a service from a processor.
In the case of references, these transfers are carried out because they are necessary steps in the engagement process.
All other transfers are carried out with appropriate safeguards in place to protect your information and ensure it remains secure, such as the UK International Data Transfer Agreement or the UK International Data Transfer Addendum.
Records relating to the work you undertake at the University will be retained for various time periods depending on the activity they relate to.
Generally, records relating to People Team purposes will be retained for a maximum of six years following the termination of your services contract.
There are exceptions, such as information relating to accidents at work; this information is retained for 40 years after the termination of your services contract.
Other information associated with the work you undertake, such as information relating to your IT network account (if applicable) and network monitoring, is retained for one year after the end of the specific activity.
For example, network monitoring records will be kept for one year following the end of the monitoring activity.
Further information about retention periods can be obtained from the University’s retention schedule by contacting your work coordinator, if you do not have access to the staff intranet.
The right only applies if we are processing information because we have your consent or because it is necessary for your contract, and the processing is automated.
If you have queries or concerns, please contact the relevant part of the University or the Information Governance Manager & Data Protection Officer and we will respond.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/people:
Our University is operated and supported by passionate teams across our campuses.
Our people are dedicated to achieving our vision of transforming lives through education.
The University Board is the governing body of the University of Central Lancashire and its business is conducted in accordance with the Instrument and Articles of Government.
This page contains key legal and regulatory information relating to the University and its various stakeholders.
The Student Charter has been developed by your university and your Students’ Union.
It outlines our academic community culture and the principles we uphold.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/values-and-initiatives/athena-swan:
In 2020, the University was awarded the Athena Swan Bronze award in recognition of our commitment to eliminating gender bias across our campuses.
The Athena SWAN Bronze award recognises the efforts of Higher Education organisations to create an inclusive work culture for men and women in academic, professional and support roles.
It also looks to provide equal opportunities for study, promotion and career development, including trans staff and students.
The University has been a member of the Athena SWAN Charter since 2005.
We were awarded an Institutional Bronze award in 2014 and 2020.
The award recognises our commitment to adopt the Charter’s ten principles in our policies, practices and culture.
We have taken important steps to increase our commitment to gender equality, which is recognised by this award.
We are preparing to renew our Bronze award in 2026, reaffirming our ongoing dedication to fostering an inclusive and equitable environment.
The Athena Swan Charter is a framework which is used across the globe to support and transform gender equality within higher education (HE) and research.
Established in 2005 to recognise the commitment to advancing the careers of women, the Charter is now being used across the globe.
Our vision is to strengthen our culture of equality, diversity and inclusion for our University community to ensure a place where everyone can thrive, while feeling safe, valued and supported.
For further information on Athena Swan please contact
Charlotte Delaney, Director of Equality, Diversity & Inclusion - cjdelaney@uclan.ac.uk
EDI Team – editeam@uclan.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/jobs/facility-time-publication-requirements:
The facility time data for the Academic Year September 2019 to August 2020 that the University is required to collate and publish under the regulations is shown below.
We have included tables to illustrate the information required.
What was the total number of your employees who were relevant union officials during the relevant period?
How many of your employees who were relevant union officials employed during the relevant period spent a) 0%, b) 1%-50%, c) 51%-99% or d) 100% of their working hours on facility time?
Provide the figures requested in the first column of the table below to determine the percentage of your total pay bill spent on paying employees who were relevant union officials for facility time during the relevant period.
As a percentage of total paid facility time hours, how many hours were spent by employees who were relevant union officials during the relevant period on paid trade union activities?

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/alumni/join-or-update:
As a member of the Alumni Network, you are always a part of the University of Central Lancashire.
For us to be a service to you, it's important that you keep us updated with your contact details and your contact preferences.
If you’re already a member of the Alumni Network and you’ve previously created a portal account, you can update your details direct on our alumni portal .
If you are an existing member and don’t have a portal account or are due to graduate this year and would like to join our Alumni Network, you can do so by completing the form below.
On doing so, you will be sent an invitation to set up a portal account if you provide an email address and consent to contact you by email.
This can take up to a week after submitting the form.
Please note, your alumni membership will not be created until you successfully complete your studies and have graduated.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/alumni/graduate-support:
Did you know that graduates from the University of Central Lancashire have access to a lifetime of careers advice?
Our Careers Advisors are on hand to offer you one-to-one support.
This can be anything from searching for jobs or courses to helping you with your CV and applications.
We also provide support for students with disabilities.
Take that next step towards your chosen career at employer events, careers fairs and webinars.
Join our alumni community after graduation and make use of all the lifetime graduate benefits and careers support we have to offer, whether it be careers advice, library and gym facilities or business support.
You'll also have access to our Careers systems.
Please see the instructions below.
If you get stuck at any point, please email us at careers@uclan.ac.uk and we will endeavour to help you as quickly as possible.
If you graduated after October 2021, you should be able to access your Handshake account by setting a password for your graduate account: Handshake password reset .
You will need to enter the personal email address which you used when you last enrolled at UCLan and press 'Reset Password'.
You will get an email with instructions to follow (please check your spam/junk folder if the email does not arrive).
If you have changed your personal email since you last enrolled with UCLan then email us at careers@uclan.ac.uk and we will help (please include the UCLan email you had whilst studying with us, your G Number (student registration number), and your date of birth to help us locate your record).
If you graduated before October 2021, please email us the same information as above and we will create an account for you.
If you would like to access CareerEDGE, and you didn’t convert your account to a graduate account before you left, please email us and we will help: careers@uclan.ac.uk (please include the UCLan email you had whilst studying with us, your G Number (student registration number), and your date of birth to help us locate your record).
If you did convert your account before you left you can sign in with your personal email and the password you created at: CareerEDGE graduate sign in.
You can request access to our Careers Systems by completing the Alumni join and update form and we will help.
When completing the form to join or update your Alumni details don’t forget to tick the YES box below the question ‘Would you like graduate access to the UCLan Careers Online System?’

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/alumni/meet-our-alumni:
Studying at the University of Central Lancashire has led to interesting and rewarding careers across the globe for our graduates and this is something we’re proud of.
Meet some of our featured alumni and share their stories.
Alumna Lucy talks about her time studying here

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/news/hundreds-take-trip-down-memory-lane:
UCLan welcomed back graduates to special Alumni Reunion
Hundreds of University of Central Lancashire (UCLan) alumni travelled from far and wide to relive their student days at a special celebratory event in Preston.
The day was jam-packed with a range of tours and guest lectures and culminated in a talk from UCLan Honorary Fellow and Cold Feet actor John Thomson.
One of the attendees was 90-year-old Rosemary Robinson who graduated in shorthand and typing in 1948 and went on to work at Leyland Motors.
She said: “It was Harris College back when I came but we all called it going to school.
All the girls were on one floor and the boys on another.
Things have changed a lot since then, but I like coming back and speaking to other people who studied here at the same time.”
A couple who met at UCLan in the early 2000s travelled from Derbyshire to show their three young children where it all started.
It was 2005 forensic science graduate Amy Bishop-Powell and her 2004 motorsports engineering graduate husband Paul’s first trip back to Preston.
Amy said: “I can’t believe how it’s changed so much since we both left.
It’s just absolutely fantastic to see how it’s developed and what great facilities are here for today’s students.
It’s been really lovely to show Reuben, Logan and Saffron where mummy and daddy met.”
UCLan’s Canoe Club in the late 1990s brought together now husband and wife Chris and Hannah Bull.
The couple, who have two teenage daughters, returned to the campus with friend and fellow alumnus Martin Stork.
History graduate Hannah said: “I’m a primary school teacher so I keep coming back with my school to UCLan’s fantastic Lancashire Science Festival, but I wanted to come along to be able to look around and revisit some of the old haunts.
It’s been a great opportunity to think back and talk about such happy times.”
An MBA graduate, who combined her studies with working for BAE, took the opportunity to see the recent campus developments first-hand and to hear how the University is producing the next generation of industry professionals.
Maria Sumner, who completed a Diploma in Management Studies in 1995, her MBA in 1997 and a Postgraduate Certificate in Criminology and Criminal Justice in 2003, commented: “There have been lots of developments recently, so I wanted to see for myself what has been created and it’s wonderful.
“It was also really lovely to hear from the Vice-Chancellor, who has been involved with the University for a long time and is clearly passionate about its future.”
Entertainment throughout the day included a silent disco, a dance performance from alumni and music from UCLan’s Samba Drummers while artefacts from the University’s archives were also on display.
Actor and comedian John Thomson, who grew up in the city, was the star attraction for many in attendance.
He said: “I was truly humbled and so proud when the University awarded me with an Honorary Fellowship in 2017.
With that position comes a responsibility to help UCLan in any way I can so I was delighted to be asked back to take part in such a special event.”
The University has a global alumni community of more than 200,000 graduates.
At Saturday’s event, graduates travelled from across the UK, including Cornwall, London and the Midlands.
Maggie Wild, UCLan’s Head of Development and Alumni, added: “It was fantastic to hear so many heart-warming stories from graduates who studied at Harris College, Preston Polytechnic, Lancashire Polytechnic and UCLan.
“The hundreds who attended hold the institution so close to their hearts and it was clear to see the love they have for the place has never diminished.
Seeing some of our oldest alumni, who are now in their 90s, chatting to a couple of 2023 graduates was lovely as they’ve had such different educational experiences but UCLan has drawn them together.”

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/alumni/achievement-awards:
The University of Central Lancashire Alumni Achievement Awards have been established to honour and celebrate the achievements of our global University alumni community.
We are proud of our graduates and want to recognise those who have achieved great things.
Whether that be in their profession, or through their work within the wider community.
This could include charity work or a contribution to the arts or business.
The awards are open to all alumni of the University of Central Lancashire, including those from predecessor institutions such as Preston Polytechnic.
We welcome nominations from staff and students.
Alumni cannot nominate themselves for an award but can nominate their former classmates.
We will award Alumni Achievement Awards to those who have made an outstanding contribution in the following areas:
Arundeep Kang OBE - Alumni Achievement Award
Do you know someone who's achieved great things since graduating?
The 2025 nomination window has closed, but you can nominate a graduate for the 2026 Alumni Achievement Awards until Monday 2 March 2026.
Nominations are reviewed by the University Alumni Awards Committee who make the final decision about the winners.
For more information about the Alumni Achievement Awards, email the University of Central Lancashire Alumni Network or call +44 (0) 1772 894422 .

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/professional-services/eye-health-clinic:
" From the very beginning I was impressed by the service received.
The student who attended was very thorough and happy to answer the questions I had about my blepharitis.
I would not hesitate to recommend the Eye Clinic.
We offer a full Opticians service.
We offer comprehensive eye tests and are able to carry out more tests than time constraints would allow in a normal practice.
Tests are double checked by a supervisor, with plenty of time to chat through any concerns, or ask questions.
Option 1:
Eye Examination by Student Optometrist (Supervised) (2 hours) £5
Option 2:
Eye Examination by Qualified Optometrist (1 hour) £25
Our frame brands at the moment include Ted Baker, Stepper, United colours of Benneton, Land Rover, Cocoa Mint and Hook London.
To book appointments at our Eye Health Clinic, please fill in the booking form and we will get back to you as soon as possible.
Please read our privacy policy before filling in the form.
Contact us:
To enquire please contact us via email or telephone +44 (0)1772  89 1900
Eye Health Clinic, 3rd Floor, Harrington Building Adelphi Street, Preston PR1 7QS
Hannah works full time, overseeing the day to day running of the Eye Clinic.
Hannah started working in optics in 1999, she then undertook a dispensing course and qualified in 2004 as a Dispensing Optician.
Since then, she has worked in large multiples and small independents.
She has also been involved with Domiciliary care.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/alumni/graduate-outcomes:
Knowing what our graduates do when they leave is extremely important to us.
This information is crucial in allowing current and prospective students to make informed decisions about their career paths and will help us to evaluate and promote our courses.
The aim of the survey is to understand your student experience from a learning and employment perspective.
The Graduate Outcomes survey is owned by HESA (Higher Education Statistics Agency) and replaces the DLHE (Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education) survey.
If you are selected to take part in the survey you will be contacted directly by HESA.
To support the survey, we are required to hold accurate contact details of you, our graduates, including a personal email address, at least one telephone number and a postal address (this can be a parental/guardian address if needs be).
If you have graduated since 2016, it is likely that you will be able to update your contact details on our dedicated alumni portal.
If you graduated earlier than this, you will not be contacted to take part in Graduate Outcomes but you can update your contact details should you wish via the ‘ update your details ’ form.
To find out more about the Graduate Outcomes survey please see the Graduate Outcomes website .
If you have any questions or concerns, please contact us .

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/giving/legacy:
When writing a will, and after making provision for your loved ones, leaving a charitable gift in your will is an excellent way to support the University of Central Lancashire.
By leaving a legacy to the University, no matter how large or small, you can play your own special part in supporting us, our community and our students.
Legacies play a significant part in our future development and success.
They can be a lasting testament to your contribution to educating future generations of students.
Leaving a legacy is simple, tax efficient and long lasting.
It can sometimes allow a more significant donation than may have been possible during your lifetime.
Your legacy can be directed to any aspect of the our work that resonates personally.
Your support could fund research, improve our teaching facilities or ensure that students have the opportunity to reach their full potential.
We are unfortunately unable to offer any formal legal or financial advice on will making or estate planning, as we are not qualified advisors.
We welcome the opportunity to talk to you about your legacy wishes and intentions.
We'll always respect your wishes and understand if you would prefer to remain anonymous.
Donations in memory enable you to celebrate your loved one's life and interests.
We have a variety of ways for your loved one to be remembered through gifts made to the university.
To leave a donation in memory, you can either:
We are very grateful to all who remember their loved one with a gift to us.
If you'd like to find out more, you can email our Giving Team.
We'll be able to discuss options with you, and help explain the process in more detail.
We have a number of funds available to gift to.
Each fund is committed to supporting our students in a number of ways.
You can find out more about each fund by visiting their page.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/giving/harris-bursary-fund:
The Harris Bursary Fund is the name for all donations given to support students.
This is used to help those who need it – and can be for any student on any course.
The Harris Bursary Fund was established as a charitable fund through the University of Central Lancashire Foundation to provide support to our students.
The fund provides much needed practical support.
It helps students focus on their studies and continue in achieving their goals.
The Harris Bursary Fund often helps students get essential study related items such as text books and computer equipment.
It also covers further support that our students may need and be eligible for.
Over the years the Fund has been successfully awarded to help hundreds of our students going through difficult times.
The Harris Bursary Fund relies heavily on charitable donations – both personal and corporate.
Donations to the Fund are eligible for Gift Aid.
The University of Central Lancashire Foundation has full charitable status, however, is exempt from registration under the Second Schedule to the Charities Act 1993.
The support we provide for our students generously comes from funds provided by benefactors.
This fund, among others, is available and open for donation.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/giving/school-of-medicine-and-dentistry-hardship-fund:
Our students are brilliant, hard-working individuals.
Despite often difficult circumstances, they thrive.
But they need your support.
We help those we can, but to respond swiftly and positively when an unexpected need arises, they need flexible support.
The School of Medicine and Dentistry Hardship Fund enables us to support more students and enable them to focus on learning to be the best they can be.
Qualifications in areas such as Medicine, Dentistry, Physician Associate Studies and Vision Sciences are a substantial investment for our students.
Programmes are often longer than regular courses, and involve a lot of time, work and effort to complete.
A significant proportion of our students face financial hardship during their studies.
Many are government-sponsored, but this funding often only covers the bare essentials.
Others are funded by their families, who are often making huge sacrifices to support the student’s education.
For those students from overseas, most are a long way from home with the additional burden that brings.
Many of our students are on courses that are regulated by a professional body, and may incur costs that other students do not have to face.
This includes a need for smart workwear, equipment and travel costs.
With the generous donations we receive from our benefactors, we can help our students overcome these hardships.
This support helps them achieve their dreams as qualified medical professionals.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/events/whats-on:
Events range from our conferences , performances and exhibitions, alumni, Saturday Club , sport and outdoor events, public lectures, festivals, events at the Harris Museum and more.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/events/cpd:
Browse our upcoming professional development events hosted across our campus network.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/events/conferences:
We host several academic conferences and events throughout the year.
Please select he conference/event that you are interested in.
You can then access more information and the booking link.
Please be aware that during events, there may be official event photography/filming taking place for marketing and promotional purposes.
This may be used in both on and offline publications, public relations and advertising including:
This is for the promotion of the University and of University courses at its partner institutions.
If, for whatever reason, you or a member of your group does not wish to be photographed please make yourself known to staff working at the event on arrival or to the photographer or film crew.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/news/experts-directory:
The University of Central Lancashire's experts directory is a searchable resource for journalists.
It provides contact details of our academics who are happy to assist the media with their enquiries.
If you have any questions about media engagement, or you cannot find the right expert for your story, then please feel free to get in touch.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/news/listing:
Browse our news listings.
You can search by keyword or use the filters to find the news that you're most interested in.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/news/big-ring-in-the-sky:
Discovery of a second ultra-large structure in distant space further challenges what we understand about the universe
The discovery of a second ultra-large structure in the remote universe has further challenged some of the basic assumptions about cosmology.
The Big Ring on the Sky is 9.2 billion light-years from Earth.
It has a diameter of about 1.3 billion light-years, and a circumference of about four billion light-years.
If we could step outside and see it directly, the diameter of the Big Ring would need about 15 full Moons to cover it.
It is the second ultra-large structure discovered by University of Central Lancashire (UCLan) PhD student Alexia Lopez who, two years ago, also discovered the Giant Arc on the Sky.
Remarkably, the Big Ring and the Giant Arc, which is 3.3 billion light-years across, are in the same cosmological neighbourhood – they are seen at the same distance, at the same cosmic time, and are only 12 degrees apart on the sky.
Alexia said: “Neither of these two ultra-large structures is easy to explain in our current understanding of the universe.
And their ultra-large sizes, distinctive shapes, and cosmological proximity must surely be telling us something important – but what exactly?
“One possibility is that the Big Ring could be related to Baryonic Acoustic Oscillations (BAOs).
BAOs arise from oscillations in the early universe and today should appear, statistically at least, as spherical shells in the arrangement of galaxies.
However, detailed analysis of the Big Ring revealed it is not really compatible with the BAO explanation: the Big Ring is too large and is not spherical.”
Other explanations might be needed, explanations that depart from what is generally considered to be the standard understanding in cosmology.
One possibility might be a different theory – Conformal Cyclic Cosmology (CCC) – which was proposed by Nobel-prize winner Sir Roger Penrose.
Rings in the universe could conceivably be a signal of CCC.
Another explanation might be the effect of cosmic strings passing through.
Cosmic strings are filamentary ‘topological defects’ of great size, which could have been created in the early universe.
Another Nobel-prize winner, Jim Peebles, recently hypothesised that cosmic strings could have a role in the origin of some other peculiarities in the large-scale distribution of galaxies.
Furthermore, the Big Ring challenges the Cosmological Principle, as did the Giant Arc previously.
And if the Big Ring and the Giant Arc together form a still larger structure then the challenge to the Cosmological Principle becomes even more compelling.
Such large structures – and there are others found by other cosmologists – challenge our idea of what an ‘average’ region of space looks like.
They exceed the size limit of what is considered theoretically viable, and they pose potential challenges to the Cosmological Principle.
Alexia said: “The Cosmological Principle assumes that the part of the universe we can see is viewed as a ‘fair sample’ of what we expect the rest of the universe to be like.
We expect matter to be evenly distributed everywhere in space when we view the universe on a large scale, so there should be no noticeable irregularities above a certain size.
“Cosmologists calculate the current theoretical size limit of structures to be 1.2 billion light-years, yet both of these structures are much larger – the Giant Arc is almost three times bigger and the Big Ring’s circumference is comparable to the Giant Arc’s length.
“From current cosmological theories we didn't think structures on this scale were possible.
We could expect maybe one exceedingly large structure in all our observable universe.
Yet, the Big Ring and the Giant Arc are two huge structures and are even cosmological neighbours, which is extraordinarily fascinating.”
The Big Ring appears as an almost perfect ring on the sky, but Alexia’s further analysis reveals that it has more of a coil shape, like a cork-screw, that is aligned face-on with Earth.
The Giant Arc, which is approximately 1/15th the radius of the observable universe, shows as an enormous, nearly symmetrical, crescent of galaxies in the remote universe.
It is twice the size of the striking Sloan Great Wall of galaxies and clusters that is seen in the relatively nearby universe.
“The Big Ring and Giant Arc are the same distance from us, near the constellation of Boötes the Herdsman, meaning they existed at the same cosmic time when the universe was only half of its present age” commented Alexia.
“They are also in the same region of sky, at only 12 degrees apart when observing the night sky.
“Identifying two extraordinary ultra-large structures in such close configuration raises the possibility that together they form an even more extraordinary cosmological system.
“This data we’re looking at is so far away that it has taken half the universe’s life to get to us, so from a time when the universe was about 1.8 times smaller than it is now.
The Big Ring and the Giant Arc, both individually and together, gives us a big cosmological mystery as we work to understand the universe and its development.”
Alexia, together with adviser Dr Roger Clowes, both from UCLan’s Jeremiah Horrocks Institute , and collaborator Gerard Williger from the University of Louisville, USA, discovered the new structure by looking at absorption lines in the spectra of quasars from the Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS).
Using the same method that led to the discovery of the Giant Arc, they observed the intervening Magnesium-II (or MgII – it means the atom has lost an electron) absorption systems back-lit by quasars, which are remote super-luminous galaxies.
These very-distant, very-bright, quasars act like giant lamps shining a spotlight through distant, but much fainter, intervening galaxies that otherwise would go unseen.
Alexia has presented her findings on the Big Ring at the 243 rd meeting of the American Astronomical Society (AAS) on the 10 January.
The AAS invites researchers with potentially ground-breaking findings to share their work with the global astronomy community.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/news/discovery-of-a-giant-arc-in-distant-space-adds-to-challenges-to-basic-assumptions-about-the-universe:
UCLan PhD student discovers a giant arc of galaxies 9.2 billion light years away
The discovery of a giant, almost symmetrical arc of galaxies more than 9.2 billion light years away has thrown into question some of the basic assumptions about the Universe.
Known as the Giant Arc, spanning 3.3 billion light years and located in the constellation of Boötes the Herdsman, its discovery, combined with other large structures that have been discovered in recent years, changes our idea of what an “average” bit of space looks like.
PhD student Alexia Lopez and adviser Roger Clowes, from the Jeremiah Horrocks Institute at the University of Central Lancashire (UCLan), together with collaborator Gerard Williger from the University of Louisville, USA, have made the discovery by looking at absorption lines in the spectra towards quasars from the Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS).
Alexia said: “The growing number of large-scale structures over the size limit of what is considered theoretically viable is becoming harder to ignore.
According to cosmologists, the current theoretical limit is calculated to be 1.2 billion light years, which makes the Giant Arc almost three times larger.
Can the standard model of cosmology account for these huge structures in the Universe as just rare flukes, or is there more to it than that?”
The Giant Arc, which is approximately 1/15 th the radius of the observable universe, shows as an enormous, nearly symmetrical, crescent of galaxies in the remote Universe.
It is twice the size of the striking Sloan Great Wall of galaxies and clusters that is seen in the nearby Universe.
This new discovery of the Giant Arc adds to an accumulating set of cautious challenges to the Cosmological Principle.
In cosmology, we expect matter to be evenly distributed across the observable space when scientists view the Universe on a large scale so there should be no noticeable irregularities.
This is based on the principle that the part of the Universe we can see is viewed as a “fair sample” of what we expect the rest of the Universe to be like.
This is known as the Cosmological Principle.
The discovery of the Giant Arc adds to the number of structures on scales larger than those thought to be “smooth” and therefore pushes the boundary size for the Cosmological Principle.
The researchers made the discovery by observing the intervening Magnesium (Mg) II absorption systems backlit by quasars, which are remote super-luminous galaxies that emit extraordinary amounts of energy and light.
Alexia added: “A quasar acts like a giant lamp shining a spotlight through other galaxies, with the light eventually reaching us here on Earth.
“We can use telescopes to measure the spectra of these quasars, which essentially tells us the journey that the quasar light has been through, and in particular where the light has been absorbed.
We can locate where the quasar light has passed through galaxies by a signature Mg II doublet feature, which is a distinctive pair of absorption lines in the spectra.
From this easily identified absorption ‘fingerprint’, we can map low luminosity matter that would usually go unseen due to its faint light emitted in comparison to the quasars.
“When viewed on such a large scale, we expect to see a statistically smooth distribution of matter across the Universe, based on the Cosmological Principle introduced by Einstein to make the maths easier, that the Universe is isotropic and homogeneous.
It means that the night sky, when viewed on a sufficiently large scale, should look the same, regardless of the observers’ locations or the directions in which they are looking.
“The Giant Arc we are seeing certainly raises more questions than answers as it may expand the notion of ‘sufficiently large’.
The key question is, what do we consider to be ‘sufficiently large’?
“We are seeing the Giant Arc now, but in reality, the data we’re looking at show the Universe as it was half its lifetime ago because the light has been en route, travelling towards, us for billions of years.
It was so long ago that the Universe at the time was about 1.8 times smaller than it is now.”
Alexia Lopez has presented her work on the Giant Arc at the 238 th virtual meeting of the American Astronomical Society, 7-9 June.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/news/free-dental-treatment-at-uclan:
People in Lancashire and South Cumbria can get complex procedures for free for a limited time
Do you need complex dental surgery and live in Lancashire or South Cumbria?
If so, for a limited time the University of Central Lancashire (UCLan) is offering free treatment at its Community Dental Clinic in Preston.
Patients who require difficult surgical procedures, such as wisdom tooth surgery or complex tooth removal, will be seen by a qualified dentist who is undertaking postgraduate master’s training to develop their oral surgery skills.
Kate Taylor, Professor in Oral Surgery at UCLan , said: “We’ve recently seen in the news that people are desperate for dental care and there are more than 4,000 patients in Lancashire who are waiting to be seen in both hospitals and dental practices.
“Our Community Dental Clinic, which is led by specialists and consultants, can accept patients who have been referred for specialist treatment and who are experiencing long delays.
“At our centre of excellence, the patients will receive free treatment for complex oral surgery and in return qualified dentists will be able to develop their skills and undertake advanced procedures using top-of-the-range facilities.”
The free procedures, which will only be conducted under local anaesthetic on Wednesdays, include:
This service is only available for a limited time to patients aged 16 and over.
To find out more and book your appointment email or call 01772 896300.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/news/the-conversation:
Read our articles on The Conversation.
It's an independent source of news and views written by academic experts and experienced journalists.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/study/academic-calendar:
Please note that the academic calendar term dates apply to most taught programmes at the University.
There will be some variation in term dates for courses with non-standard start dates.
For specific programme dates please check with your school.
Our prospective student enquiries team are happy to answer any questions you may have about studying with us - from general information, open day events and more.
If you're already a student with us and have an enquiry, please visit the Student Hub.
You'll be able to find the contacted details of all our dedicated teams.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/articles/alumni-spotlight:
All our graduates go on their own journeys after graduation.
From working in their dream careers to making a difference in their community.
Read about what some of our alumni have accomplished and how their experience with us helped them.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/about-us/history:
We have a long and proud history, which can be traced back to 1828.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/about-us/student-centre-and-university-square:
Our £60 million Student Centre and University Square is the thriving heart of our Preston Campus.
We’ve created stunning new spaces for you to explore and enjoy, a central hub for our second-to-none support services, and a gateway between the University and the city which the whole community can be proud of.
With the opening of our new Student Centre we’ve created a stunning space to provide you with support every step of your student journey.
Inside the Student Centre you’ll discover a huge range of services focused on you – from enhancing your health and wellbeing to preparing you for future success.
Every corner of the Student Centre has been carefully designed to support your wellbeing.
It’s a great space to relax, take a break and catch up with friends.
It’s also the place to go whenever you need some advice and support – whether you’ve got a quick question you need help with or you need to have a more in-depth discussion with one of our expert advisers.
Our welcoming, experienced team will be on hand to offer you sensitive and confidential support with whatever you need – from financial and careers advice to course information, accommodation assistance and support with your mental health and wellbeing.
We know that student life can be challenging sometimes.
We’re here to help you get your student life back on track and get the most out of your time with us.
Inside the Student Centre you’ll find a huge range of advice and support services and more:
The Student Centre also contains…
The Square will become the focal point of our University, located right at the heart of our Preston Campus.
It's a beautiful tree-lined space with plenty of seating where you’ll be able to relax, get together with friends, enjoy some lunch, or simply get some fresh air.
This is a space for the whole of Preston to enjoy.
In the near future students and the whole community will be able to come together to enjoy various University and public events, from our graduation ceremony celebrations to festivals and markets in summer.
We take pride in our role as a Civic University – we’re an institution which benefits the lives and prospects of the whole city and local communities.
With the opening of University Square, we are contributing to the ongoing economic regeneration of Preston and helping to improve the quality of life of its residents.
At night, the University Square really comes alive, with ‘light threads’ which create a stunning light display guiding you from the city through the campus.
If you need any help when you’re not on campus, you can contact the Student Support Team by email studentsupport@uclan.ac.uk or call 01772 891828 .
We started work on our Student Centre and University six years ago as part of our Campus Masterplan.
Since then we’ve completely transformed the heart of our Preston Campus into a vibrant space for all our students and the people of Preston to enjoy.
Over the last six years we’ve completely transformed the area around Preston’s Adelphi Quarter for the benefit of our students and the whole community.
Our Student Centre, which is 16.5 metres high, provides a striking focal point at the heart of our revitalised Preston Campus.
The Student Centre and University Square were designed by the internationally renowned and award-winning architects Hawkins\Brown.
Construction was overseen by Bowmer + Kirkland, one of the UK’s leading development companies.
Sustainability is at the core of the Student Centre’s design.
The combination of its large glass façade, solar panels, low energy lighting and the use of recycled materials creates a sense of light, space and airiness throughout.
The project achieved its objectives to draw the City and the University together, to provide a single hub for various student services, to produce a gateway to campus, and to deliver a large square for corporate and community events.
In February 2015, we unveiled our £200m Masterplan transformation project, which outlined our vision to create a world-class campus in Preston.
In May 2015, the ground around the Student Centre was cleared to enable works to begin.
In April 2016, we launched an international design competition alongside the Royal Institute of British Architects (RIBA), inviting design proposals for our new Student Centre and University Square.
In August 2016, members of the public were invited to have their say on seven shortlisted designs following the RIBA competition.
In September 2016, the winners of the RIBA design competition were announced, with the internationally renowned architects Hawkins/Brown chosen to design our Student Centre and University Square.
Preston City Council approved planning permission.
Utility works beneath the site got underway.
In June 2019, construction contractors Bowmer + Kirkland were chosen to deliver our new Student Centre and University Square.
Balfour Beatty began work on the highways scheme to transform the roads around the Student Centre site and improve the look and feel of the surrounding area.
In August 2019, Bowmer + Kirkland began construction of the Student Centre and University Square.
Major milestone achieved as construction of the Student Centre reached its highest point.
Outstanding design features such as the wooden staircase and timber flooring now in place.
A time capsule designed by pupils at Our Lady’s Catholic High School in Fulwood, Preston was planted into the foundations of the Student Centre as part of a Careers Week event led by contractor Bowmer + Kirkland.
Student Centre and University Square set to open
The Student Centre and University Square were officially opened.
Our Estates & Campus Services Team are investigating ways to improve some of the issues identified.
The opening of our Student Centre and University Square will mark the completion of our Masterplan project, which has been six years in the making.
Our vision was to create a state-of-the-art, sustainable campus which would benefit our students, staff and surrounding communities for many years to come.
This vision is about to be realised.
Six years ago we set out our ambitions to transform our Preston Campus to enable all our students to enjoy the best possible University experience, as well as strengthening our ability to make a positive contribution to local communities and the regional economy.
With the opening of University Square, we will be able to bring together the city and the University like never before, building on our close ties with the people of Preston and Lancashire, and creating brand new opportunities for individuals to realise their potential and transform their lives.
One of the first major milestones in achieving our Masterplan was the completion of our £35m Engineering Innovation Centre (EIC) in 2019.
The EIC, which sits just across from the Student Centre and University Square, brings together world-leading research, creative business minds and inspiring teaching in a spirit of collaboration and discovery.
As well as strengthening Lancashire’s position as a national centre of excellence for aerospace, advanced engineering and manufacturing, the EIC is enabling our students to work on live projects with our industry partners and helping us to achieve our vision of training a new generation of top engineering talent.
Our Masterplan project has led to the following new developments on the Preston Campus:
In addition to our Masterplan project, we have also invested in transforming the student experience on our Burnley Campus.
Key developments include the acquisition and refurbishment of the historic Victoria Mill building and the opening of new student accommodation at Sandygate Hall.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/news/vet-school-plan-given-go-ahead:
City council planners approve scheme to create state-of-the-art building
The University of Central Lancashire’s (UCLan) plan to create a purpose-built veterinary school has been given the green light by city planners.
The planning application to build a state-of-the-art four-storey building was approved with conditions by Preston City Council’s Planning Committee today, Thursday.
Located on UCLan’s Greenbank Car Park, on Victoria Street on the Preston Campus, the 45,000 square feet veterinary school will be the first of its kind in Lancashire and 11th in the UK.
The School of Veterinary Medicine is due to be completed by September 2024 and across three floors, high-specification anatomical skills laboratories will be created alongside simulated clinical facilities including a pharmacy, diagnostic suite, and simulated operating theatres.
A microscopy laboratory and dental room will also be built alongside a variety of teaching rooms and office spaces.
In addition, the project will also see a refurbishment of a ground floor section of Greenbank Building.
It will include kennel facilities, simulated consultation rooms and a rehabilitation suite in addition to other veterinary teaching and clinical skills’ facilities.
It will provide a hub for undergraduate and postgraduate course students and staff in veterinary medicine , bioveterinary science , veterinary clinical practice, veterinary physiotherapy and rehabilitation, and clinical animal behaviour and training.
Dr Heather Bacon OBE , Head of UCLan’s School of Veterinary Medicine, said: "We’re delighted Preston City Council has approved our state-of-the-art plan so we can now start working on creating our technologically advanced veterinary school.
Our new School of Veterinary Medicine will play a major role in developing the veterinary practitioners and leaders of the future and supporting economic growth in the north.
“We’re incredibly excited to open the first Vet School in Lancashire, which will offer students purpose-built training facilities and the highest of education and professional standards.”
Sarah Myers, Senior Planner in Cushman & Wakefield’s Planning, Development & Strategic Advisory team, who led the planning application, said: “We are delighted to secure planning permission for UCLan's School of Veterinary Medicine.
This significant investment will be a real asset to the region.
It's been a pleasure supporting UCLan throughout the process and we look forward to seeing construction work begin next year."
Alan Williams, Partner at Wilson Mason LLP, added: “It is pleasing to see this sustainable project that will add to UCLan’s ability to add social benefit to the Lancashire and beyond gain planning permission.”
The new development aims to achieve sufficient credits for the building to qualify for a BREEAM Excellent rating.
*Photo credit to Wilson Mason LLP

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/values-and-initiatives:
We aim to create positive change in our students, staff, business partners and wider communities.
Find out about our values and initiatives below.
We provide activities for school and college students of all ages.
We can also provide teacher training, and a dedicated contact to help you work through the year to build up a tailored programme of engagement to support you and your students.
The Young Scientist Centre (YSC) is a partnership between the University and the Royal Institution (Ri).
Our engaging and practical workshops aim to inspire the scientists and engineers of the future.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/people/board-of-governors:
The University Board is the governing body of the University of Central Lancashire.
Its business is conducted in accordance with the Instrument and Articles of Government detailed below.
It delegates certain parts of its responsibilities to Committees which are serviced and supported by the Clerk to the Board.
Anne McCarthy is the founder of Anne McCarthy Associates, where she works with clients to share her experience of change and leadership.
She is head tutor of the Oxford executive leadership programme and chair of the University of Central Lancashire.
Prior to starting her own enterprise, Anne worked for Royal Mail, where she held the roles of HR director and group learning and development director.
She was responsible for delivering major change.
She played a key role in modernising Royal Mail operations, contributed to the successful privatisation, and led the development of a people strategy to underpin the new commercial era of the company.
A consultant, coach and educator, Anne is now sharing her expertise across a broad range of business and not-for-profit organisations.
Jon runs his own business consulting practice and is currently working with EdTech start ups and with Worktribe in a business development capacity.
Prior to that, as UK executive lead for Jisc’s Higher Education Division, Jon led the higher education (HE) member engagement with the account management team, and the development and coordination of Jisc’s HE strategy and its implementation.
This included engaging with senior sector stakeholders and, internally, working closely with product executive directors to ensure Jisc meets sector needs.
Between 2013­-2019 Jon worked for theTribal Group as MD HE having joined from Murdoch University in Perth, Western Australia, where he was the Deputy Vice Chancellor.
Jon was registrar/secretary at both the University of Manchester Institute of Science and Technology (UMIST) and at the University of Warwick and has also held management, teaching and administration posts at the University of Wolverhampton, Queen Margaret College, Edinburgh and Lancashire Polytechnic, as well as teaching at the Open University and in further education.
He has also published papers and articles on a wide range of education-related topics.
Jim has had a long career in property and construction.
He has a law degree, is a Chartered Surveyor and retired in December 2024 as Deputy Chairman of Eric Wright Group Ltd after 38 years with the company.
He is a former trustee of The University College of Estate Management and is an Honorary Fellow.
He has been appointed High Sheriff of Lancashire for the year 2025/2026.
A trustee of Chorley Youth Zone from its conception until his term of office came to an end in January 2025.
Jim remains involved and is passionate about the development of young people.
He sits on the Employment Advisory Board at HMP Lancaster Farms and is a Deputy Lieutenant for Lancashire.
Richard Frediani is Editor of BBC Breakfast; the UK’s most watched morning programme.
Richard – better known as ‘Fredi’ – has been in charge since just before the 2019 General Election.
The programme is produced and presented from Media City and watched by around 10 million viewers every week.
During his time in charge the programme has made headlines with exclusive coverage including Rob Burrow’s high-profile campaign to raise awareness about Motor Neurone Disease and Marcus Rashford’s campaign on free school meals.
The latter won BBC Breakfast its first national Royal Television Society Award in 2021 for ‘Scoop of the Year’.
Richard has been a journalist for 33 years having graduated from Lancashire Polytechnic in 1990 with a Postgraduate Diploma in Broadcast Journalism and starting his career at Red Rose Radio in Preston.
Before moving into Production, he travelled the world including going to Iraq during the second Gulf War in 2003 and Japan and South Korea for the 2022 World Cup.
He went on to roles as Programme Editor of ITV News at 6.30pm and ITV News at Ten.
He was also Editor of Granada Reports from 2004 to 2012 where the programme won a BAFTA in 2007 for coverage of the Morecambe Bay cockling tragedy – the first Regional News programme to achieve that honour.
But most of all, Fredi is a proud Prestonian.
His parents Umberto and Aideen ran a famous fish and chip shop in Preston for almost 50 years, where Richard would regularly help out from an early age.
Richard has lived in the city and surrounding area his entire life, along with his wife Yvonne and three children Isabel, Dominic and Madeline.
He is a regular at Deepdale, dreaming, one day, of Premier League football for Preston North End.
Richard was Group CEO at the University during 2014-15, focussing on our international agenda.
He brings a wealth of senior experience in global businesses, having spent most of his 40-year career in shipping.
He began as a labourer in a Scottish shipyard before rising to board level positions in several major companies.
Richard was a director of John Swire (Hong Kong) Limited from 1999-2000, Deputy Chairman and CEO of Pacific Basin Shipping Limited (2005-2009), and Chairman of Univan Ship Management Limited (2010-2015).
In addition to his University role, Richard currently holds non-executive director roles at Swire’s China Navigation Company and Anglo Eastern Univan.
He is also Executive Chairman of Vanmar Shipping and a member of the Stanford University GSB Advisory Board in Hong Kong.
Dr Victoria Hutchinson is Director of the Environment Practice; a part of AtkinsRéalis that brings together social, environmental and economic experts to respond to challenges ranging from the climate crisis and delivering a low carbon future, to shaping how social value is created through buildings, infrastructure and the green spaces between them.
At the start of her career, following the completion of her PhD, Victoria spent 9 years working in the HE sector.
She is passionate about the role of education in creating opportunities for individuals, communities and for the region, believing that one of our regional priorities should be skills and education for all, and then retaining that talent within the region.
She is former Head of Social Value for major contractor, ISG, and has driven business change around community engagement from individual local activities on local projects, to business-level social value strategy design and implementation.
She is currently responsible for creating the vision and strategy for AtkinsRealis Environment practice, and has grown the business by 50% in 3 years.
On a day-to-day basis, she is responsible for the operational performance of the practice, including the commercial and people components of performance, and the approach to markets and growth.
She sits as part of a Senior Leadership Team of the Infrastructure Division, and is also Global Capability Lead for Environment.
Lesley is an experienced Chair, NED and Portfolio CMO with more than three decades of expertise in driving strategic business growth and performance for listed and private enterprises across industries, including significant international experience.
Her formative career was spent with global FMCG and Pharmaceutical organisations, including RHM Foods, Bristol Myers and Roche, managing a total of 20 brands over this period, including the launch of six new brands that each became number one in their sector.
Then as a strategy consultant with PwC, Lesley delivered Board-level corporate strategy and marketing engagements for leading telecommunications, technology, media, financial services, oil and gas clients working across the globe.
More recently as an interim CMO, she is working with B2B/B2C industry leaders and niche brands across a wide range of sectors/geographies, to improve standards of professionalism and productivity.
Lesley is also an experienced Chair/NED.
She provides rigorous oversight and advice on corporate strategy, ESG (Environmental, Social, Governance), risk management and marketing.
She is also a mentor to CEO’s, CMO’s, students, graduates and senior executives with board aspirations.
She is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Marketing (FCIM) and a Freeman – Honourable Company of Marketors, City of London Livery Company.
Lorraine has extensive experience working in both the public and private sector.
She was a senior manager in local government for over 20 years and most recently was the Chief Executive of Preston City Council for nine years.
During her time at Preston City Council she worked with elected members to develop their approach to social value and fairness, often referred to as the Preston Model.
As Director of Corporate Services at Preston City Council, Lorraine was the Monitoring Officer – a statutory role within a local authority, with responsibility for all aspects of governance.
Lorraine is experienced in forming relationships and building partnerships with people from a wide range of organisations and has good working knowledge of the public sector, including local government, the health service and other community-based services.
During her career she has worked co-operatively with other Local Authorities, the Lancashire Enterprise Partnership, Royal Preston Hospital and the Greater Preston Clinical Commissioning Group (CCG).
She has a strong track record of delivering projects with the private sector.
In her early career Lorraine worked as a social worker for Bolton Metropolitan Council and taught for a short period at Runshaw College.
She later qualified as a solicitor in private practice before returning to the public sector in Salford, specialising in public child care law.
Lorraine retired from her role as Chief Executive in 2018 and has since worked as a consultant.
She is a Trustee at St Catherine’s Hospice and a member of The Friends of Worden park Leyland.
In her free time she enjoys walking, reading and the theatre.
Fiona Rayment enjoys a plural career covering nuclear advisory and non-executive director roles, and has dedicated decades to the nuclear sector with extensive strategic and operational experience.
She is a chartered chemist and engineer with a PhD in chemistry from University of Strathclyde, Glasgow.
She is a fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering, the Royal Society of Chemistry and of the UK Nuclear Institute.
She has an MBA from Manchester Business School.
Fiona has recently served as a member of Euratom’s Science and Technology Committee, the Idaho National Laboratory's Nuclear Science and Technology Advisory Committee, the American Nuclear Society Board and was the first chair of the UK’s Nuclear Skills Strategy Group.
Her current roles across the sector include being an advisor to the CEO of the National Nuclear Laboratory and the Office of Nuclear Regulation Chief Nuclear Inspector’s Independent Advisory Panel.
Fiona is Chair of the Scientific Advisory Committee of the Energy Division at CEA - the French Alternative Energies and Atomic Energy Commission, a Non-Executive Member of the UK Space Agency Steering Board, Patron of Women in Nuclear UK and President Elect of the UK Nuclear Institute.
In addition Fiona is a vice chair of the Nuclear Energy Agency’s Steering Committee Bureau and Policy Director of the Generation IV International Forum.
Fiona has long advocated widening participation in science and engineering and champions our sector- leading approach to diversity and inclusion.
She was awarded an OBE in 2017 and the French Légion d’Honneur in 2020.
With a passion for improving the well-being of others and tackling inequalities, Khalil has spent his career at the intersections of finance, social impact and innovation across the private, public and voluntary sectors.
He brings significant board and corporate governance experience alongside a sense of curiosity, inclusivity and compassion.
His recent background, is Director of Finance & Digital transformation at an award winning regional mental health services charity and before this as a Chief Executive of an international healthcare NGO, delivering public health and global healthcare services across Africa and South Asia and other developing countries.
He has been a Director of Finance & IT of a leading North West based social care charity.
Prior to this, he spent 10 years in investment banking in Mergers & Acquisitions and corporate finance advisory roles, followed by a stint in academia at one of the world’s top universities as a Research Fellow in social care and disabilities and Lecturer in urban regeneration.
He has a continued interest in tertiary level education through his global work and post graduate teaching.
He studied at undergraduate and postgraduate level at UCL, followed by executive education at Harvard (Global Health) and INSEAD Business School.
Based in the North West, he has actively worked with local communities over the years.
He is currently a Non-Executive director at Salix Homes based in Salford, Non-Executive director and Chair of Audit at East Lancashire Hospitals NHS Trust, Chair of Audit at Leeds Community Healthcare NHS Trust.
Rachel has a passion for people and how they can achieve their full potential.
She is an experienced, qualified business and leadership coach with over 25 years coaching experience.
Having a background in Local Government, working for many Local Authorities across the North West, Rachel decided in 2011 to leave and establish RVR Consulting.
This was an exciting time of opportunity and hard work as parts of her life aligned.
While building the people development and coaching business she had the opportunity to return to academia.
Rachel took her professional practice experience, skills and knowledge into working for a number of years as a Senior Lecturer in HR at Liverpool John Moores University.
This academic environment also gave her the momentum to achieve, in 2017, her own life ambition of a Doctorate in Executive Coaching at University of Chester.
With the coaching business now thriving, Rachel decided to dedicate herself to it full time with clients in public and private sectors and internationally spread as far as USA and Iran - life was full and busy.
Time has always been created to share her passion for people and organisational development and as a Chartered Fellow of CIPD, and a member of European Mentoring and Coaching Council, she accepted opportunities to be a guest speaker and deliver workshops to share her knowledge and skills widely.
Rachel remains a Company Director for the company, now trading as The Conversation Company.
However, she proudly passed the ownership to her daughter, Christine McDonald in 2023.
While Rachel maintains a select portfolio of high-profile coaching clients, this change gives her time for her areas of interest and passion, on a voluntary basis to support organisations in an advisory or governance roles.
Lindsay is a principal lecturer and academic lead for our Higher and Degree Apprenticeship programmes delivered across the health and social care sector.
With a focus on work-based learning, she works collaboratively with our employer partners and academic teams to support learners develop the knowledge and skills required for their career in the workplace.
Lis started her working life as a research chemist, working in universities with industry and the public sector.
Whilst working at UMIST, she also became involved in education and training, developing a passion for education, skills and learning which has driven her professional career.
Time at Salford University provided opportunities to further education and learning within industry and be part of the developing academic enterprise.
A further seven years at the Northwest Regional Development Agency provided an understanding of the role of skills and employment within regional economic growth, along with the opportunity to lead on skills and employment for the nine RDAs with Government.
Most recently, Lis was the Chief Executive and Principal of Preston College, delivering technical and vocational education and training to local young people and adults.
She has served on several national and regional boards and steering committees, and since retiring, sits on the UCLan Board.
If you require further information about the work of the Board, please email the Deputy Clerk to the Board, Fiona Winters, or telephone +44 (0)1772 89 4002 .

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/legal/companies-and-trusts:
The University has the following companies and trusts.
Training 2000 Limited
Westlakes Research Limited
University of Lancashire Resources Limited
Centralan Holdings Limited
UCLan Business Services Limited
University of Lancashire Community Dentists Limited
UCLan Technology (Shenzhen) Limited
UCLan (Overseas) Limited
UCLan (HK) Limited
Trustees of the Group Death in Service Scheme
Trustees
Secretary
The Trustees of this Group meet once a year.
For further information and dates of meetings contact: Fiona Winters

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/business/archive/energy:
Our MaCaW project is an academic/industry collaboration designed to assist Lancashire SMEs in overcoming the challenges and barriers in moving towards a low carbon economic model.
We work with you and your business to implement low energy practices and processes to reduce your carbon burden as well as making cost savings.
The project is funded by the European Regional Development Fund and delivered by the University of Central Lancashire.
We collaborate with you on the following:
We work with SMEs across sectors to identify and prioritise opportunities to improve energy performance.
This is achieved through:
In integrating Life Cycle Thinking (LCT) with the Green House Gas Protocol, we assist you to manage and report your emissions effectively.
This will help Lancashire to reduce its overall carbon emissions and contribute to the UK carbon target.
We work with businesses who are Located in the Lancashire region, employ 250 employees or less and either have an annual turnover that is equal to or less than 50million Euros or a balance sheet total that is equal to or less than 43million Euros
As the government funding for this project ended on 30 June 2023 please visit the Centre for Waste Management page for more information.
For any other support for your business please contact our Business Enquiries Team or call us on +44 (0) 1772 895500 .
This support could be related to your research, development, training and consultancy needs.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/business/archive/eco-i-north-west-project:
Eco-I NW is a £14m business Research and Development (R&D) programme which will support small and medium-sized businesses (SMEs) across the North West (Cumbria, Lancashire, Manchester, Merseyside and Cheshire and Warrington).
Eco-I NW follows 8 years of award winning and successful collaborative R&D activities.
It is delivered by a consortium of universities; Lancaster, Central Lancashire, Cumbria, Liverpool, Liverpool John Moores and Manchester Metropolitan.
Eco-I NW is here to support SMEs as they undertake low carbon business innovations across the region.
Through Eco-I NW we seek to support low carbon business innovations across the region, including the areas of Cumbria and Lancashire.
Eco-I NW is part-funded by the European Regional Development Fund.
As one of the partner universities in this initiative, we will be supporting SMEs to design and run research and innovation projects.
These will support the development of new products and processes, reduce costs of product production and reduce carbon emissions.
We are not led by specific technologies or area of research, but instead are driven by business needs and will facilitate a collaborative approach to problem solving.
Our approach is to talk with companies and uncover their challenge areas and provide support for their particular needs.
This can often mean supporting the development of a new product or service, exploring an innovative technology or expanding understanding to allow new markets to be reached.
The programme also includes a focused blend of business leadership development, workshops which support the research projects, as well as providing networking and exposure to a range of collaborative support opportunities.
12 Month Masters by Research
A dedicated full time researcher to work on your project at Masters level, supported by our academics, with access to our global contacts and resources within the university.
Internships 140 hrs
A dedicated programme of support delivered by an appropriate student matched to your business need funded to work on your project supported by an academic, or team of academics.
3 Month Innovation Project
Working with a specialist academic who has expertise in the area to support your business’s innovation idea.
They will work collaboratively with your business for 3 months to develop opportunities and innovation that will not only help to reduce your carbon footprint but could support your company’s growth in the existing market or help enter new markets.
Please get in touch with us for further information and business enquiries.
Email: wastemanagement@uclan.ac.uk, or call: 01772 894324

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/about-us/sustainability/un-sdg:
The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are a comprehensive framework designed to address global challenges.
The goals aim to foster cooperation, guiding society towards a more sustainable and equitable future by 2030.
Through their integrated approach, the goals aim to tackle the root causes of inequality, environmental degradation, and social injustice.
The goals promote a holistic vision for development that leaves no one behind.
Adopted in 2015, we are now over halfway through the agreed timescales, but the world remains a long way from achieving these goals.
In the Times Higher Education Impact Rankings , we ranked joint top for our overall score amongst the MillionPlus universities.
We are the only MillionPlus university to return against all 17 Sustainable Development Goals.
Staff and students at University of Central Lancashire can support the delivery of the Sustainable Development Goals.
This can be achieved through our teaching, research and operations.
Our Strategic Plan 2021 to 2028, and associated sub- and enabling strategies, show our institutional commitment to sustainability going forward.
New buildings prioritise energy efficiency and low running costs, aiming for a BREEAM 'Excellent' (Education) classification.
For major refurbishments, we aim for a BREEAM 'Very Good' (Education) classification.
This includes the feasibility of incorporating renewable technologies.
Eradicating extreme poverty for all people everywhere by 2030 is a pivotal goal of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture.
Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages.
Achieving universal health coverage, and providing access to safe and affordable medicines and vaccines for all.
Our world-leading research in stroke care, maternity care and infant nutrition contributes to this goal.
We ranked 6th in the UK in the Times Higher Education Impact Rankings for this goal.
Promote inclusive and equitable quality education.
Ensure lifelong learning opportunities for all, enabling free primary and secondary schooling for all boys and girls by 2030.
Provide equal access to affordable vocational training.
Eliminate gender and wealth disparities, and achieve universal access to quality higher education.
We ranked in the top ten in the UK in the Times Higher Education Impact Rankings for this goal.
Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls.
Gender equality is a cross-cutting objective and must be a key focus of national policies, budgets and institutions.
Ensure access to water and sanitation for all.
Ensuring that everyone has access to sustainable water and sanitation services is a critical climate change mitigation strategy for the years ahead.
Guarantee access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy.
Ensuring access to clean and affordable energy, which is key to the development of agriculture, business, communications, education, healthcare and transportation.
Promote inclusive and sustainable economic growth, employment and decent work for all.
Implementing adequate health and safety measures and promoting supportive working environments.
Build resilient infrastructure, promote sustainable industrialization and foster innovation.
Economic growth, social development and climate action are heavily dependent on investments in infrastructure, sustainable industrial development and technological progress.
Reduce inequality within and among countries.
We cannot achieve sustainable development and make the planet better for all if people are excluded from the chance for a better life.
Our innovative and inclusive teaching environment helps open university education open to wider communities, contributing to this goal.
Make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable.
Sustainable development cannot be achieved without significantly transforming the way urban spaces are built and managed.
Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns.
Ensuring sustainable consumption and production patterns, which is key to sustain the livelihoods of current and future generations.
Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts.
Every person, in every country in every continent will be impacted in some shape or form by climate change.
Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources.
Healthy oceans and seas are essential to human existence and life on Earth.
Sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, halt and reverse land degradation, halt biodiversity loss.
Conserving life on land, protecting and restoring terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably managing forests, combatting desertification, halting and reversing land degradation and stopping biodiversity loss.
Promote just, peaceful and inclusive societies.
Promoting peaceful and inclusive societies, providing access to justice for all and building effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels.
Revitalise the global partnership for sustainable development.
A call for action by all countries – developed and developing – to ensure no one is left behind, requiring partnerships between governments, the private sector, and civil society.
We ranked in the top 100 in the UK in the Times Higher Education Impact Rankings .
This highlights our commitment to addressing challenges within the Sustainable Development Goals.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/study/fees-and-finance/bursaries-and-scholarships/sanctuary:
Scholarship applicants do not have to have received an offer to apply but will need to be enrolled to receive it.
Please complete the application form to apply for this scholarship.
Please email us if you have any queries or issues.
The right to study in the UK and current immigration status can be described as one of the following:
Our Sanctuary Scholarship is now closed for applications for 2024-25.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/academics/professor-karl-williams:
Karl has seen his career evolve from heavy industry into environmental solutions for waste and resource management.
He has extensive experience of a range of technologies associated with resource recovery.
As a Chartered Waste Manager, he has detailed knowledge of the technical, legislative and financial implications of converting waste into valuable commodities.
A Charted Engineer for over 25 years he has developed bespoke technical solutions for a range of materials.
He has lead research projects in the following areas: life cycle thinking; environmental, economic and cultural barriers to waste management, waste strategies and social attitudes to resource management.
Karl has been a proactive and strategic leader of the Centre for Waste Management since 2008, positioning the Centre within the wider context of the School/Faculty.
His understanding of the requirements of industry, having worked both in an industrial and academic capacity, has challenged industry’s perceptions of universities as being unresponsive and detached from the real world needs of industry.
He currently leads several innovation activities and commercial research projects, and have continued to build relationships with significant partners over the years with both the private and public sector.
You can view these projects through the following link.
Karl teaches across a range of environmental subjects and is the course leader for the MSc Resource Energy and Environmental Management.
His industrial links has allowed him to engage with businesses in the development of innovative short courses.
This has improved the quality and ensured the success of modules specific for industry.
Karl has been an invited speaker to a number of conferences and seminars both within the UK and abroad on business partnerships and collaborations.
These have added to the university’s reputation and has promoted industrial partnership with whom he has been involved.
Karl has demonstrated the advantages for businesses to engage with the university and to realise the benefit of support university.
This is especially true for businesses to meet their environmental claims and their commitment to continue improvement.
Karl has appeared on several radio programmes including BBC Radio 4 Shared Planet with Monty Don with an audience of several million around the globe.
He has been asked to give his view and opinion on various waste and resource issues for a number of radio stations including local stations, BBC Radio Lancashire as well as BBC Radio 4 World at One and You and Yours: all of which cover a large national audience.
Karl was a guest presenter for BBC Radio 4 Costing the Earth with Tom Heap.
Karl went with Tom from his house to various recycling facilities to show what really happens to our waste.
Karl has also appeared on Sky News and Northwest Tonight with again a significant audience.
Karl has taken part in two TV panel debates for TRTworld Aired Sky TV (Channel 516) these were “REFILL AND REUSE: Can it work?” and “WORLD WASTE CRISIS: Is there any point in recycling?”.
Karl leads two regional projects which engage with the small to medium size enterprises (SME) community to improve carbon efficiency within their organisations and products.
These projects support the UK’s carbon reduction commitment and the UK’s Industrial Strategy
Telephone: +44 (0) 1772 893496
Email: Email: Professor Karl Williams

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/research/institutes/ineti/centre-for-waste-management:
The Centre for Waste Management (CWM) was established in 2002 to provide a focus for existing waste/environmental research, consultancy and course provision at the University of Central Lancashire.
We are committed to the management of waste and developing resource efficiency to create a positive impact on the many associated environmental and commercial issues.
The Centre is research active and works on many topical areas of interest.
Alongside this, we have also developed a series of courses to help you plan your professional development.
We can offer advice and supporting materials that you may find very useful.
The Centre for Waste Management provides a focus for existing waste/environmental research and course provision at the University of Central Lancashire.
Our staff are highly qualified and have expertise in their chosen field.
They are experienced in working with the public and private sectors.
We provide internationally recognised formal postgraduate qualifications in addition to business-focused short courses and bespoke training.
UCLan has provided postgraduate waste management courses since 1991 and has produced graduates from all over the world.
Our graduates are now working both in the UK and overseas in senior positions in waste operation and regulation within the private, statutory and voluntary sectors.
Others are developing successful careers in related fields of environmental management and industry.
Areas of Expertise:
The vision for the Centre for Waste Management is to become the recognised regional centre for research and development on waste, environmental management and pollution control.
The objectives of the Centre for Waste Management are to:
Resource Efficiency Fund
Coordinated through the Resource Efficiency Fund, which will help at least 300 firms save money and resources by tackling the barriers that business owners face in reducing costs related to energy, water and waste.
Our Centre for Waste Management team will contribute to businesses to save nearly £500,000, 1 million kWh of energy, and over 3,000 tonnes of carbon a year, while also helping us in our aim to be a zero-carbon energy economy by 2036.
To find out more information, please visit the West Yorkshire Combined Authority Resource Efficiency Fund page
Improving Glasgow’s Recycling Levels Through Training
The Centre for Waste Management is working with Glasgow City Council to provide customised recycling training to Glasgow City Council's public refuse collection teams.
The primary aim of the training was to improve the recycling levels within the Glasgow City Council area.
The courses are being delivered across the city’s three depots throughout 2024/25, starting at the Dawsholm Recycling Centre in the west and extending to two other Recycling Centres as the year progresses.
To find out more, please read the Glasgow City Council customised recycling training article
WASTECOSMART - Optimisation of Integrated Solid Waste Management Strategies for the Maximisation of Resource Efficiency.
For the project, six research-driven triple helix clusters (science, industry and public sector) were formed in Paphos (CY), Central Hungary, Piedmont (IT), Amsterdam (NL), Stockholm (SE) and Liverpool City Region (UK).
Collaboration with international partners from Brazil, Mexico and India to promote opportunities in waste management.
The overall objective was to strengthen and increase the innovation capacity of regional research-driven clusters in resource efficiency.
The objectives were achieved through cooperation, research and technological development within the waste sectors of the participating partners.
The EU-funded project ILLUMINATE (Automated sorting and recycling of waste lamps) developed methods and processes for the collection and sorting of lighting waste.
Project researchers created a multisensory system that automatically sorts bulbs into different classes and removes foreign objects.
The device combined machine-based recognition techniques with sensors that recognise weight, colour and shape in order to identify different types of bulbs in the waste stream.
The EwasteR Consortium is composed of 13 organisations from four different countries – Cyprus, Italy, Poland and the United Kingdom.
The overall goal of the EwasteR Project is to develop and establish a new high-quality interdisciplinary curriculum for the E-Waste Recycling and Re-Use management sector in Europe.
The initiative increased the potential of employability and mobility among entrepreneurs undertaking the developed course.
Equestrian Surface planned to produce a commercially viable product from a complicated waste stream, waste carpets.
The partnership included an extensive analysis on the post-consumer carpets and identifying the nature of the available polymer matrix.
This was followed by the development of a viable manufacturing injection moulding machine used to produce a modular foundation system for equine arenas.
As part of a Knowledge Transfer Partnership between Recycling Lives and UCLan, funded by Innovate UK.
A two-year study was undertaken into how ASR (auto-shredder residue) could be diverted from landfill.
The ASR is a result of shredding, sorting and separating large volumes of waste and comprises of foams, rubber, fibres, textiles and other non-commercial recyclable materials.
A process has been created that transforms the residue into electrical energy, creating a full closed-loop recycling solution on-site and significantly reducing the amount of waste sent to landfill.
Khodier, Ala, Williams, Karl S and Dallison, Neil (2017) Waste Management .
ISSN 0956-053X Challenges around automotive shredder residue production and disposal.
Khodier, Ala, Williams, Karl S and Dallison, Neil (2018) In: 7th International Conference on Energy and Sustainability, 20-22 September 2017, Seville, Spain.
Pilot-scale thermal treatment of automotive shredder residue: Pyrolysis char is a resource or waste.
Making Carbon Work (MaCaW)
MaCaW project is an academic/industry collaboration designed to assist Lancashire SMEs in overcoming the challenges and barriers in moving towards a low carbon economic model.
To learn more about this project, please visit the Making Carbon Work (MaCaW) page
ECO-I North West
The ECO-I North West Project, part-funded by the European Regional Development Fund, was a £14m business Research and Development (R&D) programme that supported small and medium-sized businesses (SMEs) across the North West (Cumbria, Lancashire, Manchester, Merseyside and Cheshire and Warrington).
ECO-I was delivered by a consortium of universities; Lancaster, Central Lancashire, Cumbria, Liverpool, Liverpool John Moores and Manchester Metropolitan.
To learn more about this project, please visit the ECO-I North West page
Waste management is an important and fast moving industry, vital to any nation's health, environment and economic wellbeing.
This programme of courses was developed in close consultation with professional bodies within the waste industry, and seeks to meet their current and future needs.
Masters courses available – Full-time and part-time courses starting January and September in the following areas:
CIWM Construction Waste Awareness
The course covers all of the basic waste issues of the standard WAC course.
In addition, the material has been tailored to the construction/demolition industry where appropriate and includes additional related material.
CIWM Waste Awareness
The Waste Awareness Certificate is an initiative from the Chartered Institution of Wastes Management (CIWM).
The CIWM Waste Awareness Certificate has been designed for all employees and not just those who may have a direct responsibility for dealing with waste.
It is therefore suitable for staff at all levels and across all sections of an organisation, whether they are involved in a manufacturing, retail or a service process.
CIWM Healthcare Awareness
The CIWM’s new version of the Waste Awareness Certificate for those working within the healthcare industry is now available.
Building on the standard version of the Waste Awareness Certificate, this new version contextualises the main principles of the course into the healthcare sector where appropriate.
Food & Drink Industry Resource Solutions
This is a unique series of training workshops for the food and drink manufacturing industry from the University of Central Lancashire.
Developed with the assistance of the industry, workshops address shortfalls in current training provisions and focus on waste and associated legislation, new technologies and resource efficiency.
Individual workshops can be undertaken as part of any CPD programme.
However, an additional feature which bridges the gap between workplace learning and academic qualifications has been developed.
On completion of 10 workshops a portfolio can be submitted in order to gain a certificate.
These 20 credit certificates counts as a level 4 module towards a degree programme.
Waste Resource Optimisation in Food Processing
This Certificate’s programme is primarily geared towards those in the food industry who want to obtain a combined knowledge of food industry waste and resource solutions.
It is designed to enhance your career prospects by the application of scientific expertise to practical, business and managerial situations, and the understanding, implementation and response to rapidly evolving policies, interventions and market opportunities.
Constructing Solutions for the Low Carbon Economy
With the aid of all relevant sectors of the industry, the University of Central Lancashire has developed a series of dynamic workshops that will enhance the continuing professional development, and employment opportunities of personnel employed in the field of engineering construction, focusing on the low carbon economy.
Each workshop will be aimed at a different aspect of the knowledge required to make an informed judgement and ensure the suitability of a particular technology as a solution to the identified need.
Recycling Managers Training Course
This course is primarily aimed at resource efficiency and optimisation within local authorities.
Toolbox Talks
Our 20-minute Toolbox Talks are designed as a versatile resource to enhance the skills of engineers and increase recycling uptake.
Accessible at any time during their day, they offer a valuable option for individuals navigating a busy work environment.
Application for CPD courses should be made directly to the Centre for Waste Management: Courses are run subject to demand and a minimum number of attendees.
School of Forensic and Applied Science Kirkham Building KM110 University of Central Lancashire Preston PR1 2HE Tel: +44 (0) 1772 893963 or email Centre for Waste Management
Post-Doc Researcher
PhD Students
The University of Central Lancashire, alongside our UK and French partners are developing a draining cast-in-place concrete pavement based on shellfish co-products, with low environmental impact and significant drainage properties.
Find out more about this project

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/research/institutes/pact/centre-for-sustainable-transitions:
The Research Centre for Sustainable Transitions (CST) brings together engineers, social scientists, architects and psychologists to address the challenges of climate change.
Using the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals we explore the challenges that contemporary modern societies face, trying to understand the systemic changes required to meet these challenges and transformations.
We explore changes brought about by Brexit, climate-related instability and associated environmental issues; questions surrounding energy demand, generation and supply, the zero-carbon agenda and its potential impact on the health and wellbeing of communities; society’s ability to predict and respond to potential future scenarios and uncertainties such as climate-induced disasters.
To find out more please contact Professor Champika Liyanage

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/research/institutes/pact/centre-for-global-dev:
The UCLan Research Centre for Global Development brings together researchers from all subject areas to develop robust and equitable research partnerships that will address major challenges to society.
Working with international partners and communities, we uphold the values of fairness, respect, care and honesty and are closely aligned to the United Nations UN 2030 Sustainable Development Goals .
A key commitment of this agenda is to " leave no one behind ", meaning that the needs of those most marginalised and disadvantaged will be prioritised.
C4Globe has three main objectives:
C4Globe has 3 key research themes
The C4Globe is part of the PACT Institute for planetary resilience and community transformations and connects the following existing groups:
The following steering committee members are passionate about the research undertaken in the Centre; find out more about them and what they hope can be achieved:
Biofortification with Zinc and Iron for Eliminating Deficiency (BIZIFED): The first effectiveness study of the impact of consuming zinc biofortified wheat in Pakistan.
Follow the BIZIFED link for further details and research findings.
Improving community engagement with COVID-19 public health messages in hard-to-reach communities: Our study helped to overcome cultural barriers to communicating public health and safety guidance and facilitated access to clean water during the pandemic in rural communities in Pakistan.
Pro-active Pandemic Crisis Ethics and Integrity Framework (PREPARED) : Developing a moral framework for accelerated research during global crisis.
Leaving no one behind in Research: Wellcome Trust funded Africa - UK collaboration, which seeks to rethink the concept of vulnerability to increase the inclusion of marginalised groups in research.
2022-2023
Exploring community experiences of Energy Poverty in Lancashire and the role of renewable energy for social impact mitigation.
M Unuigbe.
TRANSFER: TRANsitional Spaces: Learning From the Experiences of Ukrainian Refugees.
C Campodonico .
Co-development of a Smartphone Application to Report Breaches to the Marketing CODE of Formula Milk and Infant Foods Advertising in Mexico.
M Ceballos Rasgado.
Promoting positive dietary behaviour in children in North India using an incentive mechanism approach: An exploration of stakeholders’ perceptions.
S Gupta .
Stories across the globe: children’s stories for learning about climate change.
B Walley .
Improving postharvest management practices and food safety of indigenous fruits and vegetables in low-income communities in Zimbabwe.
S Nyarugwe .
2021-2022
Freedom of Expression and Justice Systems in Nigeria: Examining the implication of recent government crackdown on free press and social media.
Allwell Uwazuruike .
News report.
Freedom of expression and justice systems in Nigeria
Investigating food safety and hygiene practices and the food security status in Nigeria - Case of Nsukka Local Government Area.
I Ukonu.
Contribution of indigenous (wild harvested) fruits and vegetables to food and nutrition security of the rural households in low-income communities in Zimbabwe.
Exploring the acceptability of a menstrual hygiene product and training intervention with adolescent girls in Pakistan.
V Moran .
Food Insecurity: The Adolescent Experience in Rural Pakistan.
A Brazier.
Improving stroke care in India.
Stroke animation.
S Jones
Stroke Awareness-English – UCLan Global Health Research
Stroke Awareness-Punjabi - UCLan Global Health Research
2020-2021
When Food runs Scarce: Interrogating the lived experiences of fishing communities in Senegal.
Fazila Bhimji and Allwell Uwazuruike .
Understanding/Uncovering and Overcoming Stigma associated with knee pain in SE Asia.
Jim Richards.
Exploring women’s experiences of having a small for gestational age (SGA) baby in Pakistan V Moran , M Ceballos Rasgado, C Caruso and M Adams.
Objects in Transit(ion): From the Ordinary to the Extraordinary.
A Zemanek, MC Balaam ,A Moreno, M Ikoniadou and C Hunt.
Developing antenatal care interventions to reduce the prevalence of anaemia among pregnant women in Ghana: A pump priming study.
H Otete , V Moran , and N Lowe .
2019-2020
PEP: Promoting Equitable relationships in identifying community-driven research Priorities.
Research and communication opportunities around agroecosystems approach to sustainable food production in LMICs.
C Liyanage and H Ohly.
Micronutrient bioavailability impacts on selection and differential gene expression of human microbiota populations and foodborne pathogens.
J Garcia-Lara.
Explaining the meaning of human rights from the Nigerian perspective using ethnomusicology.
A Uwazuruike and E Knudsen .
To find out more about the C4Globe, please email Professor Nicola Lowe , Centre Director, or email Dr Victoria Moran , Centre Deputy Director.
To sign up to the C4Globe newsletter please email Anna Brazier
For the latest news and updates, follow us on X: @c4globe

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/research/institutes/life/healthy-and-sustainable-settings-unit:
Established in 2001, the Healthy and Sustainable Settings Unit aims to support the holistic and integrated development of healthy settings – acknowledging that “health is created and lived by people within the settings of their everyday life; where they learn, work, play and love” (WHO, 1986)
We acknowledge that many health challenges are interrelated and can be best tackled through comprehensive, integrated programmes in the contexts and places where people live their lives.
Bridging research, policy and practice, the unit has a global reputation and is concerned to facilitate ecological approaches to health and wellbeing within and across a diversity of organisational and geographical settings – and to increase understanding of ‘what works and why’ in different contexts.
The unit’s work is informed by:
The Healthy and Sustainable Settings Unit’s portfolio of research, development and programme implementation is explicitly oriented to ensure ‘real-world’ impact.
Examples include:
Higher Education: Groundbreaking research conducted by the Healthy and Sustainable Settings Unit has been instrumental to the adoption of the ‘whole system’ settings approach to promoting health and wellbeing within higher education.
Resulting impacts are institutional (adoption/implementation of Healthy Universities model by higher education institutions, supported by the UK Healthy Universities Network , co-ordinated and co-chaired by Mark Dooris), national (growing appreciation of value of Healthy Universities approach by national bodies) and international (publication of an International Charter and establishment of an International Network and Steering Group chaired by Mark Dooris).
Prisons: The Healthy and Sustainable Settings Unit’s therapeutic horticulture programme, Greener on the Outside for Prisons , has contributed learning and innovation regionally and nationally – impacting positively on the health, wellbeing, safety and rehabilitation of some of the most vulnerable people in society.
Evaluative research has informed future strategic and system-level planning for offender management and health and justice, whilst also levering further research and implementation funding.
The programme has also connected with the work of the World Health Organisation’s Collaborating Centre on Health in Prisons and Health in Prisons Programme.
Settings: From 2007-2012, Professor Mark Dooris chaired the International Union for Health Promotion and Education’s Global Working Group on Healthy Settings – and in recognition of his leadership in this field has been keynote speaker at numerous international conferences, thereby influencing further research, policy and practice.
Cities: Mark was also a member of the evaluation team for Phases III and IV of the World Health Organisation’s European Healthy Cities initiative.
For full list of publications and reports by team members, see UCLan’s research repository (CLoK):
Publications since 2014:
Farrier A.
(2021) The ‘Dead Zone’ in the Stories of People in Prison .
In: Maycock M., Meek R., Woodall J.
(eds) Issues and Innovations in Prison Health Research.
Palgrave Studies in Prisons and Penology.
Palgrave Macmillan, Cham.
Baybutt, M.
and Dooris, M.
(2020) COVID-19: a catalyst to transform our future?
[Editorial].
International Journal of Health Promotion and Education .
Penazzi, Davide and Smith, Charlotte (2020) Conquering the ‘Fear Fortress’ – Returning to a mathematics exam as a Community Practitioner Nurse Prescriber .
MSOR connections.
Smith, Charlotte and Penazzi, Davide (2020) Triggering language and maths anxiety in non-medical prescribing students .
Journal of Prescribing Practice, 2 (5).
Smith, Charlotte, Coucill, Catherine Anne and Nuttall, Dilyse (2018) Organisational impact of the V150 nurse prescribing qualification .
British Journal of Community Nursing, 23 (8).
pp.
370-375.
Ridley, Neesha and Smith, Charlotte (2016) The case for collaborative learning: Introducing opportunities in the higher education setting .
British Journal of Midwifery, 24 (4).
282-285.
Ritchie, Georgina Louise and Smith, Charlotte (2015) Critical thinking in community nursing: Is this the 7th C?
British Journal of Community Nursing, 20 (12).
Baybutt, Michelle (2019) Nature-based health promotion: a valuable tool in prison partnerships .
European Journal of Public Health, 29 (S4).
Devine-Wright, Hannah, Baybutt, Michelle and Meek, Rosie (2019) Producing food in English and Welsh prisons .
Appetite, 143 (104433).
Dooris, Mark T, Farrier, Alan , Powell, Sue and Holt, Maxine (2019) Whole system approaches to health in higher education: an evaluation of the UK Healthy Universities Network .
Health Education, 119 (4).
246-258.
Dooris, Mark T, Powell, Sue and Farrier, Alan (2019) Conceptualizing the ‘whole university’ approach: an international qualitative study .
Health Promotion International.
Farrier, Alan, Baybutt, Michelle and Dooris, Mark T (2019) Mental Health and Wellbeing Benefits from a Prisons Horticultural Programme .
International Journal of Prisoner Health, 15 (1).
91-104.
Dooris, Mark T and Rocca, L (2019) Healthy settings and birth.
Chapter in: Downe, Soo and Byrom, S (eds) (2019) Squaring the Circle: Researching Normal Childbirth in a Technological World.
In: Squaring the Circle: Researching Normal Childbirth in a Technological World.
Pinter & Martin.
ISBN 9781780664408
Farrier, Alan, Dooris, Mark T and Froggett, Lynn (2019) Five Ways to Wellbeing: holistic narratives of public health programme participants .
Global Health Promotion, 26 (3).
71-79.
Farrier, Alan, Dooris, Mark T and Morley, Adrian (2019) Catalysing change?
A critical exploration of the impacts of a community food initiative on people, place and prosperity .
Landscape and Urban Planning, 192: 103663.
Greenhalgh, Olivia, Mcmahon, Naoimh, Gaskins, Nicola, Khan, Amna, Frings, Matthew, Janssen, Jessica, Lightbody, Catherine Elizabeth, Weston, Richard, Fry, John et al (2019) An exploration of stroke survivors’ perspectives on cycling and the use of electric bikes .
Physiotherapy Practice and Research, 40 (2).
117-126.
Pool, U.
(2019).
Socioeconomic inequalities in lifestyle-related health outcomes .
The Lancet Public Health, 4 (2) e85.
Food security and obesity: Can passerine foraging behavior inform explanations for human weight gain?
Behavioral and Brain Sciences, 42 e49.
Baybutt, Michelle , Dooris, Mark T and Farrier, Alan (2018) Growing Health in UK Prison Settings .
Health Promotion International, 34 (4).
792-802.
Dooris, Mark T, Farrier, Alan, Doherty, Sharon H, Holt, M, Monk, R and Powell, S (2018) The UK Healthy Universities Self Review Tool: Whole System Impact .
Health Promotion International, 33 (3).
448-457.
Dooris, Mark T, Farrier, Alan, Doherty, Sharon, Holt, M., Monk, R.
and Powell, S.
(2018) The UK Healthy Universities Self-Review Tool: Whole System Impact .
Health Promotion International, 32(3).
pp 448-457.
Dooris, Mark T, Farrier, Alan and Froggett, Lynn (2018) Wellbeing: The Challenge of ‘Operationalising’ an Holistic Concept within a Reductionist Public Health Programme .
Perspectives in Public Health, 138 (2).
93-99.
(2018).
Removing GDP from the equation: integrating health and wellbeing into national development metrics .
British Medical Journal.
363: k4371
Rayner, Gillian, Blackburn, Joanna, Edward, Karen-leigh, Stephenson, John and Ousey, Karen (2019) Emergency department nurse's attitudes towards patients who self-harm: A meta-analysis .
International Journal of Mental Health Nursing, 28 (1).
40-53.
Rayner, Gillian, Blackburn, Joanna, Ousey, Karen (2018) Compassionate wound care: An integrated intervention for people who self-injure .
Nurse Prescribing, 16 (12).
616-620.
Hancock, T., Capon, A., Dooris, M.
and Patrick, R.
(2017) One Planet Regions: Planetary health at the local level .
The Lancet Planetary Health 1(3): e92-93.
and Chemlal, K.
(2016) Health Promoting Prisons: Theory to Practice .
Global Health Promotion, 23 (1).
66-74.
Dooris, M.
(2016) International perspectives on healthy settings: critical reflections, innovations and new directions .
Global Health Promotion 23 (Suppl.
1).
pp 5-7.
Dooris, M., Doherty, S.
and Orme, J.
(2016) The Application of Salutogenesis in Universities .
Chapter in: Mittelmark, M et al (eds).
The Handbook of Salutogenesis, pp.237-245.
New York: Springer.
Newton, J., Dooris, M.
and Wills, J.
(2016) Healthy universities: an example of a whole-system health-promoting setting .
pp 57-65.
Patrick, R., Dooris, M.
and Poland, B.
(2016) Healthy cities and the transition movement: converging towards ecological well-being?
pp 90-93.
Dixey, R., Nyambe, S., Foster, S., Woodall, J.
and Baybutt, M.
(2015) Health promoting prisons – An impossibility for women prisoners in Africa?
Agenda, 29 (4): 95-102.
Holt, M., Monk, R., Powell, S.
(2015) Student perceptions of a healthy university .
Public Health.
129: 674-683.
Baybutt, M., Acin, E., Hayton, P and Dooris, M.
(2014) Promoting health in prison: a settings approach.
Ch21 in: Enggist, S.
Møller, L., Galea, G.
and Udesen, C.
Prisons and Health, pp.180-184.
Copenhagen: WHO Regional Office for Europe.
ISBN: 978 92 890 5059 3
Dooris, M., Wills, J.
and Newton, J.
(2014) Theorising Healthy Settings: a critical discussion with reference to Healthy Universities .
Scandinavian Journal of Public Health 42 (Suppl 15): 7–16.
Dominic Harrison
Dominic Harrison is a Visiting Professor in the Healthy and Sustainable Settings Unit.
Dominic is Director of Public Health for Blackburn with Darwen and a Board member of Blackburn with Darwen Clinical Commissioning Group – and he has previously been Deputy Regional Director for Public Health for the North West Region; North West Regional Associate Director for NICE and the Health Development Agency; and Health Promotion General Manager in Preston.
In 2010, Dominic was listed by the Department of Health as one of the 1000 ‘Top Leaders’ in the English healthcare system – one of only 26 public health professionals listed.
From 2011-13, he was a member of the Marmot European Review of The Social Determinants of Health and the Health Divide Task Force on Governance and Delivery.
He has worked on a number of public health system reviews in Central and Eastern Europe for the World Health Organisation and in 2013 co-authored a WHO publication, Governance for Health Equity: Taking forward the equity values and goals of Health 2020 in the WHO European Region.
Dominic is also a Fellow of the Faculty of Public Health and Public Health Specialist registered with the Faculty UK Voluntary Register.
He holds a Post Graduate Diploma in Health Education (Leeds) and a Masters in Public Health (Liverpool).
He has written on public health issues for the Guardian, the Local Government Chronicle and the BMJ.
His principal professional interests are related to health governance, life expectancy , health and the economy and the health outcome implications of poverty, inequality, social justice and sustainable development.
Deborah Harkins
Deborah Harkins is a Visiting Professor in the Healthy and Sustainable Settings Unit.
Deborah is Chief Officer Health and Wellbeing (Director of Public Health) for Dudley Council, where she is responsible for Public Health, Environmental Health and Trading Standards and Library and Archives services.
She is a highly motivated, pro-active and positive Director of Public Health, passionate about listening to and working differently with communities.
I have successfully led public health staff teams and budgets since 1997; building effective working relationships with staff, councillors, clinicians, officers, the media and community members from a wide range of backgrounds
She began her public health career in 1991 as a young parent living in one of Sheffield's most deprived areas, motivated to take action to improve her community.
Using skills from her degree, she worked as a researcher on an innovative community development for health project, interviewing around 1000 local people.
Having seen for herself the impact that social inequality and poor health have on people's lives, she became involved in community development and regeneration as a volunteer and then worked in public health in the NHS for 18 years.
Still as motivated by social justice as ever, she took up the post of Head of the Joint Health Unit in Lancashire County Council and led Lancashire-wide work on addressing health inequalities and provided leadership for the transfer of public health from the NHS to the County Council.
In August 2012 I secured the post of Director of Health Protection and Policy within the County Council and worked as a member of the County Council's Senior Leadership Group.
Stephen Morton
Stephen is a Visiting Professor in the Healthy and Sustainable Settings Unit.
He is an experienced public health doctor who worked in a variety of posts in the UK until retirement in 2017.
He has also worked for the World Health organisation, currently assisting WHO Europe on the implementation of the United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals.
He was appointed as a visiting professor at the University of Central Lancashire in March 2018.
Stephen has worked in general public health, health protection, health improvement, promoting sustainability and tackling health inequalities.
He has established and led successful public health teams in Public Health England, in the Health Protection Agency, and in Health Authorities, Primary Care Trusts and Public Health Networks, including a national role as Director of Sustainability and Public Health for Public health England.
He has contributed effectively to corporate health strategy, interagency working and effective delivery of health and related services.
He has particular experience (at regional, national and international level) on social regeneration, sustainable development and environmental improvement.
An adaptable and creative thinker, he also has university teaching and research experience, a wide range of publication and a strong commitment to evidence-based practice.
Alan Scott
Alan Scott is a Visiting Professor in the Healthy and Sustainable Settings Unit.
Alan is Executive Director of Public Sector Prisons North with responsibility for eight prison groups covering 46 prisons, focusing on the strategic priorities of improving safety, security, decency, supporting our people, and reducing reoffending.
Alan is the Public Sector Prisons strategic lead for Reducing Reoffending and chairs the national Rehabilitative Culture Programme Board.
Alan joined the Prison Service in 1983 from Edinburgh University as an Assistant Governor serving initially at HMYOI Wellingborough in Northamptonshire and has now worked in offender management for over 34 years.
Over this time his roles included Governor of HMP Preston, Governor of HMP Wymott, Area Manager for the South West, Deputy Director of Custody for the North West and Acting Director of Public Sector Prisons.
Alan has significant experience of and is particularly interested in: the development of rehabilitative culture in prisons and ways in which this can be achieved working with evidence-based practice; and multidisciplinary working to address reoffending and the management of risk.
In 2018 Alan received the CBE for services to HM Prison and Probation Service and to the community in the North West.
Members of the Healthy & Sustainable Settings Unit offer supervision in fields such as:
Michelle Baybutt is module leader for, and other Unit members teach on, PG4114 (Healthy Settings: Theory, Policy and Practice), which forms part of both the MSc Applied Public Health and the MSc Sustainability, Health & Wellbeing.
Members of the Healthy & Sustainable Settings Unit contribute to various undergraduate and postgraduate modules.
The Healthy & Sustainable Settings Unit has been commissioned by a range of organisations including the Health Service Executive for Ireland, the Health Promotion Agency for Northern Ireland and Coventry City Council to deliver tailored training and development courses in Healthy Settings.
Healthy and Sustainable Settings Unit Brook 327 University of Central Lancashire PR1 2HE
For more information, please get in touch via the members section above.
At their simplest, settings such as schools and workplaces are convenient places for health interventions.
However, the healthy settings approach recognises that many health determinants and influences are interrelated and can be best tackled through comprehensive, integrated programmes in the contexts and places where people live their lives.
Drawing on organisational development and community development perspectives, the approach is ecological and systems-based, working towards whole system change – with the aim of integrating health and well-being within the ethos, culture, routine life and core business of settings.
Action is usually focused in three areas:
The approach is values-based, uses a range of methods and holds a number of aspects in tension:

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/research/institutes/pact/centre-for-sustainable-transitions/covid-recovery-in-preston-project:
This project explored, both conceptually and with stakeholders from Preston’s anchor institutions and diverse communities, how disruption from one threat might galvanise momentum to address another.
The project examined how recovery from COVID-19 could be a springboard to accelerate action for a new and better future: a future that respects and prioritises the wellbeing of people, places and the planet.
The project was led by UCLan, working in collaboration with Preston City Council, Community Gateway Association and Climate Action Preston.
It ran from 2021-2022 and was funded by the Place-based Climate Action Network (PCAN) , an ESRC-supported Network that brings together the research community and decision-makers in the public, private and third sectors, with additional support from UCLan’s Institute of Citizenship, Society and Change and the Centre for Sustainable Transitions .
There were two main strands:

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/research/institutes/ineti/circle-project:
Both climate change and the increasing urbanisation of European cities are impacting the management of rainwater and runoff, which are presenting major challenges for the planning of settlements.
In natural settings, impermeable surfaces account for around 10%, whilst in cities it can reach up to 75%.
This equates to an overall water infiltration of soils of roughly only 10% in urban environments.
This creates challenges for city planners such as: environmental risks of localised flooding, personal insecurity due to flood damage and considerable pollution of the natural environment.
Europe is now facing more extreme weather with increased rainfall over shorter periods.
One solution is the drainage from surface structures.
Yet, the current use of permeable surfaces is rare, expensive to install and less resilient than impermeable ones.
Many permeable surfaces generate economic activity that contribute to the depletion of natural resources (aggregates).
This project aims to develop a solution to limit the environmental and carbon impacts by using a recycled waste product.
Following conclusive experiments at BUILDERS Ecole d’ingénieurs, we have identified new waste sources along the UK and French Channel coasts.
The recovery of these shell co-products is then used to produce permeable paving.
The CIRCLE partnership hopes to develop new solutions for permeable surfaces from novel concrete formulations with lower environmental impact, greater market potential and helping to decontaminate drained water.
To encourage its adoption in the current market, it will be based on novel ready-mix formulations.
We are currently in contact with companies in the construction sector to realise our plans, with Tarmac approached in the UK and EQIOM involved in France.
This project is financially supported by the Interreg V/A France (Channel) England with €1.9M ERDF for a total budget of around €2.8M (69% co-financing).
It brings together 6 complementary partners (including one from outside the FMA zone): è BUILDERS Ecole d’ingénieurs, EQIOM Bétons, the Communauté d'Agglomérations des 2 Baies en Montreuillois (CA2BM), the University of East Anglia, the University of Central Lancashire and the Golfe du Morbihan Vannes Agglomérations (GMVA).
Professor Karl S Williams
Leila Khajenoori
Nkiru Ifeanyichukwu Ibeakuzie
Emmanuel Anike

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/professional-services/arc:
Our Advice and Resolution Centre (ARC) offers members of the public access to free legal and advisory services.
We offer a wide range of advice and support.
Contact us via email at ARC@uclan.ac.uk or phone 01772 893897
Our Advice and Resolution Centre (ARC) is located at the University of Central Lancashire Preston campus.
We have a private and safe space near the entrance of the Foster Building.
Address: Advice and Resolution Centre (ARC), Foster Building, UCLan, PR1 2HE
Explore the maps below for more information.
Our clinics are only open during the University's term times below.
We can only offer mediation services outside of these times.
Term 1
Term 2
Our clinics are a mix of both drop-in and appointment sessions.
To find the times these are available, please see the table below:
Wednesdays, 11.00am - 1.00pm
(Closed Wednesday 28 May 2025)
Drop-in
The last Wednesday of every month, 3.00pm - 4.00pm
Will be arranged with you during Wednesdays, 2.30pm - 3.30pm
We'll provide you with the same high standard of service you'd expect from any solicitor’s practice.
You'll be interviewed by one of our trained student advisers, who will be under the close supervision of qualified solicitors from in-house and local firms in Lancashire.
Following the session you'll be provided with written advice.
Our law clinic can provide free written advice on many issues including:
If we are unable to help for any reason we will normally refer people to another organisation who can.
Please be aware that we do not provide legal representation.
This clinic requires you to book an appointment.
Please contact us to arrange a suitable time
Our free immigration clinic runs once a month with our specialist adviser, Farheen Adam, from Moses Law.
She will provide you with advice on:
This is a free walk-in service and no appointment is necessary however clients will be seen on a first come, first served basis.
Our drop-in clinic is run in partnership with Citizens Advice.
We'll offer you information and guidance on a range of issues including
Through our policy clinic we conduct research into legal policy, procedure or practice.
Using the University's research resources and academic specialists, we provide an evidence-based viewpoint on a particular piece of law, procedure or practice.
By helping an organisation understand their current legal position, they can make an informed decision on their next steps.
The ARC is located in Foster Building room number FB003

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/professional-services/community-dentists:
We are the only university in the North West, and one of only a few nationally, to boast our own Dental Clinic on campus.
Based on our main Preston Campus, our Dental Clinic features clinical facilities which support the training of our dentistry students.
We are fully equipped to give our dental students direct access to practical clinical experience, as well as providing suitable clinical experience for the whole dental team at the same location as they undertake their continued professional development.
We provide specialist services to members of the public from across the region in our bright and modern Dental Clinic, located approximately a 10 minute walk from Preston city centre.
We offer our services to patients who usually have their own dentists and are referred specifically to us for a course of treatment.
The Clinic features a host of specialist technologies and equipment, including our Zeiss dental operating microscopes and Dental Cone Beam CT Scanner.
We may be able to accept self-referrals for Clinical Dental Technology (CDT) and Oral Surgery services.
(see courses for specific referral requirements)
Our dentistry students carry out the clinical based element of their master’s and Dental Care Professional (DCP) programmes at our training facility on campus.
All our postgraduate students are qualified General Dental Council (GDC) registered dentists and all treatments are carried out under specialist-led supervision.
We operate lists for treatment by students but acceptance for treatment is based on criteria as defined by the school below.
Course treatment dates which run between September and July are set a year in advance and cannot be changed.
Please be aware that our treatments are not provided within the NHS and so you will be required to pay the costs of any necessary treatment, investigations and planning.
All costs and potential charges will be discussed with you when you attend your extended treatment planning appointment on being accepted onto a programme.
You will require a free initial triage appointment prior to being placed on a programme.
To be referred to our Dental Clinic you will need to provide us with a detailed letter from a dental professional together with recent radiographs (this should be in JPEG format).
Letters must contain the following details:
We are unable to accept you as a patient if you are not actively participating in a good oral health regime, or if you are a heavy smoker.
Opening hours: Monday-Friday 8.30am - 6.00pm
Patients must be available to attend between 9.30am and 4.00pm.
We are unable to offer any student service outside of these times and the set dates.
UCLan Community Dentists Limited Harrington Building University of Central Lancashire
Telephone: +44 (0)1772 896300 Email the Dental Clinic
There is a limited amount of free parking outside the Dental Clinic.
There are also several pay and display car parks within a five minutes walk.
We take all complaints seriously and aim to deal with your concerns in a timely manner.
The person responsible for dealing with any complaint made directly to reception, face to face, via telephone or email is the Clinic Manager, Jane Pearson, using the contact details on this page.
We will acknowledge your complaint in writing and enclose a copy of our full code of practice as soon as possible, normally within three working days.
Company Reg : 12125325
Our last check showed that our service was meeting all CQC national standards.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/facilities/csi-village:
We've invested in extensive crime scene investigation facilities so you can gain practical experience.
The simulated scenes progress from a straightforward crime to more complicated major incident scenarios.
In 2021, we created 15 new crime scene flats, allowing you to work in smaller groups that reflect real-world working conditions.
The flats are accessible and fitted with CCTV, so our academic team can give you feedback on your decision-making skills and recovery plans.
We also have further crime scene houses and a large forensic vehicle examination garage with 4 vehicles.
These additional facilities give you more experience in forensic evidence recovery and more specialised expertise in areas such as blood spatter analysis.
Our academic team can place relevant evidence into scenes depending on the situation.
Here's a list of few different scenarios we have:
Open during normal teaching hours.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/facilities/moot-court-room:
Our purpose-built moot court room enables you to gain practical experience of a court room.
Our moot court room allows you to practice presenting cases in a real-life setting, take part in trials, act as a representative for the parties and learn how to conduct yourself in a court of law.
Renovated in 2024, we've worked hard to ensure you get the most realistic experience possible.
The Moot Court Room can be found in 001 of the Harris Building

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/about-us/schools-and-colleges/on-campus-events:
We offer bespoke on-campus visits that will give your students a taste of university life.
We offer full and partial day visits and can create a programme to fit your school or college's needs.
We offer a range of subject taster sessions.
These are led by academics, so students can see what it would really be like to study a course at university.
They may even use some of our specialist facilities during the session.
This can help students decide what they want to study in the future.
Please email us for a full list of subjects and breakdown of sessions.
Our university experience days allow student to immerse themselves into student life.
This can help them decide whether they want to study at university or not.
They'll be able to speak to academics and other students.
They'll also explore our facilities and get a real feel for campus.
You can choose from a number of sessions to suit your students' needs.
Please email our team to discuss this further.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/about-us/schools-and-colleges/off-campus-sessions:
Our team can visit your school or college, so students can to find out more about university life.
We can provide a series of engaging talks and workshops, which help students prepare for university.
It can be overwhelming to think about the future.
We'll introduce university and why it may be the right choice.
We'll also talk about how to choose the right course.
We'll consider things like interests, career goals, work placements and even methods of assessment.
We offer both personal statement talks and 1-2-1 workshops.
In our personal statement talk, students will get top tips from the experts.
They will also be able to ask questions, clearing up any pain points.
By the end of the session, they'll feel confident enough to write their own personal statement.
In our personal statement 1-2-1 workshop, we'll sit down with students and go through their personal statement.
We'll identify ways to improve it.
This can prove incredibly valuable to students.
We'll explain what Student finance is.
This includes the difference between a tuition fee loan and a maintenance loan.
We'll go through the application process and encourage students to apply as soon as possible.
We'll also teach students how to budget their money, helping them make their student loan last longer.
These is a key money management skill that will help them in university and beyond.
Degree Apprenticeships are becoming increasingly popular, as students want to gain experience alongside their studies.
We'll explain what Degree Apprenticeships are and how they are different to normal degrees.
We'll also explain how to apply for a Degree Apprenticeship , as students need a job first.
We'll talk about our Apprenticeship Matching Service .
This is a unique service that matches students to employers looking for an apprentice.
Students can learn more about life at university.
This talk will focus on more of the social aspects of university.
This includes everything from making friends to managing assignments.
This talk is for Year 13 students once they've applied to university.
We'll explain what happens next.
This includes understanding your offers and how to decide whether to accept your offers.
We'll explain what UCAS Extra is, in case students who want to apply for more universities and courses.
We'll also explain what Clearing is and how it works.
This can help students who may not get their grades in the summer.
It can also help students who didn't apply for university, but may have changed their mind.
Our team will talk to students all about the University of Central Lancashire.
We'll show why it might be the right choice for them.
We'll talk about our outstanding student support, as well as our excellent course facilities.
This can help students decide if we're the right university for them.
These are designed by academics, so students can see what it's like to study a degree.
Email us to find out more about the subjects offered and a breakdown of the sessions
You'll have a dedicated contact at the university.
We'll set up an account meeting to go through your students' needs.
We can help you plan relevant activities to meet the Gatsby Benchmarks.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/about-us/schools-and-colleges/nurturing-futures-conference:
Learn more about the university application process and gain sector-wide updates designed to help you meet your Gatsby Benchmarks.
Our Nurturing Futures Conference is an annual education event.
You'll attend a series of talks and workshops led by our experts and gain valuable knowledge about the university application process, helping you to support your students further.
You'll also have the opportunity to network with other education professionals to share best practice.
The next Nurturing Futures Conference will be held on Wednesday 25 March 2026.
Previously, we’ve welcomed careers advisors and tutors from schools and colleges across England.
Attendees have gained valuable updates and insights from organisations such as UCAS, Student Finance England and JISC, as well as subject-specific updates from our academic teams.
We’re still finalising the programme for our 2026 conference.
Please let us know if you would benefit from any particular activity.
You can email our team with any suggestions.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/facilities/students-union:
Our main Students' Union (SU) building is at the heart of Preston Campus.
The SU organises events throughout the year and provides support if you need it.
It's home to many fabulous societies , from LGBTQ+ and drama to photography, debating, media and sport.
If you can’t find a society you’re interested in, then the Students’ Union can help you set up your own.
Check out the friendly Students' Union Café, serving delicious Starbucks coffee, food and other drinks.
You can also buy your official University of Central Lancashire hoodies and t-shirts from the Union Shop online .
Monday - Friday
9.00am to 5.00pm

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/facilities/lecture-theatres:
Across our Preston Campus, you’ll find a wide range of lecture theatres designed to support different styles of teaching and learning.
Whether it’s a large-scale lecture or a smaller, more focused session, we have spaces to suit every need.
Each theatre is fully equipped with up-to-date IT and audio-visual technology to bring your learning to life.
From high-quality projection and sound systems to lecture capture and interactive displays.
Our lecture theatres are spread across key buildings on campus.
These modern teaching spaces help create a connected, engaging experience across all subject areas.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/facilities/student-enterprise-hub:
Our Student Enterprise Hub (SEHub) through the Propeller Programme can help students who have a business start-up idea to bring that idea to life, including side hustles that can lead to raising your employability skills.
Enjoy one-to-one business guidance and mentoring through our Hub helping you on your journey to becoming a business entrepreneur.
Working with our current students and recent graduates we offer an accessible and approachable service that offers straight-forward advice and support.
On top of one to one mentoring our Propeller Programme offers various workshops designed to help you check the viability of your idea, write a business plan, and start trading, supporting raising finance through investment, loan and grant applications.
We focus on the start of your enterprise journey, from pre-start through the first two years of trading.
We can still support older businesses, but our other services may be better suited to established business needs please visit develop your business section for more information on these.
Propeller is a multi-award-winning service and a leader within the Higher Education sector.
Having existed for over 10 years, our team of staff boast a wide range of industry experience from employability and education to accounting and recruitment.
We foster a culture of enterprise, creating a community of innovative and enterprising individuals
The Student Enterprise Hub can be found in 4413 of the Media Factory

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/journalism-ba:
Our Journalism course is practical, industry-focused, and highly respected.
You’ll follow in the footsteps of more than 60 years' of Journalism graduates who continue to lead the way in traditional news and current affairs to PR, communications and the wider media industry.
BA (Hons) Journalism is designed to put you ahead in this competitive industry.
This degree is accredited by the National Council for the Training of Journalists (NCTJ).
The NCTJ is the UK’s leading professional body for the training of qualified and trusted journalists.
This means alongside your degree, your fees will also cover the teaching and assessment needed to complete the NCTJ Level 5 Diploma in Journalism.
You’ll learn all the industry-essential broadcast, digital and traditional reporting skills as well as law for journalists and political reporting in relation to local and national government.
Work experience and employability is embedded into this degree.
Our annual careers experience event (cJAM) provides an opportunity to meet and learn from industry professionals from around the UK.
In your final year, you choose modules that best reflect your individual interests and career aspirations.
Whether that is documentaries and podcasts, or digital projects and magazine brand creation.
Within our industry-standard newsrooms and broadcast studios, BA (Hons) Journalism students are reporters from day one.
You'll learn and develop the skills, knowledge and confidence to put you ahead of the crowd.
We’ll encourage, support and guide you all the way, ensuring you fulfil your unique potential.
Robert Nisbett on his experience in journalism
Learning how to react to the day’s news, you will work in a team to create a variety of on-the-day content, which will prepare you for future newsdays and help you meet tight deadlines.
This module will give you all the essential information you need to tell engaging news stories.
You will explore how to come up with ideas, where to find stories and contributors, and how to reach communities you may not already be a part of.
There will be a strong emphasis on inclusion and diversity, learning how to tell stories that reflect people from different backgrounds.
In this module you'll learn the skills needed to be a news reporter, both technical and writing.
You'll learn how to use broadcast cameras, audio recording equipment and how to edit video and audio.
This module will help you to recognise the ethical and professional issues faced by journalists within liberal democracies so that you're able to make informed practical decisions in your everyday work.
You'll learn about the legal and regulatory framework in which journalists operate and apply your knowledge in a newsroom environment through practical sessions.
On this module you'll continue to develop your journalism skills, learning to find and develop stories for a range of platforms and audiences.
You will take part in news production days, simulating a typical day in a real-life newsroom and continue to hone your craft by developing your technical and writing skills, within the context of the industry’s legal and regulatory framework
During this module, you'll learn how to write engaging feature articles for specialist and non-specialist publications and magazines both in print and digital.
You'll also learn the basics of photojournalism and how to appropriately promote your journalism to a wide audience.
On this module you'll advance your journalism skills by taking part in news production days, simulating what life is like for a reporter in industry.
You will identify and generate content using professional standards of journalism for a range of platforms and audiences (e.g.
broadcast, online, social media).
You will develop your ability and confidence to work independently and within a broader team to successfully meet production deadlines.
Our module will enable you to recognise and understand the ethical issues journalists face.
This will provide you with the tools to make informed and ethical decisions on the work that you create and ultimately, you will meet the requirements of the UK journalism industry accreditation bodies in the teaching of ethics and regulation.
Advance your journalism skills by taking part in 15 news production days, simulating what life is like for a reporter in the industry.
You'll find stories, make TV and radio bulletins, and produce website and social media content.
This module prepares you for a work placement in journalism, creative media, communications or another relevant organisation.
Undertake and benefit from a placement to enhance your employability, reflect and critically analyse the relevant organisation, industry sector and the employment opportunities available.
On this module you'll plan, script, record and edit a podcast (or series of) about news, current affairs or a sporting subject or topic of your choice.
You will then go on to create a brand to market your podcast.
You'll learn how to use digital platforms to tell stories in creative ways.
You'll explore how solutions-based journalism has a positive impact on the way audiences engage with digital content.
In this module, you'll work in a team to create a new brand and learn the skills needed to turn it into a successful business.
You will also learn to use industry-standard software for print and online design.
You'll draw upon previous learning to initiate and undertake a sustained research-based study of your choice in the field of journalism
You will plan, film, interview, script and edit a short television documentary about a news/current affairs or sporting subject and topic of their choosing.
You'll then critically reflect on the process.
You’ll study central and local government and other public bodies in the UK.
You’ll learn how to access public information, produce topical stories and present to different audiences.
The module prepares you for sitting both the University module and the NCTJ Essential Public Affairs examination.
As well as aiming to meet the accreditation requirements of the Broadcast Journalism Training Council and the Periodicals Publishers’ Association.
Unleash your creativity at anytime, anywhere.
From September 2024, you'll have access to the industry-standard Adobe Creative Cloud package on both your personal device and on campus.
Get hands-on with this widely recognised package and create a portfolio that showcases your skills.
You’ll find our alumni working professionally at every level - not only within TV, radio, online/digital, magazines and communications - but also in professions where their transferable skills are in demand.
Journalism at the University of Central Lancashire has an excellent record for employability.
Our graduates have gone on to work for national newspapers, magazines and employers such as the BBC, Sky and ITV.
The work placements and skills you learn are transferable to a wide range of careers.
The Royal Television Society (RTS) is offering a Bursary Award to talented students from lower-income backgrounds with an interest in pursuing a career in television.
A three-year degree qualification typically comprises 360 credits and every 20 credits (a standard module) equates to 200 hours of study, which comprises of a mixture of lectures, seminars, tutorials, practical sessions and independent study.
The exact combination of study time will be detailed within your module descriptors and will depend on your option choices.
You’ll be assessed in a variety of ways, including practical portfolios, skills tests, academic essays, individual and group presentations, formal examinations and coursework.
Assessment is both formative and summative and is closely aligned to learning outcomes.
Our Journalism degree has extensive and excellent links with industry.
Industry guests from across the sector regularly visit us for Q&A’s and industry advice.
They’ll also work with you on newsdays, providing advice and tips as you spend the day producing content for TV, radio, digital and online audiences.
We also have cJAM, our unique annual careers and work placement event.
Students in Year 2 and 3 are invited to meet professionals from across the industry.
The CJAM event features industry professional from presenters and editors to reporters and documentary producers.
Students also take part in our individual pitching event, hoping to gain work experience, internships or shadowing opportunities.
NCTJ Diploma
We offer all essential, compulsory NCTJ modules plus the following NCTJ options, many of which are built into your degree-level assessments: Public Affairs, Practical Magazine Journalism, Broadcast Journalism, as well as Shorthand, Court Reporting, Video Journalism for Digital Platforms, Editing Skills for Journalists.
This course is delivered by the School of Arts and Media

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/social-work-ba:
Are you passionate about helping those in need?
Our BA (Hons) Social Work meets Social Work England's professional standards.
It will prepare you to work with some of society's most marginalised and disadvantaged people.
Our Social Work undergraduate degree has been developed in collaboration with social work service users, carers, and social work agencies.
This means you'll be well prepared for the fast-changing and challenging world of social work.
As part of your degree, you'll gain invaluable hands-on experience through 170 days of practice, including a 70-day first placement and a 100-day final placement.
This means you focus on your learning while gaining practical skills in real-world settings
With placements in local authorities, voluntary sector and NHS teams, you’ll receive comprehensive training that meets Social Work England’s professional standards, preparing you for a successful career in social work.
You can choose to study this course at either our Preston or Burnley Campus.
Our course aligns with Social Work England's professional standards , so you will be eligible to apply for professional registration when you graduate.
Comensus volunteers support social work education by sharing lived experience.
They do this through storytelling, resources, and course design.
This helps students build ethical awareness, empathy, and real-world connections.
On our BA (Hons) Social Work, you'll complete 170 days of practice:
A specialist team arranges all placement so you won't need to worry about this.
All placements are based in the North-West of England, primarily across Lancashire.
All placements are audited according to Social Work England’s professional standards and the Professional Capabilities Framework (PCF).
Your placements will be in a range of employers in North West England.
Your first placement will normally take place in a private, voluntary, independent or charitable (PVI) organisation.
Your final placement will include statutory experience and may take place either in a local authority, with the NHS or sometimes with a PVI organisation.
Our NHS partner is Lancashire and South Cumbria Foundation Trust.
Our local authority partners are:
This module provides an introduction to key sociological debates and aims to introduce you to the concept of social justice and how this is relevant to contemporary social work practice and its application.
This module provides theoretical approaches to the understanding of physical and psychological life from infancy to old age.
If you are studying the non-apprenticeship route this module will contribute to the studies practical application.
This module will introduce you to contemporary legislative frameworks for risk assessment and safeguarding and promoting the physical health and welfare of children, apprentices and vulnerable adults.
This ensures your readiness in law for safe and effective practice.
This module aims to prepare you for practice, learning, and demonstration of the conduct, performance and ethics required for social work on your first placement.
You'll be introduced to the values, role and responsibilities of the professional social worker.
You must pass ‘Readiness for Social Work Practice’ before you can start your placement.
This module will introduce you to the knowledge base, skills and values that underpin effective communication for social work practice.
You will be introduced to the concepts of emotional intelligence, use of self, resilience and helped to understand how self-knowledge and insight is integral to effective social work practice.
This module will provide you with opportunities to critically apply law, policy and practice in respect of children, families and young people.
You will develop an awareness of the application and processes of legal duties that inform safeguarding, care planning and decision making in a variety of social work settings.
This module will help you to develop your confidence in identifying and applying social perspectives to mental health.
A critical examination of the socio-legal contexts of mental health work is a core feature of the module.
You will develop an awareness of the knowledge, skills and values you must apply when working with people in mental distress.
This module provides the opportunity to complete a practice placement of the length required by the social work regulator.
The placement practice opportunity will enable you to meet and work with people with lived experience of social work practice.
The module gives this practical experience and provides you with opportunities to demonstrate professional behaviour, conduct, performance and ethics outlined by the regulator.
This module aims to address social work practice with adult service users and carers in diverse contexts.
You will explore service user and carer perspectives and consolidate your learning around legislation and policy that guides and informs your critical understanding of the work within adult contexts.
This module will enable you to develop a ‘research-mindedness’ approach to your practice by accessing databases, assessing, interpreting and applying research into a literature review.
The content will focus on research informed practice with various service user groups.
This module aims to consolidate and enhance your understanding of relationship-based practice in social work.
Recognising and understanding that professional thinking and practice must engage with the complexities and uncertainties of human experiences.
This module provides opportunities for you to continue your professional development consolidating from your first social work placement.
Providing opportunities to develop your social work skills and knowledge and continue to develop your professional identity.
You will be located in a practice setting which will meet the professional standards for social work and will help you improve your skills and understanding.
To become a social worker, you must have a degree, along with strong listening and communication skills, resilience, and creativity.
When you graduate, you'll need to register with Social Work England or the relevant regulator in your area before applying for jobs.
After graduating you could become a social worker in a range of areas, such as:
Depending on your interests, you may work in the public or private sectors or in a variety of voluntary and independent agencies.
Students who recently graduated from our social work course are employed as social workers in a variety of settings.
There is also the option to continue your studies by completing a post-qualifying course.
BA (Hons) Children, Schools & Families (Graduate Practitioner) uniquely combines education, sociology, psychology, social policy, and social work.
This offers an alternative route to a rewarding career focused on supporting children and families.
The Social Work Bursary is available through the NHS Business Services Authority, it can help with study and living costs and is a grant not a loan.
A three-year degree qualification typically comprises 360 credits and each 20 credits (a standard module) equates to 200 hours of study, including lectures, seminars, tutorials, practical sessions and independent study.
The exact combination of study time is detailed within module descriptors, and will depend on your chosen options.
Teaching and learning opportunities include lectures, seminars, student-led projects, presentations, e-learning, discussion groups, workshops, self-directed study, and work-based learning.
Social work practitioners and service users and carers contribute to course delivery.
Academic assessments include; essays, presentations, case studies, oral interviews, practice placements and portfolios.
We have long-standing relationships with a wide range of agencies across the North West.
You will be supported in gaining practical experience through placements, work experience and volunteering.
As part of the course you will have the opportunity to hear about the experiences of service users, carers, patients and public members via our community engagement and service user support groups (Comensus).
We have lots of extra-curricular activities including a dedicated social work film club offering monthly screenings around relevant films, book clubs and course outings.
In recent years the School’s research seminar series has provided a forum for new and early career researchers, and for established researchers and academics, to present their research and encourage debate about a range of topics, research methods and approaches.
The series brings together students, researchers, practitioners, academics, stakeholders and service user and carer groups.
Recent seminar topics have included: Peer Support in the Transition from Hospital to Home for People with Mental Health Problems; Drug and Alcohol dependency amongst LGBTQ+ people; and Adolescent Sexual Coercion.
This course is delivered by the School of Health, Social Work and Sport

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/undergraduate/courses/children-schools-families-ba:
Would you like to work with children and families, and the services that support them?
Our BA (Hons) Children, Schools and Families is the course for you.
Our course is mapped to the Quality Assurance Agency (QAA) benchmarks for Early Childhood Studies.
The course draws upon education, psychology, sociology, social work and health.
You'll gain a solid grounding for your future career working within the children and families workforce.
You’ll examine the services, systems, policies and work practices that relate to children and young people in schools, with families, and in care settings.
The programme integrates theory, policy and professional practice.
You will conduct professional placements and work-based learning, ensuring you are well-prepared for the workplace.
From September 2022, studying this course works towards attaining the Early Childhood Graduate Practitioner Competencies (ECGP).
The ECGP Competencies meets the requirements of the Department for Education.
This ensures the degree is 'full and relevant.' Students who achieve the nine competencies and pass an assessed practice can be included in Level 3 EYFS ratios.
Students will meet the nine competencies through a combination of assessed observations during their 80 days/510 hours of practice, work-based tasks and academic assessment.
In this module you will explore different representations and ideas about the ‘nature’ of childhood.
You will examine social institutions and how ideas about childhood feed into ways we work with children.
You will explore the role that children themselves take in shaping our understandings of childhood.
You will consider childhood as a social phenomenon.
An introduction to the key legislation, policy and themes shaping current service provision for children and young people, and their families and carers.
This module aims to identify and examine transitions in children and young people's lives using theories to explain the effects.
You will consider the need to manage transitions to ensure good practice and reflect on your own responses to change and transition, as well as developing strategies for coping with transitions.
Significant classical and contemporary theories of child, adolescent and adult development.
Ecological influences on children and their families.
Socio-cultural influences on development.
Understanding atypical development.
Adverse childhood experiences and safeguarding risk factors.
Social and emotional resilience.
Social and emotional wellbeing.
Professional responses to support well-being and development, and enabling the voice of the child, young person or family members to be heard and understood.
You are required to undertake and attain a pass mark of 40% or above for the written assessment.
This module primarily focuses on introducing you to the children and families’ workforce and has four central themes:
Discover the contested nature of key concepts and terminology in the area of diversity and inclusion, challenge oppressive practices and promote an understanding of the diverse experiences of different social groups.
Recognise the significance of the interplay between various dimensions of social inequality and gain knowledge and understanding of relevant policy contexts, investigating the relationship between policy and inclusive practice
This module examines research with children and young people by studying a number of key research studies.
You will gain insights into the research process and build your competence and confidence within yourself as a researcher.
This module examines the emergence of early childhood pedagogy.
Drawing upon theoretical, historical and contemporary thinking in relation to the importance of play in early childhood development.
You will develop knowledge and understanding of the National Occupational Standards policy, legislation, and guidance.
The module explores the evidence base shaping contemporary safeguarding practice within children's services.
This module primarily focuses on exploring the roles and responsibilities associated with the children and families workforce.
The module considers the skills, knowledge and standards that underpin specific roles and continues to develop your academic and transferable skills by, amongst other things, developing your skills in critical thinking and analysis and composing job applications.
This module provides an opportunity for you to undertake independent study in an area of your own choosing involving a particular issue of relevance to children and young people’s lives and services.
You will be guided and supported by your dissertation supervisor to plan, carry out the project and write it up as an academic research.
This module will provide you with an overview of critical issues for children, families and young people, taking into account a variety of factors and including the views of service users and carers, theoretical concepts, research evidence and relevant policy and legislation.
This module recognises and critically discusses the prominence of children, families and ‘youth’ in Government policies.
This module  aims to give you the opportunity to consider international approaches to childcare and family policy.
You will consider the political, economic, social and cultural aspects of childhood and family life.
This will ultimately build your understanding of how childhood is socially constructed worldwide.
On this module you will understand the professional practices of an Early Childhood Graduate Practitioner.
You will become an advocate for young children’s rights and participation and recognise that young children are active co-constructors of their own learning.
You will critically apply high-level academic knowledge of pedagogy and research evidence, to the holistic development of infants and young children (0-8), in a practice context that is respectful of the child, their family and community.
Our graduates work across the spectrum of children and families settings, including children’s centres, schools, national charities, nurseries and family and community support.
The degree programme opens opportunities for further study on a range of postgraduate and master's programmes across the children, social care and health sector.
A three-year degree qualification typically comprises 360 credits and each 20 credits (a standard module) equates to 200 hours of study.
We promote student-centred learning.
That means we encourage you to become an independent learner through a variety of strategies including lectures, group discussions, workshops, seminars and, where appropriate, the use of skills laboratories to practice your skills.
The exact combination of study time is detailed within module descriptors and will depend on your chosen options.
We use a variety of assessment methods including essays, content analysis, portfolio, presentations and workbooks, a research proposal and a final-year dissertation.
We have excellent links with a range of placement contacts including primary and secondary schools, children’s residential care homes, children’s advocacy services, domestic violence centres, pupil referral units and family support services.
The course draws on a range of subject areas including education, sociology, psychology, social policy and social work.
By combining regular work placements with academic content, the course also integrates theory, policy and practice.
You will carry out observational visits and work-shadowing activities in a relevant setting.
If you are not already working with children or young people, you’ll be expected to spend 12 days learning in a children’s services setting during your final year.
You will also have the opportunity to access the Erasmus programme and be part of an international exchange.
A range of perspectives from different countries are covered in the course.
On this course you’ll benefit from our Centre for Volunteering and Community Leadership (CVCL) which enables you to get involved in projects which make a positive difference to people’s lives.
They offer a range of volunteering projects in the UK and Internationally so you’re bound to find something that inspires you.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/news/university-of-central-lancashire-climbs-14-places-in-student-positivity-survey:
The 2025 National Student Survey ranks the University of Central Lancashire 35th for average positivity out of 122 institutions
Students attending the University of Central Lancashire* say the educational experience they receive is overwhelmingly positive, shooting the institution up a huge 14 places in the 2025 National Student Survey (NSS).
The University’s improved overall positivity score places it 35th for average positivity out of 122 institutions included in the Guardian League Table, increasing by 2.6% to 84.3% compared to 81.7% in 2024 after seeing higher positivity scores in all 27 standard questions.
The University of Central Lancashire was highly rated by its students on questions about learning opportunities, learning resources and assessment and feedback, scoring 0.9% above the sector average overall.
Pro Vice-Chancellor (Students and Teaching) Professor Andrew Ireland said: “Improvements in our overall positivity score has also seen us move further up regional rankings with us now placed 6th out of 12 in the North West for average positivity and 8th out of 19 institutions in the Million+ grouping**.
“Students are at the heart of everything we do and as a University we strive to constantly improve the experience they have with us.
These results show that we listen to our students and act decisively using the feedback they provide.
Our whole University family ought to be very proud of our strong National Student Survey performance.”
In individual subject areas, the University of Central Lancashire was first in the sector for positivity in Drama, Midwifery, Journalism, Nutrition and Dietetics, Archaeology, and Social Sciences, with a further nine subjects ranked in the top five.
“It is fantastic to see so many improvements across the board, and I wish to thank all of our staff for the part they’ve played and their continued focus on improving teaching, learning and the student experience,” added Professor Ireland.
The National Student Survey (NSS) gathers students’ opinions on the quality of their courses which helps to inform prospective students’ choices and provides data that supports universities and colleges to improve the student experience.
Every university in the UK takes part in the NSS, as do many colleges.
Response rates are consistently high.
The 2025 results were published on Wednesday 09 July.

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/news/name-change-1:
The University of Central Lancashire can begin dropping the word ‘central’
The Office for Students (OfS) has given its approval for the University of Central Lancashire to officially change its name to the University of Lancashire.
Although the University of Lancashire is officially the institution’s new name, visible changes will be incremental over the coming year and the transition is considerate and in line with the student recruitment cycle.
Vice-Chancellor Professor Graham Baldwin said: “Changing our name to the University of Lancashire better reflects our regional economic importance and will aid continuing efforts to raise brand awareness further afield.
“Attracting more people to live and study in the North West is an important strategic objective we share with local government.
Changing our name allows us to better cement our brand position and build on our recruitment efforts both nationally and internationally.”
Expectations are that by September 2025; the University of Lancashire will be operating fully under its new name.
Signage around the Preston, Burnley and West Cumbrian campuses will be one of the first changes people will start to see.
External signage already in place will have the word ‘central’ removed.
Big changes that need to be made digitally to ensure prospective students can find the University via search engines easily and quickly will also be prioritised and over time the website domain name will change to https://www.lancashire.ac.uk
“The University is the county’s largest provider of graduate-level qualifications and one of the largest universities in the North West,” explained Professor Baldwin.
“As an established civic pillar across the county and an important member of several pan Lancashire partnerships, we work with both public and private sector organisations on various matters affecting Lancashire.
“Locally the acronym UCLan was widely used but for many outside the region they don’t know it was the title of a university nor where it was located.
By changing our name, we will highlight the fact that we are a respected university and operate predominantly across the county of Lancashire.
“Our history can be traced back to 1828 and in four years' time we’ll be celebrating our 200-year anniversary.
Our alumni over the many years we have been in operation continue to be very important to us.”
University timeline
1828 – Founded as the ‘Institution for the Diffusion of Knowledge’.
1882 – Following a substantial donation from the Trustees of Edmund Robert Harris, we changed our name to the ‘Harris Institute’.
1956 – Following a government re-organisation of technical education, our name changed to the ‘Harris College’.
1973 – The Harris College was designated by Central Government as a polytechnic and became ‘Preston Polytechnic’.
1984 – Preston Polytechnic changed its name to ‘Lancashire Polytechnic’.
1992 – Lancashire Polytechnic became the ‘University of Central Lancashire’ after the Government bestowed degree-awarding powers to polytechnics.
2007 – New logo to emphasise the abbreviation 'UCLan'.
2020 – In September 2020, the University launched its new brand, with a new logo and colour scheme to emphasise its position as a place of learning, where opportunity creates success

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/academics/lubaina-himid:
Lubaina is research active within the area of Art and Design: History, Theory and Practice and is a member of Making Histories Visible at The Centre for Contemporary Art.
Lubaina has won the award for the Turner Prize 2017, one of the world’s most prestigious art awards.
In 2018 Lubaina was made a Commander of The Order of the British Empire (CBE) for her services to art.
As a painter, writer and curator Lubaina Himid has participated at an international level in exhibitions conferences books and films on the visual art of the Black Diaspora since the early 1980’s.
Naming the Money(2004) which also appeared as part of the V&A exhibition Uncomfortable Truths (2007), Swallow Hard : The Lancaster Dinner service (2007) and Talking on Corners Speaking in Tongues (2007) were all central to the cultural events surrounding the commemoration of the 200th anniversary the Abolition of the Slave Trade in Britain.
Her contribution to the publication (2005) and conference(2001) Shades of Black Assembling Black Arts in 1980s Britain at Duke University in the U.S.A.
spoke of the importance of black artists archiving the history of their own visual contribution.
In Fabrications at CUBE in Manchester a group show in which with her monumental installation Cotton.
Com (2002) she explored the tangible yet hidden links between the factories in Manchester and the fields of Carolina.
For Inside the Invisible (2001) commissioned by The Leprosy Museum in Bergen she examined the twin dilemmas of identity and belonging, which developed out of the questions asked in the solo exhibitions Plan B at Tate St Ives and Zanzibar at Oriel Mostyn in 2000.; how can you tell the difference between safety and danger.
Curating exhibitions and small interventions in spaces such as the Bowes Museum County Durham (2004) and educational, cultural and community venues in the north west has recently been central to her practice as a visual art facilitator and cultural activist.
As part of the larger project started in the early 80’s with shows such as the Thin Black Line (1986) and Black Woman Time Now(1983) devised to highlight the contribution black artists have made to visual art in Britain, she has with Susan Walsh in collaboration with the Interpretation and Education Team at Tate Liverpool, produced and distributed Open Sesame (2005) and The Point of Collection (2007) These are two DVD/text research documents which examine and reveal the contribution made to the exhibition education and collecting strategies at Tate in recent decades by artists of African, African/American, Asian and Caribbean descent.
Lubaina Himid’s work has been profiled as part of the #100 Works that Belong to You project which celebrates 12 years of acquisitions by the Outset/Frieze Art Fair Fund to benefit the Tate Collection (OFT).
100 works by 69 artists were acquired for the National Collection by OFT between 2003 and 2014 and the video profiling Lubaina’s work can be accessed via Vimeo .
Lubaina was awarded an MBE in June 2010 for services to black women's art.
She has spent her 35-year career shining a light on the trade in enslaved people and the contribution made by the people of the Black Diaspora.
In 2019 the Royal Academy of Arts elected Lubaina as a Royal Academician in the category of Painting .
Lubaina helped to organise the Creative Conversations: Black Women Artists Making and Doing two-day symposium in January 2020.
In this video , Lubaina and PhD Student Jade Montserrat tell us about the event which was a major celebration of black women’s art in Britain, marking over 40 years of black female artists making an impact in the UK.
Lubaina is a member of Making Histories Visible at The Centre for Contemporary Art.
Research:
Publications:
Himid, Lubaina (2012) Kangas from the lost sample book .
[Artefact]
Himid, Lubaina (2011) Thin Black Line(s).
[Show/Exhibition]
Himid, Lubaina (2010) Jelly Pavilions at Liverpool 2010 Jelly Pavilions Leeds Art Gallery Northern Art Prize 2011 .
Himid, Lubaina (2011) What are monuments for?
Possible landmarks on the urban map Paris/London .
In: 8th Collegium for African American Research (CAAR) Conference - Black Knowledge, Black Struggle, Civil Rights, 25-29th March 2009, Bremen, Germany.
(Unpublished)
Projects:
Naming the Money 100 painted life sized wooden cut outs exploring the trauma of enslavement, the struggle for belonging and strategies for survival.
Invited keynote papers on this work were delivered at: The Art & Diasporas conference at the Clarke Institute Massachusetts April 2008 The Society for Multi Ethnic studies: Europe and Americas conference in June 2008 a The Collegium for African American Research conference on Diasporas and Migration in March 2009.
Common Wild Flowers Kangas and Other Stories a series of paintings in which audience is asked to engage in discussion around cross cultural exchange contribution visibility and representation.
Works from this series will form part of commissions for museum trails and interventions during 2008 and 2009.
Negative positives a series of Guardian newspaper pages gathered during one year in which the subtle narratives behind photographs and headlines relating to people from Africa and the Black Diaspora are revealed, using painted patterns and strategic juxtapositions.
Exhibitions and events:
Lubaina Himid was curator of the ContemporaryAnd (C&) ‘Carte de Visite' exhibition at Hollybush Gardens in London from 04 Dec 2015 - 23 Jan 2016.
For more details about the exhibition visit Contemporary And (C&) website .
2019:
February:
March:
April:
May
June
August
September
October
November
Email: Email: Professor Lubaina Himid

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/legal/course-disclaimer:
We understand that you want to research potential Universities and courses in good time and we endeavour to ensure information on our website is regularly updated.
However, whilst the courses described are those that we plan to offer, the information may have been released far in advance of the academic year(s) in which you are interested and may therefore be subject to change at a later date.
For example, admissions requirements, course content and delivery can be subject to change to enable the course to deliver a better quality of educational experience to students enrolled on the course.
This can be in response to various factors including student feedback; annual reports from external examiners; feedback from the sector or industry advisors or as part of the regular review process by course teams.
Therefore, all reasonable care has been taken to ensure all course information contained on this website is accurate, however, the University cannot guarantee that all courses will be available in exactly the form and detail described and it may be necessary to vary the content or availability of some courses.
Applicants are encouraged to check information on our relevant course pages from time to time, particularly before submitting an application for their academic year of study.
For details about changes to course information after you have accepted an offer, please see our Conditions of Offer on our Student Regulations and Policies page
Some courses are subject to formal course approval which may result in changes to the course structure or availability.
For students holding current offers whose course has been subject to validation, please see the conditions of offer sent to you, the current version of which can be found on our Student Regulations and Policies page .
We are committed to ensuring our courses remain accurate, up to date, relevant and of benefit to its students.
As part of this process courses are subject to periodic review which may result in changes to the course structure.
The timing of anticipated reviews of courses are noted on course pages where relevant.
The University is also currently reviewing all of its curriculum to be in line with a new Institutional Curriculum Framework which came into operation from September 2020.
The Curriculum Framework has been designed to ensure that consistent elements are embedded into all of our provision and there is parity of student experience and opportunities.
It is anticipated that this review will be completed by August 2023.
Our University entry requirements will vary depending on the individual course and the year of entry.
Any reference to typical entry qualification or grades stated on the website is provided as a guide only.
There is no guarantee that applicants who have or are predicted to achieve, grades equivalent to or exceeding typical entry qualifications or grades will be made an offer by the University of Central Lancashire.
For students with qualifications gained outside of the United Kingdom, you can seek an indication of the qualifications typically required to gain entry to one of our courses by using the ‘Find Your Country’ feature where you will find country-specific information about qualifications
For further details about our approach to entry requirements and admissions, please see our Admissions Policy on our Student Regulations and Policies page .
Any offer of a place made to you by the University is on the basis that, in accepting such an offer, you agree to the University’s Terms and Conditions, which form part of the contract between you and the University.
A copy of the University’s current terms and conditions of offer can be found our Student Regulations and Policies page .
The contract between you and the University is anticipated to be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of England and Wales and any dispute handled by the courts of England and Wales.
If you live outside of England and Wales you may have rights in law to bring legal proceedings in your local courts and you should seek advice in relation to such matters.
The University’s contract with its students does not confer benefits on third parties.
Information on fees detailed on this website are also correct at the time of publish and are likely to be subject to an inflationary increase, and also at the time, the university makes an offer to study on a particular course.
You can find information about general additional costs on our webpage.
Some modules relating to a course are mandatory and others are optional.
Please note that it may not be possible to deliver the full list of options every year.
Delivery of modules will depend on factors such as changes to theory and practice in the field, student and professional feedback and how many students choose that particular option.
When accepting your offer of a place to study on this course, you should be aware that not all of these optional modules will be running.
At (or before) the start of each year, you will have an opportunity to discuss your course and preferred options with your tutor.
The University tries to ensure that you are able to undertake your preferred options, but cannot guarantee this.
The content of our site may be used for personal purposes only.
Our written consent is required for any other use.
There is always a risk attached to using or downloading from the internet.
Please ensure that anything you download from our site is virus checked by up-to-date virus software.
We do not exercise editorial control on the content of our site other than on official corporate documents.
We do not endorse, approve or give any warranty on any other site (or the content of such site) to which we offer links.
All liability for loss and damage arising from your use of our site is excluded (except where death or personal injury arises from our negligence or loss or damage arises from any fraud on our part).
The term "use of our site" includes (but is not limited to): reliance on information contained on our site, downloading materials and using links from one part of our site to another or to other sites on the internet.
From time to time we may publish our league table results on our course pages to highlight key satisfaction ratings for our subject areas and the source where they came from.
In relation to this information, please note the following: Guardian University Guide Scores and ranks are based on subject level data for the course the stat related to.
A subject may contain one or more courses.
National Student Survey (NSS) Scores are based on course-level data but ranks are based on subject level data for the course the stat related to (non-specific).
Complete University Guide Scores and ranks are based on subject level data for the course the stat related to.
Times Good University Guide Scores and ranks are based on subject level data for the course the stat related to.
We hope that you are happy with your experience at the University of Central Lancashire.
If not, please contact us .

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/legal/academic-quality:
We provide professional support for the development and enhancement of academic quality functions across the University.
Colleagues external to the University should use the button below to access policies, procedures and forms.
In order to access this area, colleagues should either be signed in to their browser with their UCLan ID, or request access under their own Microsoft 365 organisation.
For further support please email the Course Approval inbox.
Thank you for agreeing to act as an external adviser to the University of Central Lancashire.
The following documentation and pro forma are designed to provide you with guidance on your role.
Event specific information will be provided to you separately.
Please complete the expenses form after the event and return it to the Reporting Officer.
Original receipts are required to ensure you are not taxed on out of pocket expenses.
You may be asked to provide a written report ahead of the event and a template for this will be provided to you.
External Advisors will be given access to course documentation to review and are asked to provide comments and questions on a collaborative agenda (the link to which will be provided by your Academic Quality Unit contact at least one week ahead of the event date).
The External Examiner system is an integral part of the University’s quality assurance and enhancement processes.
External Examiners play a crucial role in the maintenance of academic standards, ensuring assessment processes are conducted fairly and in accordance with our academic framework.
We value the contribution made by External Examiners and draw on feedback to enhance the student experience, learning and teaching and quality processes.
Schools are required to respond formally to suggestions for action from External Examiners.
Responsibilities of the External Examiner
View the External Examiner's Handbook
Your appointment as External Examiner to the University of Central Lancashire is subject to the University receiving evidence of your right to work in the UK.
This evidence must be received prior to your appointment.
In order to comply with the Immigration, Asylum and Nationality Act 2006, all External Examiners must confirm their eligibility to work in the UK.
External Examiners’ eligibility to work in the UK will have to be checked in person for all External Examiners upon appointment.
As External Examiners do not normally attend the University immediately upon their appointment, the following process will apply:
Please note that we do not accept certified copies as evidence of right to work.
If you do not provide your right to work documents in accordance with the above procedure, the University will be unable to confirm your appointment as an External Examiner and will not be able to set you up on our systems and/or make any payment to you in relation to the role.
All new External Examiners are required to engage with the online induction training.
We recognise that all External Examiners have had considerable experience in assessing student work at undergraduate or postgraduate level, however university systems of assessment do vary from one institution to another.
The aim of our External Examiners Induction training is to provide you with information regarding:
Our induction materials are currently in the process of being updated.
Your feedback is extremely important to the University.
Each year you will be asked to provide feedback in a variety of ways which include:
Upon receipt, your annual report will be considered by staff within the Academic Quality Unit and the relevant School.
You will receive a response highlighting any actions that the School, College or University may need to take as a result of your feedback.
Your report and feedback will also be shared with students.
The Academic Quality Unit produces an annual overview of all reports received by the University.
In addition, the University of Central Lancashire appoints an Institutional Examiner to review this report and provide external feedback on the External Examiner system in place.
External Examiners are required to submit their annual report within six weeks of the final boards taking place for the academic session.
The annual fee payment is not automatically generated upon receipt of your report.
You must complete a fee/expense claim form each year to receive payment of your fee.
The fee/expense claim form should be submitted to the External Examiners email address upon submission of your annual report to ensure that your fee and expenses are paid promptly.
If you require any further information or documentation please email us .

New sentences found on https://uclan.ac.uk/legal/financial-information:
We are committed to providing a corporate and professional service at all times.
Please find our information below, including our regulations, policies and procedures.
To view the available statutory accounts of the University Group, select a year from below.
If you require a plain text version of these documents please email the Web Team
A copy of our group financial regulations, including delegated legal authorities can be found below:
Sustainability is one of the key priorities in tour strategic plan that runs from 2021 until our 200th anniversary in 2028.
Read our policy to find out more.
+44 (0)1772 893800
Email PurchaseInvoices@uclan.ac.uk – a no-reply inbox for submission of invoices and credit notes only
Email PurchaseToPay@uclan.ac.uk – a contact inbox for existing and prospective suppliers
01772 891828 (Option 5)
BankTreasury@uclan.ac.uk
caccounts@uclan.ac.uk