# Site: https://www.uhi.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 493
# --------

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk:
See all courses >
Undergraduate >
Postgraduate >
Professional >
Online >
Explore our subject areas >
Ready to find out more about studying with us?
Let’s explore
    >
4th in Scotland for student satisfaction
1st postgraduate satisfaction in Scotland
75% research world leading or internationally excellent
Highest wellbeing in Scotland
Welcoming students from 51 countries
No matter which campus you choose, you will have a student experience like no other.
With over 48 campuses dotted across Scotland, we pride ourselves on our connection to our breathtaking landscapes and rich community.
Discover:
Discover Argyll Forest Park, the UK’s oldest forest park, with miles of forests, perfect for mountain biking and hiking.
Explore the magical Puck’s Glen, a dramatic gorge named after the fairy Puck, from Shakespeare’s ‘A Midsummer Night’s Dream’.
With 23 islands to explore, discover endless stunning beaches on the beautiful islands of Jura, Islay and Arran.
Or try wreck diving- dive down to the seafloor and explore over 20 different shipwrecks around Dunoon.
Only 40 minutes from Glasgow, you can get the great wilderness of Scotland, with the warm Highland welcome of Argyll.
Learn in the capital of the Highlands.
A stone's throw away from the Cairngorm National Park- the largest National Park in the UK- Inverness is an extraordinary location for hiking, camping and world-class water and winter sports.
As the start and end point of the North Coast 500, a Lonely Planet must-do experience, (2019), you’ll never be stuck for something to do, with unforgettable glens, lochs, mountains and beaches on your doorstep.
Based in the UK's most culture-rich city (The Times 2019), Inverness is shaped by the region’s rich cultural heritage, from its language and history to its stunning natural environment and vibrant arts scene.
Once known as the capital of Scotland due to its favour with royalty, Perth is a bustling, compact and beautiful city with many restaurants, bars, shops and an award-winning concert hall and theatre.
Perth sits at the gateway to the Highlands and Islands of Scotland, containing breathtakingly stunning scenery and a rich cultural heritage.
Fantastic for seeing wildlife and thrilling outdoor activities, with hill-walking, skiing, snowboarding, mountain biking, white-water rafting, horse-riding, golf, fishing, canoeing and climbing, amongst other adventurous opportunities, are all on our doorstep.
Being only one hour from Edinburgh and Glasgow, Perth has been voted one of the best places in the country to live and is one of the friendliest and safest cities in the UK.
Choose from HTC’s bases of Dingwall, Perth or Paisley.
Base yourself at Dingwall in the Highlands, with Inverness just 15 minutes away.
Dingwall or “Þingvöllr”, was once the Viking capital of Scotland.
It is just a stone's throw from the Black Isle, which is known for culture and craft, seafood and wood-fired pizzas.
Or choose the Paisley campus, just outside of Glasgow, or Perth, where you will get the best of the Highlands while still being close to Edinburgh and Glasgow.
With 65,000 titles, our library is one of the most significant theological libraries in the country.
We have several special collections including the Rutherford House library, the William Temple collection from the Rylands library and Migne’s Patrologia from the Fort Augustus Abbey library.
Offering a broader range of options than any single college or university
Work with world-leading academics to develop your business
Upskill or reskill, we can accredit training, help with apprenticeships, and so much more
We offer unparalleled natural laboratories and opportunities to support world-class research across a wide range of disciplines.
Our researchers work across teams, networks and locations throughout the region and internationally.
Our research focuses on:
News
Site Links
Partners
UHI is a diverse and flexible partnership serving our communities and connected to their needs.
Service desk
© UHI Registered office: UHI House, Old Perth Road, Inverness, IV2 3JH Contact us Accessibility Statement
University of the Highlands and Islands, UHI, their Gaelic equivalents and the mountains and water device are all trademarks and/or registered trademarks of the University of the Highlands and Islands.
Limited company registered in Scotland No.
148203.
Registered Scottish Charity No.
SC022228, VAT No.
663990005.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/staff:
More resources
    >
Staff have free access to LinkedIn Learning - an online library of instructional videos on creative and business skills as well as the latest software.
Follow UHI on LinkedIn

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/alumni:
Stay in touch and make the most of the opportunities, connections, and benefits that come with being a UHI alum.
Let's keep the journey going!

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/gd:
Faic a h-uile cùrsa >
Fo-cheumnach >
Iar-cheumnach >
Proifeiseanta >
Air-loidhne >
Rannsaich na raointean cuspair againn >
Deiseil airson tuilleadh fiosrachaidh mu bhith ag ionnsachadh leinn?
Dèanamaid forfhais
    >
4th ann an Alba airson sàsachd oileanaich
1d a thaobh sàsachadh iar-cheumnach ann an Alba
75% den rannsachadh air thoiseach san t-saoghal no sàr-mhath aig an ìre eadar-nàiseanta
Na 10 oilthighean as ruigsinniche a thaobh costas san RA
A’ cur fàilte air oileanaich à 51 dùthaich
Ge bith cò an àrainn a thaghas sibh, is e fèin-fhiosrachadh oileanaich gun samhail a bhios agaibh.
Le còrr is 48 àrainn sgapte air feadh na h-Alba, tha sinn moiteil às a’ cheangal a th’ againn ri ar cruthan-tìre iongantach agus ar coimhearsnachd shaidhbhir.
Cuiridh sibh eòlas air:
Faigh a-mach mu Phàirc Coille Earra-Ghàidheal, a’ phàirc choilltean as sine san RA, le mìltean de choilltean, foirfe airson rothaireachd beinne agus coiseachd.
Rannsaich Gleann draoidheil Puck, mòr-ghil a chaidh ainmeachadh às deidh an t-sìthiche Puck, bho ‘A Midsummer Night’s Dream’ aig Shakespeare.
Le 23 eileanan ri rannsachadh, lorg tràighean iongantach gun chrìoch air eileanan brèagha Dhiùra, Ìle agus Arainn.
No feuch ri dàibheadh air an long-bhriseadh - dàibheadh sìos gu grunnd na mara agus rannsaich còrr air 20 long-bhriseadh eadar-dhealaichte timcheall air Dùn Omhain.
Dìreach 40 mionaid bho Ghlaschu, gheibh thu fàsach mòr na h-Alba, le fàilte bhlàth Earra-Ghàidheal.
Ionnsaichibh ann am prìomh-bhaile na Gàidhealtachd.
Dìreach astar beag bho Phàirc Nàiseanta a’ Mhonaidh Ruaidh - a’ Phàirc Nàiseanta as motha san RA - is e àite air leth a th’ ann an Inbhir Nis airson coiseachd, campachadh agus spòrsachan uisge is geamhraidh aig ìre chruinneil.
Ann an seo aig toiseach is deireadh Shlighe a’ Chosta a Tuath 500, rud as do-sheachnaichte eòlas a chur air, a rèir Lonely Planet (2019), cha bhi sibh uair sam bith gun rudeigin ri dhèanamh, le glinn, lochan, beanntan agus tràighean do-dhìochuimhnichte air an stairsich agaibh.
Agus e air a’ bhaile-mhòr as saidhbire ann an cultar san RA (The Times 2019), tha Inbhir Nis air a chumadh le dualchas cultarach saidhbhir na sgìre, bho a chànan agus a eachdraidh chun na h-àrainneachd nàdarra iongantach aige agus a’ bheothalachd a th’ ann a thaobh saoghal nan ealain.
Tha Peairt, ris an abradh iad prìomh-bhaile na h-Alba aig aon àm, air sgàth cho measail ’s a bha a’ mhuinntir rìoghail air, na bhaile-mòr trang, cruinn agus brèagha le mòran thaighean-bìdh, bhàraichean, bhùthan agus talla-ciùil is taigh-cluiche duaisichte.
Tha Peairt air stairsneach Ghàidhealtachd is Eileanan na h-Alba, le seallaidhean a tha ro-iongantach air fad agus dualchas cultarach saidhbhir.
Fìor mhath airson fiadh-bheatha fhaicinn agus gnìomhachdan gaoireil air a’ bhlàr a-muigh, le coiseachd chnoc, sgìtheadh, bòrdadh-sneachda, rothaireachd beinne, ràthadaireachd bras-uisge, marcachd, goilf, iasgach, curachanachd agus streap, am measg chothroman eile air dàna-spòrs, uile air an stairsnich againn.
Is gun e ach uair a thìde bho Dhùn Èideann agus Glaschu, chaidh Peairt a bhòtadh mar aon de na h-àiteachan as fheàrr san dùthaich a bhith a’ fuireach ann agus is e aon de na bailtean-mòra as càirdeile agus as sàbhailte san RA.
Tagh bho àrainnean HTC ann an Inbhir Pheofharain, Peairt no Pàislig.
Stèidhich thu fhèin ann an Inbhir Pheofharain air a’ Ghàidhealtachd, le Inbhir Nis dìreach 15 mionaidean air falbh.
Bha Inbhir Pheofharain neo “Þingvöllr”, uaireigin na phrìomh-bhaile Lochlannach na h-Alba.
Chan eil ann ach tilgeil cloiche bhon Eilean Dubh, a tha ainmeil airson cultar is ciùird, biadh mara agus piotsa air teine-fiodha.
No tagh àrainn Phàislig, dìreach taobh a-muigh Ghlaschu, no Peairt, far am faigh thu a’ chuid as fheàrr den Ghàidhealtachd fhad ‘s a tha thu fhathast faisg air Dùn Èideann agus Glaschu.
Le 65,000 tiotal, tha an leabharlann againn mar aon de na leabharlannan diadhachd as cudromaiche san dùthaich.
Tha grunn chruinneachaidhean sònraichte againn a’ gabhail a-steach leabharlann Taigh Rutherford, cruinneachadh Uilleam Temple bho leabharlann Rylands agus Patrologia Migne bho leabharlann Abaid Chille Chuimein.
A’ tabhann farsaingeachd nas motha de roghainnean na colaiste no oilthigh fa leth sam bith
Obraichibh còmhla ri luchd-acadaimigeach den chàileachd as àirde san t-saoghal gus ur gnothachas a leasachadh
Àrdaichibh ur sgilean no togaibh sgilean ùra, is urrainn dhuinn trèanadh a chreideasachadh, cuideachadh le preantasachdan, agus mòran a bharrachd
Tha sinn a’ tabhann obair-lannan nàdarra agus cothroman gun choimeas gus taic a thoirt do rannsachadh aig ìre chruinneil tarsainn farsaingeachd mhòr de chuspairean.
Bidh an luchd-rannsachaidh againn ag obair tarsainn sgiobaidhean, lìonraidhean agus suidheachaidhean air feadh na sgìre agus aig an ìre eadar-nàiseanta.
Tha ar rannsachadh a’ cuimseachadh gu sònraichte air:
Bloga ThinkUHI
Com-pàirtichean
Oilthigh na Gàidhealtachd agus nan Eilean ; com-pàirteachas sònraichte de cholaistean agus ionadan rannsachaidh.
Desg seirbheis
© UHI Oifis chlàraichte: Taigh UHI, Seann Rathad Pheairt, Inbhir Nis, Alba IV2 3JH Cuir fios thugainn Aithris Ruigsinneachd
Tha Oilthigh na Gàidhealtachd agus nan Eilean, UHI, na teirmichean sin sa Bheurla agus an suaicheantas bheanntan agus uisge uile nan comharraidhean malairt agus/no nan comharraidhean malairt clàraichte aig Oilthigh na Gàidhealtachd agus nan Eilean.
Chompanaidh earranta clàraichte an Alba, Àir.
Àireamh Charthannais Albannaich Chlàraichte SC022228, Àireamh VAT 663990005.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/hi:
इस पेज का अभी तक अनुवाद नहीं हुआ है।
यदि आप इस पेज काअनुवाद करना चाहते हैं, तो कृपया इस फ़ॉर्म का इस्तेमाल करें , URL के सहित अपनी मनचाही भाषा बताते हुए.
(स्कॉटिश गेलिक, आयरिश गेलिक या हिंदी)
हम आपके अनुरोध के जवाब में और विश्लेषण के आधार पर वेबसाइट पर दी गयी जानकारी का अनुवाद करने को प्राथमिकता देते हैं। हमें उम्मीद है कि आप हमारे अंग्रेजी भाषा के पेज पर आवश्यक जानकारी पा सकेंगे।
सेवा डेस्क
© UHI Registered office: UHI House, Old Perth Road, Inverness, IV2 3JH संपर्क करें सुलभता विवरणिका
हाइलैंड्स एंड आइलैंड्स विश्वविद्यालय, UHI, उनके गेलिक समकक्ष, और पहाड़ और पानी की डिज़ाइन सभी हाइलैंड्स एंड आइलैंड्स विश्वविद्यालय के ट्रेडमार्क और / या पंजीकृत ट्रेडमार्क हैं। लिमिटेड कंपनी नंबर 148203 स्कॉटलैंड में पंजीकृत है। पंजीकृत स्कॉटिश चैरिटी नंबर SC022228, VAT नंबर 663990005। यह एक मिलेनियम कमीशन लॉटरी प्रोजेक्ट है।

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/ga:
Níor aistríodh an leathanach seo go fóill.
Más mian leat go n-aistreofar an leathanach seo, bain úsáid as an bhfoirm teagmhála seo, lena n-áirítear URL an leathanaigh agus teanga an aistriúcháin atá de dhíth (Gaeilge na hAlban, Gaeilge na hÉireann nó Hiondúis) i do theachtaireacht.
Tugaimid tosaíocht d’aistriú an ábhair don suíomh gréasáin de réir iarratas agus bunaithe ar ár gcuid anailísíochta.
Tá súil againn go raibh tú in ann an fhaisnéis a bhí uait a fháil ar ár leathanach (leathanaigh) Béarla.
Deasc seirbhíse
© UHI Oifig chláraithe: Taigh UHI, Seann Rathad Pheairt, Inbhir Nis, Alba IV2 3JH Teagmháil linn Ráiteas inrochtaineachta
Is trádmharcanna agus / nó trádmharcanna cláraithe de chuid Ollscoil na Gàidhealtachd agus na nOileán iad ainm Ollscoil na Gàidhealtachd agus na nOileán, OGE, agus a leagan Béarla agus íomhánna na sléibhte agus na mara.
Cuideachta theoranta cláraithe in Albain Uimh.
Uimhir Chláraithe Charthanachta in Albain SC022228, Uimhir CBL 663990005.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/ja:
Wi no chransiliet da piej ya yet.
If yu waahn wi fi chransiliet da piej ya den mek wi nuo ina da faam ya .
Mek shuor se ina yu mesij yu sen di lingk tu di piej we yu waant wi fi chransiliet an tel wi wich langwij yu waant wi chransiliet it ina (Skats Gielik, Airish Gielik, Hindi, ar Jamiekan).
Wi chransiliet di difrant piej pan di websait bies pan wich wan piipl tel wi se dem waahn fi riid ina wan neda langwij an bies pan wich piej get nof vizita.
Wi uop se yu kyan fain wa yu riili waant pan di piej dem we ina Ingglish.
© UHI Registered office: UHI House, Old Perth Road, Inverness, IV2 3JH Lingk wi Accessibility Statement
University of the Highlands and Islands, UHI, di Gielik vorjan, di mountn dem, an di waata divais,  a bizniz maak we di University of the Highlands and Islands rejista.
It a wahn limitid kompini we rejista ina Scotland No.
Ofishal Scottish Chariti No.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses:
Course enquiries >
Download our prospectus

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/studying-at-uhi:
Home to:
Coming from school
Coming from College
Returning to study
Looking to upskill
Not sure?
Start your journey >
Applicant hub >
Current students >

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/campuses:
We are the only university located in the Highlands and Islands, Moray and Perthshire in Scotland, and we offer a unique approach to learning.
With 48 college campuses and learning centres, research institutes and specialist learning centres spread across Scotland you can choose to study in person at a location near you or access our programmes online from anywhere in the world.
To explore study options in your local community, visit our individual partner websites.
Partner campus information:
This UHI map is intended for illustrative purposes, serving as a visual representation of our various locations.
Please visit the links above for more detail about our campuses and centres.
We have many accommodation options , including dedicated halls of residence.
Accommodation information
Are you looking for a event venue in the Highlands and Islands, Moray and Perthshire?
We offer serviced spaces from specialist facilities, meeting rooms and sports facilities.
Many of our venues include video conferencing facilities, to allow for online and blended meetings.
Venue booking

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/research-enterprise:
Collaborative research, four key themes
Below you can explore our areas of expertise by either going straight to your area of interest or looking at the thematic overviews.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/business:
UHI is more than a traditional university.
Our mission is to have a transformational impact on our people, communities and economy.
Our annual student body of 36,000 students are developing specialist knowledge in a wide range of subjects, as well as the innovation, employability and enterprise skills that will support the future of local, national and global businesses.
Our researchers play a vital role in solving real-world problems and offering advice, knowledge and expertise to businesses, organisations and industries of all sizes in Scotland, the UK and beyond.
Whether you are a start-up, a social enterprise, public sector organisation, a local SME or a multinational, we invite you to engage with us and learn more about how we can help your organisation succeed.
We offer serviced spaces from specialist facilities, meeting rooms and sports facilit ies.
Conferences, events and meetings
	>

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/studying-at-uhi/open-days:
We hold open days and information sessions throughout the year, and visiting us on campus is a great first step to studying at university.
At an open day, you will:
Book now
Courses
Accommodation
Funding and fees
Student support
CONTACT US
If you can't make an open day, we are happy to organise a visit at another time.
Please get in touch with the campus you would like to study at:
Our campuses can be found across Scotland - if you're unsure which campus to contact, take a look at our map .

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/students:
Information for new and returning students
A warm welcome to the new semester!
Whether you're returning after the summer break or joining us for the first time, we're thrilled to have you as part of our vibrant academic community.
We're delighted to tell you that once again our students have rated us amongst the highest in the country in national surveys.
This year is filled with exciting opportunities for growth and discovery.
You will learn from some of the country's top lecturers, delve into subjects you're passionate about, and build friendships that can last a lifetime.
Embrace every moment, challenge yourself, and make the most of all the experiences that studying with us offers.
Get involved!
Join the student associations’ clubs and societies, volunteer in the local community, and utilise our many resources, including the fantastic careers service .
Remember, it's okay to face challenges along the way; one of our greatest strengths is the comprehensive support we offer our students.
If you ever need help, don't hesitate to reach out to student services - they're here to assist you at every step.
Our website is packed with valuable information about the support available, and don't forget to regularly check your student email for important updates throughout the year.
We're confident that you will accomplish great things this year.
If there's anything more we can do to enhance your experience, please share your thoughts using our Red Button feedback service.
Wishing you a fantastic year ahead!
Who are Your Students’ Association and what can we do for you?
#ForStudentsByStudents
Made up of elected student officers and employed staff, Your Students’ Association represents you as a student here on campus.
We ensure that your voice shapes and influences decisions made about the education delivered and student experience at local, management and national level.
We are passionate about helping to nurture a friendly and thriving student community on campus.
If you want positive change then we, your elected officers, student voice reps and Your Students’ Association team are here to support you to achieve it.
You are automatically a member of Your Students’ Association and therefore entitled to all these amazing benefits!
Find out more on our website and follow us on social media!

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/studying-at-uhi/subject-areas:
Unsure exactly what course you want to study, then why not explore the broader subject areas UHI offers.
Our programmes reflect the culture, natural environment, and the economic needs of our region.
Our students choose to study with us whether they are from the most remote communities in our region or from anywhere in the world.
With a full range of further and higher education courses there is something for everyone: school leavers to adult learners, with access courses through to PhD, allowing our students to create their own unique learner journey.
Course enquiries
Full course list

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/studying-at-uhi/accommodation:
Starting at university can be a daunting prospect, especially if you are moving away from home.
We want you to get the most out of your studies - and your social life.
Finding the right accommodation to suit you will help you to settle quickly into life as a student.
For further assistance or if you have any questions please contact student.accommodation@uhi.ac.uk
We have a range of accommodation options available to students, from our own student residences to private rented local accommodation.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/studying-at-uhi/international:
On our unique programmes converge on what's special about this region, so you can be inspired by our extraordinary landscapes and innovative teaching, and achieve your ambitions:
UndergraD
Postgrad
Research
online
"I love this course because our lecturers are renowned scientists in their field, and it's so inspiring to be taught by them."
"It's hands on with a small number of students per class, so you have a very personal connection to your lecturer."
Janne, from Germany, studied BSc (Hons) Marine Science with Oceanography and Robotics
Get an overview of our courses, what it's like to study at UHI and information about fees and funding.
"One of my favourite things about this course is the hands-on experience throughout the four years of UHI and AST (Air Service Training) learning."
"This was truly a life changing experience; I’ve learnt so much and I have met so many new people."
Abdalla, a dual citizen of Egypt and Italy, studied BSc (Hons) Aircraft Maintenance Engineering and Management
Find the right programme for you this September, whether you're ready to embark on an undergraduate degree or take the next step on a postgraduate challenge:
Explore on-campus courses
Explore online courses

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/studying-at-uhi/student-life:
From Drama to Dungeons and Dragons, Science to Snowsports, join a club or society.
Or represent your fellow students to influence the student experience at UHI.
Get involved >
Each of our 10 campuses provides you with a unique student experience.
Explore our campuses >
From facilities on campus, to discounted gym memberships, to competing in national competitions, get involved in sports at UHI.
Sport at UHI >
Make friends, help people and enhance your employability.
#ThinkUHI
Explore what's happening on campus, off campus, up a mountain, performing at music festivals, whilst canoeing to class or studying online looking out at seaweed eating sheep!
Tag us #ThinkUHI

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/media/news/uhi-literature-student-awarded-peter-may-fiction-prize-.html:
Facebook Facebook Messenger X WhatsApp LinkedIn email 27/08/2025
Lynne Maclagan, from Dunoon, has become the fourth University of the Highlands and Islands (UHI) student to be awarded the prestigious Peter May Fiction Prize for her submission ‘Language of the Birds’.
The prize was established by internationally acclaimed Scottish author Peter May to recognise and celebrate outstanding writing talent among UHI students.
As well as receiving a £1,000 award, winners benefit from feedback and recognition from Peter, whose bestselling novels have sold millions of copies worldwide.
Lynne is studying for a Master of Letters (MLitt) in Highlands and Islands Literature through the UHI Institute for Northern Studies at UHI Orkney.
Her winning entry was chosen by Peter May from a shortlist of five finalists.
Peter May praised Lynne’s work, saying:
“This is the start of a novel that holds great promise.
Lynne writes beautifully, and with great authority and observation.
If Lynne’s storytelling is as good as her writing, then this will be a fine novel.
The standard of submissions this year was very high, but ‘Language of the Birds’ was the one that stood out for me.”
Reflecting on her award, Lynne said:
“Writing can feel like a solitary act; it’s mostly just you and the page.
To know that my words and characters resonated with a writer of Peter May’s calibre gives me a sturdy nudge to keep on going with the novel.
Peter’s sage advice encourages me to lean into leaving more space for the reader.
This prize will also enable me to invest more time in writing and research for the novel, which, as a self-employed person and student, is incredibly helpful.
Thank you, Peter and UHI, for facilitating this award.”
Dr Stephanie Strother, Advancement Manager at UHI, added:
“We are incredibly grateful to Peter for his continued generosity in supporting our students.
Opportunities like this make a huge difference, helping to nurture talent and give students confidence to take their writing forward.”
➕ The next deadline for entries for the Peter May Fiction Prize is 20 April 2026.
This prize is open to all UHI students and recent graduates, regardless of their subject area, and any student with a talent for writing is encouraged to apply.
More information is available at: www.uhi.ac.uk/petermayfictionprize
➕ Interested in studying in MLitt in Highlands and Islands Literature?
This fully online course can be studied from anywhere in the world.
Places are available for September 2025.
Find our more and apply here: MLitt Highlands and Islands Literature.
Facebook Facebook Messenger X WhatsApp LinkedIn email

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/media/news:
27/08/2025
22/08/2025
21/08/2025
19/08/2025
18/08/2025
15/08/2025
13/08/2025
11/08/2025
08/08/2025
06/08/2025
05/08/2025
04/08/2025
01/08/2025
28/07/2025

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/media/news/uhi-shetland-graduation-2025.html:
Facebook Facebook Messenger X WhatsApp LinkedIn email 22/08/2025
Over 100 UHI Shetland students enjoyed a celebratory graduation at Mareel on Friday 22 August.
Due to overwhelming demand, students who completed their studies in a wide variety of subjects, from aquaculture, art, computing, health care amongst many other, in academic year 2024/25 were spaced over two ceremonies.
UHI Shetland were delighted to welcome Captain Calum Grains, Chief Executive of the Lerwick Port Authority, who delivered an inspiring speech on the importance of learning and skills in our islands.
Rachel Baronet, recent teaching graduate, delivered the ever-popular student speech, reflecting on her learning journey and education in Shetland.
Vicki Nairn, Principal and Vice Chancellor at the University of the Highlands and Islands joined UHI Shetland staff and students to celebrate their achievements.
Several special awards were given today:
UHI Shetland Principal Jane Lewis expressed how proud she and the staff are of all the students’ accomplishments.
“Graduation is one of the highlights of the student journey; a fantastic opportunity for our hard-working students, who have put in many hours enhancing their skills and knowledge, to celebrate with their friends, family and colleagues”.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/media/news/helen-budge-mbe-awarded-honorary-doctorate-at-uhi-shetland-graduation-ceremony.html:
The University of the Highlands and Islands (UHI) has awarded a prestigious Honorary Doctorate to Helen Budge MBE at the UHI Shetland graduation ceremony held on Friday 22 August at Mareel in Lerwick, in recognition of her outstanding service to education, children and families in Shetland.
The Honorary Doctorate is one of the highest recognitions the university bestows, celebrating those who have made an outstanding contribution to their field, whether in education, industry, public service, cultural or creative work.
Helen retired in September 2024 after 13 years as Director of Children’s Services at Shetland Islands Council, capping a remarkable career dedicated to the wellbeing and development of young people across the isles.
She began her journey in education in 1989 as a teacher at Urafirth Primary School, later moving to Dunrossness Primary.
Recognised early for her leadership potential, she moved into central management in 1999 and became Director of Children’s Services in 2011.
In this role, Helen oversaw a broad portfolio, including early learning and childcare, primary and secondary education, children’s social work, the library service, sport and leisure, and youth employability.
Her leadership was marked by compassion, clarity and a deep commitment to equity and opportunity for all.
As Senior Responsible Officer for the new Anderson High School and halls of residence, she led the project from its inception in 2015 through to the completion and handover of the buildings in 2017.
Through her work with the Association of Directors of Education in Scotland, the General Teaching Council for Scotland, and the Northern Alliance, she championed the needs of remote and rural communities, ensuring Shetland’s voice was heard nationally.
She also led the Northern Alliance, a collaboration between eight local authorities, for two years during COVID.
During her time as Director of Children’s Services, Helen recognised the importance of UHI Shetland for the development of the young people and staff in children’s services.
She played a key role in developing the original Skills for Work courses, enabling young people to attend the UHI Shetland campuses as part of their studies, and encouraged staff development through local training and qualifications.
A passionate advocate for children and young people, Helen worked tirelessly to ensure that those with care experience were supported and empowered to influence the services affecting them.
Her belief that young people are the experts in their own lives has driven meaningful change in how care and education are delivered in Shetland.
Over a 35-year career since qualifying as a primary teacher, Helen has dedicated herself to supporting the children and young people of Shetland to reach their full potential.
She continues to champion learning, families, and community life across the isles.
Professor Jane Lewis, UHI Shetland’s Principal and CEO, said:
“I’m delighted that Helen has received an Honorary Doctorate from UHI for her contribution to Shetland’s educational landscape over the last 35 years.
Helen has shown deep commitment to young people and their development in order that they can contribute to their local communities and our Shetland economy.
Linked with this, Helen was instrumental in deepening the relationship between local authority education provision and our Shetland based tertiary education sector.
Our strong and collaborative relationship with schools in Shetland allows our courses to meaningfully contribute to the skills and employment pipeline to support Shetland’s workforce needs.”
On receiving the Honorary Doctorate, Helen said:
“I am completely overwhelmed to have been recognised in such a prestigious manner by UHI.
I am humbled by the very kind words related to my service in education and children’s services during my time with Shetland Islands Council.
“I have dedicated my career and service to the bairns and their families here in Shetland.
The staff who have worked with me and supported the bairns and their families through my time with Shetland Islands Council have been truly amazing.
I have always recognised the importance of the strong partnership with UHI which has enhanced the learning opportunities and skills for the bairns and staff across Shetland.
This collaboration has been phenomenal for those who wanted to stay on the island for their studies, which supports the sustainability of Shetland into the future.
I am honoured to have been part of this.”

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/media/news/graduate-spotlight-salon-trio-succeed-in-business-after-training-at-uhi-inverness.html:
Facebook Facebook Messenger X WhatsApp LinkedIn email 21/08/2025
A beauty therapist, hairstylist and barber have all established successful businesses in an Aviemore salon after qualifying at UHI Inverness.
Beauty therapist Velvet McBain from Kingussie runs Velvet’s Beauty Room at The Beach at SunnyDaze.
She chose to study Beauty at UHI Inverness because it was a good course close to home, and she ‘always loved beauty-related things’.
Velvet said: “I enjoyed all the practical elements, especially massages and facials, and it has allowed me to become successful.
I had a full-time job at a spa for two years to gain experience and I now work for myself and have created a successful beauty business.
“The course gave me the basic knowledge in all treatments and the proper training to perform services correctly.
UHI Inverness is a friendly environment, and the courses were interesting and beneficial.
I would say to others to absolutely go for it – once you’ve got that certificate, that’s you – it is 100% worth it.”
Hairstylist Ashley Brown (29) from Kingussie left school shortly after turning 16 and studied a SVQ2 Hairdressing at UHI Inverness.
After taking a few years away from the industry she is now self-employed.
‘The lecturers were great, and the course helped me get a career I love – it is not a course to do just to pass the time, it is very rewarding.
There are opportunities everywhere, if you look for them,” said Ashley.
Georgia Cranston (27) from Aviemore runs her Georgia The Barber business and says studying barbering at UHI Inverness was ‘the best decision I have made’.
Georgia said: “I liked learning new skills, particularly the practical side of cutting.
My course at UHI Inverness is the reason I am now in full-time employment in self-employed barbering.”

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/media/news/first-minister-john-swinney-visits-uhi-shetland.html:
Staff at UHI Shetland were delighted to welcome First Minister for Scotland, John Swinney MSP, to UHI Shetland’s Scalloway Campus.
The visit of the First Minister afforded UHI Shetland the opportunity to showcase the Centre for Sustainable Seafood and the First Minister heard about the Centre’s development of strong relationships and collaboration with a range of key stakeholders who work in the marine environment and their communities.
Staff were keen to demonstrate the exciting potential of this research centre with Mr Swinney, and how the Centre will utilise the knowledge and expertise of these partners to co-create research, gather data and inform policy that is grounded in real-world knowledge and experience.
UHI Shetland staff also discussed Shell-volution, fully funded by the UK Government through the Islands Deal.
Shell-volution is a £4.4 million Islands Growth Deal project aimed at transforming, and in conjunction with, Scotland’s mussel farming sector.
The project aims to create practical solutions for the challenges faced by mussel farmers, whose support and direction is crucial to the project.
UHI is the lead organisation responsible for project delivery, governance and oversight in partnership with the Association of Scottish Shellfish Growers, Seafood Shetland, Scottish Shellfish Marketing Group, Highlands and Islands Enterprise, Crown Estate Scotland, Sustainable Aquaculture Innovation Centre and the Shetland Islands Council.
Under the ‘Supporting Growth and Future Industries’ theme, the initiative is strategically aligned with national priorities, including the UK Government’s economic growth mission and the Scottish Government’s National Strategy for Economic Transformation.
Mr.
Swinney also experienced a demonstration of the upgraded Maritime Bridge Simulator.
As the only Maritime Bridge Simulator of its type in the UK, this state-of-the-art equipment is set to play a pivotal role in facilitating training for both new entrants and experienced seafarers, as well as staff within the aquaculture industry.
The simulator enhances the sustainability of key maritime industries by providing advanced, accessible training opportunities that improve safety and operational efficiency.
The simulator will improve the sustainability of key maritime industries by increasing access to specialised training opportunities for those in the fish-catching, fish-farming and merchant sectors.
By offering tailored training in these areas, UHI Shetland aims to bridge the skill gap and reinforce the capabilities of seafarers, ensuring they are equipped to meet the demands of these sectors.
UHI Shetland Principal and CEO Professor Jane Lewis commented “We welcomed the opportunity to show the First Minister the range of provision offered through UHI Shetland and reflect on the challenges of operating rural colleges.
His visit highlights the importance of our educational and research initiatives and the role we play in the supporting the economy and community of Shetland.”
First Minister John Swinney said ““Innovative institutions like the Centre for Sustainable Seafood at UHI Shetland are helping ensure Scotland’s world-class marine sector continues to be one of our biggest success stories.”
“The Scottish Government will continue to work closely with our partners in industry and academia to help the sector thrive and adapt to the impacts of climate change - as championed in Scottish Government’s Marine Science and Innovation Strategy.”

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/media/news/a-love-letter-to-vanished-trees-uhi-inverness-lecturer-publishes-acclaimed-new-book-on-elms.html:
UHI Inverness academic and author Mandy Haggith has published her latest non-fiction book as a love letter to the millions of vanished trees that have been killed by Dutch elm disease around the world.
The Lost Elms, published by Wildfire, tells the story of how we nearly lost all the elm trees and how scientists are now desperately trying to halt the disease.
Mandy, a Literature and Creative Writing lecturer at UHI Inverness, also takes a lyrical look at the elm's central place in our history, culture and folklore.
A number of Highland events have been held so far this month to launch The Lost Elms.
The latest launch will be at Waterstones Bookshop, Inverness, on Saturday, 23 August at 2pm.
Mandy will talk about and read from the book, take questions and sign copies.
The Lost Elms has already received notable critical acclaim, being named as The Independent's non-fiction book of the month for July, Book of the Day on 23 July in The Guardian and was top of a list of ‘ten books about the outdoors to read this summer’ compiled by The Scotsman, who refer to Mandy as ‘a sort of unofficial poet laureate of our woodlands’.
Mandy lives in Assynt in a remnant of ancient woodland and spent 20 years as a forest activist.
She has previously published poetry, novels and non-fiction based on the themes of trees, bears and the sea.
“This is a very personal book about my own relationship with elms, from childhood loss to my current life in one of the last refuges for these beautiful and culturally and ecologically important trees.
But it’s also deeply researched and takes a global view, and I’m delighted that many people seem to be finding hope and solace among its pages.”
Recent breakthroughs in ecological understanding reveal elms to be far more resilient than we ever imagined.
UHI Inverness has been at the forefront of research aimed at restoring wych elm tree populations in Scotland.
Researchers at the Institute for Biodiversity and Freshwater Conservation have worked in partnership with the Royal Botanic Garden Edinburgh on a study that identified a host of new surviving wych elm that could be used as parent trees to cross-breed survivors that are adapted to different parts of the UK.
The first of these potentially resilient elms was planted by Mandy at the community tree nursery near her home.
•    The Lost Elms is also available as an eBook and audio book.
If you’d like a signed copy posted directly to you visit: Mandy Haggith | The Lost Elms

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/about-uhi:
UHI is an integrated university combining further and higher education — the only institution of its kind in Scotland, and one of few in Europe.
We are more than a college and more than a traditional university: a diverse, flexible partnership, rooted in our communities and driven by their needs.
Our network of colleges, specialist teaching centres and internationally recognised research institutes delivers supported, flexible learning from access level to PhD.
With 48 locations across the Highlands and Islands, Moray and Perthshire, we offer education that’s local in focus and global in reach.
Students are at the heart of everything we do.
Their success is our measure.
Through world-class teaching, research and knowledge exchange, UHI connects our regions to the world — and brings the world to our regions.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/cookies:
Accept all/reject all
Allow strictly necessary cookies
Allow functional cookies
Allow performance cookies
Allow social media/third party cookies
Allow targeting and advertising cookies
All University of the Highlands and Islands websites use Cookies.
Cookies are text files containing small amounts of information which are downloaded to your device when you visit a website.
Cookies are then sent back to the originating website on each subsequent visit, or to another website that recognises that cookie.
Cookies are useful because they allow a website to recognise a user's device.
You can find more information about cookies at www.allaboutcookies.org and www.youronlinechoices.eu .
Cookies do lots of different jobs, like letting you navigate between pages efficiently, remembering your preferences, and generally improve the user experience.
They can also help to ensure that adverts you see online are more relevant to you and your interests.
The cookies used on this website have been categorised based on the categories found in the ICC UK Cookie guide:
These cookies are essential in order to enable you to move around the website and use its features, such as accessing secure areas of the website.
Without these cookies services you have asked for, like shopping baskets or e-billing, cannot be provided.
These are our strictly necessary cookies:
These cookies allow the website to remember choices you make (such as your user name, language or the region you are in) and provide enhanced, more personal features.
These cookies can also be used to remember changes you have made to text size, fonts and other parts of web pages that you can customise.
The information these cookies collect may be anonymised and they cannot track your browsing activity on other websites.
Our website does not currently use functional cookies.
These cookies collect information about how visitors use a website, for instance which pages visitors go to most often, and if they get error messages from web pages.
These cookies don’t collect information that identifies a visitor.
All information these cookies collect is aggregated and therefore anonymous.
Read about how Google safeguards your data .
These are our performance cookies:
Third-party cookies are cookies that are set by a website other than the one you are currently on.
For example, we have Youtube videos and Twitter feeds on our site which may have their own cookies.
We do not control these cookies and while we will try to prevent them if requested, it is better if you block them directly in your browser.
For more details, choose your browser: Chrome , Firefox , Internet Explorer , Safari (these links take you away from our site).
These cookies are used to deliver adverts more relevant to you and your interests They are also used to limit the number of times you see an advertisement as well as help measure the effectiveness of the advertising campaign.
They are usually placed by advertising networks with the website operator’s permission.
They remember that you have visited a website and this information is shared with other organisations such as advertisers.
Quite often targeting or advertising cookies will be linked to site functionality provided by the other organisation.
Our website does not currently use targeting cookies and advertising cookies.
This cookie policy applies to the following University of the Highlands and Islands websites:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/giving:
UHI exists to have a transformational impact on the people, communities and economy of the Highlands and Islands.
At UHI, your donations play a crucial role in enhancing the academic and personal experiences of our students.
Contributions support scholarships, innovative research, and state-of-the-art facilities, empowering students to achieve their fullest potential.
By making a donation, you will play a vital role in shaping the future of UHI.
You will help raise the aspirations of our students and be a part of creating thriving communities and a vibrant economy across the partnership.
Together, we can cultivate an environment where talent thrives and our community prospers.
Thank you for supporting our mission and making a lasting impact on students’ lives and futures.
Donate to us

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/about-uhi/gaelic:
As the only university based in the Highlands and Islands of Scotland, UHI are intensely aware of our responsibilities to enhance the status of Gaelic.
Commitments contained in our Gaelic Language Plan shape the Gaelic services we are able to provide for staff, students and the public.
We aim to translate materials that promote the use of Gaelic and you will see this through our bilingual newsletters, website pages, press releases, signage and much more.
We are able to provide Gaelic learning opportunities and information on resources.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/media:
UHI press office communications@uhi.ac.uk
Blog
UHI Argyll
UHI Inverness
UHI Moray
UHI North, West and Hebrides
UHI Orkney
UHI Perth
UHI Shetland
HTC
Sabhal Mòr Ostaig
SAMS

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/staff/vacancies:
The University of the Highlands and Islands is a distinctive partnership of colleges and research institutions.
We list both university and partner vacancies on this page.
This means that the detail of the recruitment process will vary according to the employing institution - please check the details contained within the vacancy listing to ensure you follow the appropriate application process for the role in which you are interested.
The university will hold and process personal data in order to process your application.
Our privacy notice provides details on how we handle and protect your personal information.
Please refer to our academic partner websites for details of their privacy notices.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/uhi-shop:
We're excited to launch our new online shop, featuring a range of clothing for students, staff and alumni!
Merch made sustainably
All products are custom-made to order by our supplier, Teemill.
We chose Teemill for their dedication to sustainability, using 100% GOTS-certified organic cotton, renewable energy for production, plastic-free packaging and a circular fashion model.
If there’s something you’d like to see in our shop, please let us know by emailing UHI communications and we’ll do our best to make it happen!
Visit the shop
Graduating this year?
Celebrate your achievement with a commemorative Class of 2025 hoodie!
These hoodies have the UHI logo on the front and ‘Class of 2025’ proudly displayed on the back.
If you graduated in a previous year, and would also like your own ‘Class of’ hoodie, just let us know by emailing UHI communications.
The alumni team sell these bears directly.
He is £10 plus £3 for UK postage, with all profits donated to our UHI Scholarship Fund, supporting our current and future students to achieve their potential despite personal circumstances.
With intelligence, heart and forever in its meaning – Ùisdean is the perfect name to represent our graduates and alumni!
If you would like to buy a Ùisdean for yourself or someone you know, please contact our alumni team.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/lis:
The IT and Digital Infrastructure department (formally known as Learning and Information Services (LIS)) provides central support for most of the IT systems used across the university.
It comprises of staff covering a wide range of skills and disciplines with the key goal being to support all staff and learners throughout their educational journey with UHI across the partnership.
The department supports:
On these pages you will find information about the services we provide, our key ICT policies, software downloads and useful security information and FAQs.
If you are having IT issues, please visit our Servicedesk page for details on how to report faults/requests or start a live chat with to one or our Servicedesk staff.
You can also email us at: servicedesk@uhi.ac.uk .
09:00 – 17:00 Monday to Friday
For contact out with our core hours, we aim to offer live support from:
17:00 to 20:00 Monday to Thursday
12:00 to 16:00 Saturday & Sunday.
When Operators are available through Live Chat , UniDesk and Email.
Welcome to the official BlueSky page of the UHI ServiceDesk.
We are here to support you and provide technical updates on UHI services.
Below are some links that you can use to get in touch with us:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/accessibility:
This accessibility statement applies to :
This website is run by UHI.
We want as many people as possible to be able to use this website.
For example, that means you should be able to:
We’ve also made the website text as simple as possible to understand.
AbilityNet has advice on making your device easier to use if you have a disability.
We know some parts of this website are not fully accessible:
If you need information on this website in a different format like accessible PDF, large print, easy read, audio recording or braille:
We’ll consider your request and get back to you in 5 working days.
We’re always looking to improve the accessibility of this website.
If you find any problems not listed on this page or think we’re not meeting accessibility requirements, contact webteam@uhi.ac.uk .
The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 (the ‘accessibility regulations’).
If you’re not happy with how we respond to your complaint, contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS) .
UHI is committed to making its websites accessible, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018.
This website is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.1 AA standard, due to the non-compliances listed below.
The content listed below is non-accessible for the following reasons.
We are aware that some 3rd party content on our site does not conform to WCAG AA.
Elements such as :
The range of WCAG issues is extensive and ever changing.
Where we use widgets, they are typically for ancillary information and the information is available natively in the respective platforms which are linked from our website footer and/or the embeds.
We support our web content with a large number of PDFs.
We are aware of a number of issues with these and are systematically working through our repository to resolve them.
The most common issues are :
We do not plan to add captions to live video streams because live video is exempt from meeting the accessibility regulations .
We regularly run accessibility checks on our content and prioritise the rectification of any issues we notice or that are reported to us.
We recognise that automated testing is only one part of the process of understanding our sites' accessibility and welcome feedback on how we might improve any aspect of our sites.
We value and prioritise the personal and professional development of our webteam in the area of accessibility.
This statement was prepared on 06 April 2017.
It was last reviewed on 20 June 2024.
This website is tested weekly by automated software provided as part of our enterprise search tool, Funnelback.
The testing is carried out by the UHI webteam.
The software tests the whole site and any issues identified are prioritised and resolved.
In the process of resolving identified issues, we make additional use of the Deque ‘axe’ Chrome plugin.
Accessibility statements for other systems and software used at UHI can be found on the software accessibility index page .

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/gd/luchd-obrach:
Tha cothrom an-asgaidh aig luchd-obrach air Ionnsachadh LinkedIn - leabharlann air-loidhne de bhideothan stiùiridh air sgilean cruthachail is gnìomhachais a bharrachd air a’ bhathar-bog as ùire.
Lean UHI air Linkedln

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/libraries:
Search UHI and beyond
Advanced Search
How to search across library collections ; check online reference resources ; find maps, multimedia , and your module resource lists ; and dictionaries .
Cite and reference your work using referencing tools such as RefWorks ; learn how to backup and restore references ; and read our dissertation skills guide.
Using UHI libraries ; using other libraries and your local library ; and what you need to know about borrowing and renewing books .
External User
Highland Health Sciences Library
Staff
Students
Accessibility Libguide

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/students/academic-calendar:
This is the academic calendar for 2024/25.
Most HNs
Most undergraduate degree courses
Autumn holiday (for both HN and degree students) is w/c 14 October 2024.
Spring holidays are w/c 07 April and 14 April 2025
Download the academic calendar for 2024-25 (PDF) .
This is the academic calendar for 2025/26.
Autumn holiday (for both HN and degree students) is w/c 13 October 2025.
Spring holidays are w/c 06April and 13 April 2026
Download the academic calendar for 2025-26 (PDF) .
Examination Timetable

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/students/careers:
Over the course of your lives you will make frequent career decisions.
Your career journey, alongside many other areas of your life, will be subject to constant change and the influences of unplanned events and unexpected opportunities.
The UHI Futures team encourage you to see career decisions not as ‘problems to be solved’, but as amazing opportunities to be curious, look creatively at possibilities and consider what opportunities exist across the Highlands and Islands and beyond.
As a student UHI you have access to Handshake our exciting new careers platform, available for you to use throughout your time with us and beyond.
Handshake enables students to book career appointments, attend events, make real-time connections with employers and access online resources.
As an employer we offer you the opportunity to advertise your opportunities to students and graduates and to influence the development of the curriculum.
You can also build meaningful relationships with our students and graduates via UHI Handshake
Activate your Handshake account now!
>
Handshake is a free app for all UHI students to seek career support to help you find the jobs that you’re looking for, both during and after your studies.
It is trusted by 900+ universities and 425K employers worldwide, and its big-picture approach to connecting students, employers, and universities helps you to benefit from:
Boost your career journey - Activate your Handshake profile now!
UHI Futures Privacy Notice

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/learning-and-teaching-academy:
The Learning and Teaching Academy is the university's directorate and central hub for leading the strategic enhancement of and innovation in learning and teaching, and associated practices and processes, across the UHI partnership.
This includes:
The work of the directorate is mainly organised across the two main functional areas of Academic Practice Development and Academic Standards and Enhancement.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/gd/alumni:
Feuch gun cùm thu a’ conaltradh agus a’ faighinn buannachd bhon iomadh cothrom a thig mar phàirt den choimhearsnachd againn.
Cumaidh sinn ar turas còmhla a’ dol!

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/alumni/update-your-details:
We really value our alumni and would love to keep in touch!
If you're graduating in 2025, update your contact details below to stay connected — and you’ll be entered into a prize draw to win £100 for a store of your choice!
Draw date: 28 November 2025, after all graduations.
T&Cs: Open to 2025 graduates of the UHI.
Winner will be contacted and announced after the draw.
Personal data provided when updating your details will be used to update your alumni record and, if you are a 2025 graduate, to administer entry into the 2025 alumni prize draw.
This includes contacting the winner.
All data will be handled in accordance with UHI’s existing privacy practices.
Please read our privacy notice

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/alumni/alumni-benefits:
All alumni have access to the range of benefits and services below.
If you are in a position to offer a discount to your fellow alumni or have any suggestions to enhance the range of benefits we offer - we'd love to hear from you!
We offer career development support, whenever you need it and wherever you are in the world.
10% discount on University of the Highlands and Islands postgraduate taught courses and research programmes.
Continue your research and enrich your mind with free access to e-resources.
What to do if you need a replacement certificate.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/alumni/awards:
Do you know an outstanding UHI graduate?
Nominate them today!
Use the short survey below to submit your nomination.
Eligibility Criteria
To be eligible the nominee must:
Important information
Deadline: Nominations close at midnight on Sunday, 1 June 2025.
Who can nominate?
Anyone - except self-nominations are not permitted.
Winner expectations:
Confidentiality: All nominations will be treated in confidence.
Should you have any questions, please email us at alumni@uhi.ac.uk.
Nurina Sharmin is recognised for her achievements in aerospace innovation, dedication to education, and community leadership.
Nurina is a strong advocate for sustainability, STEM careers, and student development, continuing to inspire and support others as a UHI alumni ambassador.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/alumni/alumni-ambassadors:
Our alumni are our best ambassadors.
Nothing speaks more highly for a university than successful alumni who want to give back by volunteering.
Volunteering has lots of benefits, from skills development, the sense of satisfaction, to promoting your company and accessing student talent.
We are building a community of alumni ambassadors to be a key resource for prospective students to draw upon when making decisions about applying.
They can cover expectations of studying at UHI, what to expect, and work-life balance.
Alumni ambassadors can also play an important role in preparing current students for the world of work whilst expanding the network of connected graduates around the world.
Interested in becoming an ambassador?

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/alumni/where-are-they-now:
We caught up with some of our alumni to find out...
Are you UHI alumni?
Let us know where you are!
"Since graduating I have continued to live and work in Orkney, my home island.
I run weekly youth club sessions for primary and secondary children to spark their interest in heritage and history, with a focus on Rousay and Orkney.
I also work as a waitress/housekeeper at The Taversoe Hotel, and have started my own baking business called Brinian Bakes!"
Biggest career highlight: "Being able to use the skills and knowledge I gained during my degrees in my role as a youth worker, to educate and interest the younger generation in history and the past."
Future aspirations: "To continue living and working in Orkney and be heavily involved in the local community and events.
Also to keep promoting local heritage and history and safeguarding this information for the future."
How did your course at UHI help you to get where you are: "I was able to stay at home in Orkney and continue to be involved with the local community, which enabled me to get a job on the island and set up my own business.
The course also gave me a great knowledge of a variety of historical topics and the analytical and research skills which have been invaluable."
Best thing about studying at UHI: "Gaining qualifications without having to move away to study and of course the amazing lecturers at the Centre for History , who all have a great breadth of knowledge and were always so helpful and supportive."
"I am the owner of a golf tour operator business, Golf Concierge Scotland Ltd, which arranges golf trips for international tourists visiting Scotland."
Key milestones from graduation to now: " Gaining full time employment with IAGTO (International Association of Golf Tour Operators) in London, shortly after completing the golf management degree in 2011."
Biggest career highlight: "Securing a years internship at Pebble Beach Resorts in California as part of our degree placement work experience was a wonderful experience and opened many doors."
Future aspirations: "To have a healthy work life balance and to continue receiving positive feedback from our clients."
How did your course at UHI help you to get where you are: "The BA (Hons) Golf Management degree taught us key skills in regards to marketing, finance, golf operations and the history of golf which are very useful now day to day."
Best thing about studying at UHI: "The fact it was a small campus in Dornoch, we received lots of 1 on 1 tuition from lecturers.
The annual trips to assist with the tournament scoring at The Alfred Dunhill Links Championship in St Andrews were always a highlight."
"I am now in the landscape architecture department.
I lecture on the bioeconomy and nature-based solutions to Estonian bachelor students (in English) and strategic local planning to international and Erasmus students.
I have spent time helping with the reorganisation of our master programme and now will be focussed on increasing the research focus of our department.
My husband and I also have an alpaca farm in Latvia - he mainly runs that of course, but I help!"
Key milestones from graduation to now: " Gaining my PhD in 2020."
Biggest career highlight: "Finally getting my PhD after 7 years of research following my Masters."
Future aspirations: "To improve the research output from our department."
How did your course at UHI help you to get where you are: "I started off with the Open University, which was fine but UHI really helped me dive deeper into the research.
As an online course it certainly prepared me for the COVID era.
I am not young, but I was well prepared for the challenges."
Best thing about studying at UHI: "The knowledge gained and ability to do research has been enhanced through the studies at UHI.
I often cite this as an example of how low density areas do not need to be left out - one day more low populated countries will catch the vision.
"
I carry out various surveys on commercial and residential buildings for organisations, produce specifications, manage the project and act as client administrator on multi-million pound projects.
Key milestones from graduation to now: 2016 - 2020: Carried on studying, gaining job specific technical qualifications, became a member of the Chartered Institute of Building 2021: Moved to the South East of England 2022: Started employment with a global construction consultancy, working from my office in the Shard
Biggest career highlight: Working on the new Anderson High School and Halls of Residence as the Technical Advisor and then managing the ongoing DBFM contract, along with all the people I met with at SIC, SFT and the other contract managers across the North of Scotland.
Future aspirations: Progress my career at RLB, becoming a Senior Associate and then Partner if that's how I feel when the opportunities are there.
You don't always have to progress to be happy.
Contentment in your position and being excellent at what you do can be enough.
How did your course at UHI help you to get where you are: Gave me the base technical knowledge that I can still use today.
Best thing about studying at UHI: The flexibility of being able to stay at home or attend as block release.
"I am a TV chef in the USA, appearing on shows such as MasterChef and Snack vs Chef.
I also own a Scottish bakery making true Scottish shortbread and shipping it all over the country."
"My role involves collaborating with the global recruitment team to ensure seamless recruitment, experience, training, etc.
for mainly volunteers and employees."
"My role includes repping instore and outstore album launch events in Dundee.
We’ve hosted events for artists/bands such as All Time Low, Chvrches, Yungblud, Lewis Capaldi and Texas."
"I work part time in a private dental practice as a dental hygienist and part time as a university lecturer, educating oral health therapy students."
"I have a National NHS role and am one of only three staff within the Planned Care Team at the Centre for Sustainable Delivery , part of the Golden Jubilee National Hospital."
"I am the founder of Aviotron Aerospace.
Our mission is to provide the next generation with engaging and experiential learning programs that cultivate skills in science, technology, engineering, arts, and mathematics (STEAM)."

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/alumni/alumni-benefits/careers-support:
Not sure what to do next?
Looking for a job?
Want to continue studying to the next level?
Do you need to update your CV, prepare for an interview, or just need some support to get you moving forward?
The UHI Futures team have recently launched Handshake , an exciting and dynamic online career development platform and mobile app that connects UHI graduates to employers right here in the Highlands and Islands, but also across the UK and beyond, helping you secure your dream job.
Handshake integrates the services of the UHI Futures team so you can continue to arrange individual appointments, book onto interesting national and international events, and take part in activities designed to help you manage your career.
It also enables you to connect directly with employers to help you find jobs with the top organisations, and they can easily find and reach out to you on the platform too.
To start your graduate career journey, download the Handshake app or visit Handshake .
Once you have joined the Handshake community, please take a little time to set up your profile and preferences to ensure you make the most of this platform.
For further information and resources to support you, please email the UHI Futures team or visit their web pages .
Our services, via the Handshake platform, include:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/alumni/contact-us:
We would love to hear from you and we are especially interested to know about what you have been up to since graduating!
You can complete the update your details form , or get in touch with the team if you have any questions, suggestions or ideas:
UHI Alumni Engagement UHI House Old Perth Road Inverness IV2 3JH
01463 279 019

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/gd/dhachaigh:
Cha deach an duilleag seo eadar-theangachadh fhathast.
Ma tha thu airson an duilleag seo eadar-theangachadh, cleachd am foirm seo, a ’toirt a-steach URL na duilleige agus cànan eadar-theangachaidh a tha dhith ort (Gàidhlig na h-Alba, Gàidhlig na h-Èireann no Hindi).
Bidh sinn a ’toirt prìomhachas do eadar-theangachadh susbaint airson an làrach-lìn mar fhreagairt do na h-iarrtasan agad agus stèidhichte air anailisean.
Tha sinn an dòchas gu faigh thu am fiosrachadh a bha a dhìth ort air an duilleag (an) Beurla againn.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/gd/ionnsachadh-aig-uhi:
Dachaigh don:
A’ tighinn bhon sgoil
A’ tighinn bhon cholaiste
A' tilleadh gu ionnsachadh
Am beachd ur sgilean àrdachadh
Luchdaich a-nuas a Leabhran-Iùil againn
Tòisichibh air ur turas >
Cruinn-ionad nan tagraichean >

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/gd/arainnean:
Is sinn an aon oilthigh a tha stèidhichte anns a Ghàidhealtachd is nan Eileanan an Alba agus tha sinn beagan eadar-dhealaichte - tha sinn a 'tairgsinn roghainn a bhith ag ionnsachadh aig aon de na colaistean agus ionadan rannsachaidh againn, còrr is 70 ionad ionnsachaidh ionadail, no air-loidhne bho àite sam bith.
Faigh a-mach mu ionadan ionnsachaidh sa choimhearsnachd agad le bhith a’ tadhal air làraichean-lìn ar colaistean fa leth.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/gd/rannsachadh:
Rannsachadh co-obrachail, ceithir prìomh chuspairean
Bidh sinn a’ tabhann deuchainn-lannan nàdarra gun choimeas agus cothroman gus taic a thoirt do rannsachadh aig ìre chruinneil thar raon farsaing de chuspairean.
Gu h-ìosal faodaidh tu na raointean eòlais againn a sgrùdadh le bhith a’ dol dìreach chun an raoin ùidhe agad no coimhead air na tar-sheallaidhean cuspaireil.
Bidh an luchd-rannsachaidh againn ag obair thar sgiobaidhean, lìonraidhean agus àiteachan air feadh na roinne agus gu h-eadar-nàiseanta.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/gd/ionnsachadh-aig-uhi/beatha-oileanaich:
Air feadh ar àrainnean tha tòrr ri fhaicinn agus ri dhèanamh, airson e bhi comasach dhuinn a h-uile sìon a liostadh… ach se liosta glè fhada a bhitheadh ann agus chan eil sinn cinnteach gun tigeadh crìoch air!
An àite sin, tha sinn a ’brosnachadh ar n-oileanaich is ar luchd-obrach cliocadh air #ThinkUHI  na meadhanan sòisealta aca agus tha seo a’ toirt dhuinn measgachadh  de rudan a tha a ’tachairt air an àrainne, far na h-àrainne, suas beinn, aig fèisean ciùil, agus a siubhal ann a curachan gu clas, ag ionnsachadh air-loidhne.
a ’coimhead air caoirich ag ithe feamainn (tha, tha iad ann) ...cinnteach guu bheil thu a faighinn an drioft!
Aon uair 's gu bheil thu a ’tòiseachadh air do chuid ionnsachaidh còmhla rinn, na dìochuimhnich a bhith gur tagadh!
?
Gabh pàirt ann an  no thig thu an sàs ann an club no comann (no cuir air dòigh fear dhut fhèin ma tha beachd math agad), faodaidh tu cuideachd beachdachadh air a bhith an sàs ann an .
Tha Scotland is Now cuideachd a ’toirt seachad tòrr fiosrachaidh a chuidicheas tu gus cultar, bailtean-mòra agus faighinn timcheall Alba a lorg .

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/gd/mu-uhi:
Is e oilthigh amalaichte a tha seo, a tha a’ coimeasgachadh foghlam adhartach agus foghlam àrd-ìre - an t-aon ionad-foghlaim a-mhàin de a leithid ann an Alba, agus aon den bheagan san Roinn Eòrpa.
Is e barrachd na colaiste a th’ annainn agus barrachd na oilthigh traidiseanta: com-pàirteachas sùbailte ioma-dhòigheach freumhaichte nar coimhearsnachdan agus air a stiùireadh le am feumalachdan.
Tha ar lìonra de cholaistean, ionadan teagaisg speisealach agus institiùdan rannsachaidh a tha aithnichte gu h-eadar-nàiseanta, a’ lìbhrigeadh ionnsachadh sùbailte le taic, bho ìre inntrigidh gu PhD.
Le 48 làraichean air feadh na Gàidhealtachd ’s nan Eilean, Moireibh agus Siorrachd Pheairt, tha sinn a’ tabhann foghlam a tha cuimsichte gu h-ionadail agus cruinneil na ruigsinneachd.
Tha oileanaich aig cridhe gach nì a tha sinn a’ dèanamh.
Is e an soirbheachadh acasan ar slat tomhais.
Tro theagasg aig ìre chruinneil, rannsachadh agus iomlaid eòlais, tha UHI a’ co-cheangal ar roinnean ris an t-saoghal – agus a’ toirt an t-saoghail gu ar roinnean.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/gd/mu-uhi/ghaidhlig:
Mar an aon oilthigh a-mhàin a tha stèidhichte ann an Gàidhealtachd is Eileanan na h-Alba, tha UHI gu h-àraidh mothachail do ar dleastanasan a thaobh àrdachadh a thoirt air inbhe na Gàidhlig.
Tha gealltanasan anns a’ Phlana Ghàidhlig againn a’ cumadh nan seirbheisean Gàidhlig a tha sinn comasach air a thoirt do luchd-obrach, oileanaich agus am poball.
Tha sinn ag amas air stuthan eadar-theangachadh a bhios ag adhartachadh cleachdadh air a’ Ghàidhlig, agus chì sibh seo tro ar litrichean-naidheachd, duilleagan làrach-lìn, brathan naidheachd agus soidhneachd dà-chànanach agus mòran a bharrachd.
Tha sinn comasach air cothroman ionnsachaidh Gàidhlig agus fiosrachadh mu ghoireasan a thoirt seachad cuideachd.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/gd/na-meadanan:
Oifis naidheachd an UHI communications@uhi.ac.uk
Naidheachdan
Bloga
UHI Earra-Ghàidheal
UHI Inbhir Nis
UHI Moireibh
UHI a Tuath, an Iar is Innse Gall
UHI Arcaibh
UHI Peairt
UHI Sealtainn
Comann Saidheans Mara na h-Alba

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/contact-us/contact-webteam:
Webteam look after www.uhi.ac.uk, please use this form for any general enquiries about the website.
Queries about IT help, MFA, Passwords, Brightspace , etc.
should be discussed with Servicedesk .
Get IT Help
Please read our privacy notice .

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/contact-us/contact-info-line:
We’re currently prioritising queries related to Clearing.
If your enquiry is not Clearing-related, please submit this form—we aim to respond within 5 working days.
For questions about an existing application, please contact the admissions team listed in your submission confirmation email, or reach out to the admissions team at the campus where you applied.
For queries regarding further education courses (Highers, National 5’s, NC’s, NQ’s, Short Courses etc) please contact the UHI campus you wish to attend, and they’ll be able to help.
Course list and entry requirements

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/prospectus:
Don't forget, our course list lets you search for subjects you're interested in and read the latest information about them.
Download our undergraduate prospectus (pdf)

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/scqf-level-7-aat-accountancy-diploma:
Course code N406
Jobs in accounting are extremely diverse - your skills can be used in every sector of employment, with career opportunities across the world or closer to home.
Studying an AAT accounting qualification ensures you have the recognised abilities and experience that employers look for, so you can take on the challenges of your role with confidence.
This AAT Accountancy Diploma (SCQF Level 7) offers technical training in accounting, business awareness, and tax processes, providing you with the specialist knowledge and tools you will need to progress in your employment or further your studies in accountancy and finance.
You will study the following core modules:
Number of hours per week indicates the total number of hours you should dedicate to the course, which includes time spent in lectures and your own time spent on individual study and research.
For information on costs of this course please contact the campus where you wish to study.
UHI has a number of scholarships, bursaries, awards, and discretionary fund opportunities available to new and current students.
Please use the A-Z of funds or use the filter to see which ones may be relevant to you.
All students are welcome to apply.
Further information on funding your studies is also available, please see the attached link or contact the relevant UHI partner.
Once you have successfully completed this course, you might like to consider careers in:
You can progress from this course on to the AAT Accountancy Professional Diploma (SCQF level 8) .
You can use the above QR code to connect directly to the course details.
We are delighted that you are thinking about studying at the University of the Highlands and Islands.
We operate a fair and open admissions system committed to equality of opportunity and non-discrimination.
We consider all applications on merit and on the basis of ability to achieve, without discrimination on grounds of gender, age, disability, ethnicity and socio-economic background.
We welcome applications from all prospective students and aim to provide appropriate and efficient services to students with disabilities.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/scqf-level-8-aat-accountancy-professional-diploma:
Course code 91N4
The aim of this level 8 qualification is to enhance the skills developed in the intermediate level.
You will look at financial team leader skills, including financial statements for limited companies, complex management skills and specialist learning areas.
As a result, your contribution will be better recognised and regarded and you will have greater professional status.
On successful completion, you will automatically become an AAT affiliate member and with relevant work experience will qualify for AAT full membership.
Core modules are:
Optional modules include:
On completion of this course you may consider employment as an Accounts Technician in private practice, commence and the public sector.
You can apply for full AAT membership, which allows you to use the designation letters MAAT after your name.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnc-accounting:
Course code 104N
The HNC Accounting* covers a wide range of accounting concepts and provides you with an excellent grounding in the principles of financial and management accounting using manual and computerised approaches.
It is designed to prepare you for a career in accounting or financial administration.
*subject to revalidation
We offer modern student accommodation at a number of our locations.
Mandatory units are:
Optional units may include:
Please note that option units available vary depending on study location, for more information contact your chosen campus
Scottish
For students normally domiciled in Scotland, with a term-time address in Scotland, the following fees apply:
This includes
For students normally domiciled in the rest of the UK (England, Wales and N.
Ireland, including Channel Islands and the Isle of Man) and with a term time address in Scotland, the following fees apply:
Fees are payable in advance each academic year unless otherwise agreed.
There are a number of funding options available to UK students to help you pay for your studies and your cost of living while studying.
For students who do not normally reside in the UK, including EU/EEA and Swiss nationals without settled or pre-settled status in the UK, with a term-time address in Scotland, the following fees apply:
This includes EEA/Swiss nationals with pre-settled status who are not self-employed or migrant workers in the UK.
Part-time study is not open to international student requiring Student Route visa sponsorship to study in the UK.
Upon successful completion of this HNC Accounting, you may wish to proceed to employment with local organisations as an accounting assistant.
You can progress to the HND Accounting and from there to the BA (Hons) Accounting and Finance .

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnd-accounting:
Course code 504N
As a student of the HND Accounting qualification, developed by the Scottish Qualifications Authority (SQA), you'll benefit from a modern and forward-thinking approach to accounting education.
Designed in collaboration with industry professionals, including key members of our own course team, the course reflects both current industry needs and the realities of today’s workplace.
You'll build essential skills in financial and management accounting, while also developing key meta-skills like self-management, social intelligence, and innovation.
These aren't just buzzwords, they’re vital tools that will help you adapt, grow, and lead, in a fast-changing professional landscape.
One of the unique aspects of this qualification is its structure: with fewer, larger units, you'll face less assessment pressure and have more time to engage deeply with your learning.
The course is designed to go beyond technical training, giving you the confidence and critical thinking abilities employers are looking for.
By completing this HND Accounting qualification, you’ll be well-prepared for a variety of roles in the accounting field—and you’ll also lay a strong foundation for further study or professional advancement, wherever your ambitions take you.
Direct entry to year two:
Year 1 of this course is either:
You will study the following modules:
The number of hours per week indicates the total number of hours you should dedicate to the course, which includes time spent on online material as well as individual study and research.
There are a number of funding options available to UK and EU students to help you pay for your studies and your cost of living while studying (see the Funding section opposite).
You may wish to progress from this HND Accounting to the following courses:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ma-integrated-accounting-graduate-apprenticeship:
Course code N425
Take charge of your future with our MA (Integrated) Accounting (Graduate Apprenticeship), a powerful blend of academic achievement and real-world experience designed with you in mind.
This innovative five-year programme is tailored for motivated individuals already working in accounting or finance who are ready to accelerate their career.
As you work in a professional role, you’ll simultaneously study towards a Master’s in Accounting and gain full ACCA qualification, all while earning and applying your knowledge in real time.
What sets this programme apart is its practical, student-focused approach.
You won’t just learn about accounting: you’ll live it.
Each concept you study can be immediately applied to your work, deepening your understanding and adding real value to your organisation.
Along the way, you’ll build the technical expertise, commercial awareness, and professional confidence needed to thrive as a Chartered Accountant.
This is more than a degree: it’s a career-defining journey that centres your development, your goals, and your success.
With university tuition fees funded by SAAS and a salary throughout your studies, this is a smart, practical, and rewarding path to becoming a fully qualified accountant.
For further information please refer to the SAAS graduate apprenticeship guide .
Alternatively:
You must also be:
Advanced entry
As well as the modules listed, you must also complete the ACCA module 'Ethics and Professional Skills' before starting the DipHE modules.
Please see the 'Additional costs' section of the Fees/funding tab for further information.
You will also study 2 of the following optional modules:
This is a full-time work-based learning qualification.
You will need to dedicate some time in addition to your paid working hours to gather work-based evidence, study via the VLE, and research information for the qualification.
Tuition fees will be funded by SAAS, for more information please refer to this graduate apprenticeship guide .
As well as the modules listed, you must complete the ACCA module 'Ethics and Professional Skills'.
Exemption cannot be granted for this module, so you will need to complete this directly with ACCA before commencing your studies at Level 10.
There is a cost to this, please refer to ACCA guidelines for more information.
When applying to ACCA to become a fully qualified chartered accountant, fees will need to be paid for the exemptions gained throughout this qualification.
This is standard practice for any application to meet Chartered status and full information on ACCA’s exemptions fees can be found on the ACCA Website .
Once you have successfully completed this course, you can continue to build your career and will be eligible to apply for membership with ACCA to become a fully qualified, chartered accountant.
You may wish to progress from this MA (Integrated) Accounting (Graduate Apprenticeship) to pursue a Doctorate of Business Administration or PhD Study.
You must be in suitable employment to do a Graduate Apprenticeship – please revisit this page once you are employed in the sector.Alternatively, please see our Courses page for other suitable courses in this field.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnc-accounting-inverness:
Course code 404N
Are you detail-oriented with a keen interest in numbers and problem-solving?
Would you like to develop a skill set that is essential to every business and industry?
Take a forward-thinking approach to your career on this innovative HNC Accounting program, developed by the Scottish Qualifications Authority (SQA) with input from key members of our course team.
Empower yourself with essential financial and management accounting skills while integrating vital meta-skills such as self-management, social intelligence, and innovation, competencies that are crucial for success in today’s dynamic work environment.
Benefit from the streamlined structure of this ground-breaking course, which increases the size of units while decreasing the amount, reducing the frequency of assessments and enabling you to focus on deepening your comprehension of the material.
Delivered using fresh and exciting new methods that reflect real-life settings and situations, cultivate important technical knowledge alongside the adaptability and critical thinking skills required to thrive in fast-paced business settings.
Prepare for a variety of accounting roles while establishing a solid foundation for ongoing academic and professional development in your field, opening up countless opportunities for personal and career growth while gaining the tools necessary to fulfil your immediate and long-term ambitions.
External scholarships and financial support may be available.
Contact the relevant UHI partner college for more information.
You may wish to progress from HNC Accounting (Inverness) to the following courses:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-accounting-and-finance:
Course code N430
You need the skills to excel in a challenging, business-critical field: we have the training you're looking for.
Explore a range of key accountancy concepts in-depth and gain an excellent grounding in the principles of financial and management accounting.
Use manual and computerised systems, working in class sizes designed to give you an inclusive personal experience of university life.
Develop your contextual, theoretical, and technical skills on this highly practical programme, and let us prepare you for a successful career in accounting and finance.
Entry to year one, HNC Accounting:
Advanced entry:
SWAP Access courses If you are eligible to undertake Scottish Wider Access Programmes (SWAP) , please visit our SWAP access list for further information on grade profiles and available subjects.
Year 1 of the course is HNC Accounting
Year 2 of the course is HND Accounting
You will choose two option modules which may include:
You will complete a dissertation, or research and plan a new business venture, as well as studying the following modules:
You will choose further option modules which may include:
Ireland, including Channel Islands and the Isle of Man) and with a term-time address in Scotland, the following fees apply:
4th year free only for students studying full-time, on continuous study, who have paid for the previous three years at the University of the Highlands and Islands.
Following the UK’s departure from the European Union, the Scottish Government confirmed that EU/EEA and Swiss nationals, who do not have settled or pre-settled status, will be considered as international for fee purposes.
Students will get an automatic scholarship for the degree (3 rd ) year and the 4 th year of study will be free for those studying full-time, on continuous study, who have paid for the previous three years at the University of the Highlands and Islands.
For students who do not normally reside in the UK or European Union and with a term-time address in Scotland, the following fees apply:
Part-time study is not open to international student requiring Student Route visa sponsorship to study in the UK
Further information on international course fees .
A no fee increase guarantee is available for self-funding full-time and structured part-time rest of the UK, EU and international undergraduate students for continuous study for the same award, up to the permitted standard time limit for the relevant award, including where students are following a recognised ‘top-up’ degree structure where the first and second years are made up of an HNC/D award.
Core textbooks will need to be purchased in years 3 and 4 of the course (approximately £65 in year 3 and between £30-60 in year 4 depending on module choices).
You can progress into further study with the professional accounting bodies.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnc-acting-and-performance:
Course code 014W
Do you have experience in performance?
Or have you always wanted to pursue your interest but never taken it further?
Now is your time.
Develop your skills in voice, movement, acting, and stage craft with our HNC.
Be part of performances in the community and in our versatile performing arts studio, collaborating with students on the BA (Hons) Drama and Production to trial run your performances in scratch performance nights, work in teams, share leadership opportunities, and take part in innovative and creative approaches to working in rehearsal and performance.
You will study the following mandatory units:
Option units are:
Please note that option units available vary depending on study location; for more information contact your chosen campus .
Note: At UHI Moray the course is delivered in collaboration with Out of the Darkness Theatre Company.
All practical work will be undertaken at their premises, but you will register and have access to all facilities and have support from UHI Moray.
UHI Inverness students are expected to wear appropriate black clothing for movement and performance.
On successful completion of this course you may choose to seek a career in acting, community theatre, community arts or stage management.
The HNC Acting and Performance course is also a great stepping stone into teacher training.
On successful completion of the HNC (gaining grade A or B in the Graded Unit), there is the opportunity to progress to the second year of the BA (Hons) Drama and Production.
I didn’t consider any other universities, UHI offered a brilliant course at commuter distance which meant I could stay in work while studying.
It offered a good blend of independent and supported learning.
I developed my directing skills, to work on my personal relationship with a cast and how to lead a group to the best of their abilities.
Our course leader was incredible, the conversations in her class were an amazing and safe space to learn and challenge each other in and she was great at caring for us all individually as well.
My favourite thing about studying at UHI was the friends I made that have turned into colleagues.
Rachel studied Drama and production at UHI Inverness.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnd-acting-and-performance:
Course code 094W
Have you ever imagined bringing stories to life on stage or screen, captivating audiences with powerful performances?
What if you could turn your passion for drama into a professional career in the performing arts industry?
Our HND Acting and Performance is an immersive two-year course designed to develop skills to professional industry standards.
Build a strong foundation in acting, movement, and voice in year one, refining these core skills in year two through advanced stagecraft techniques that stretch creative boundaries and deepen performance confidence.
Explore the work of influential practitioners and experiment with innovative approaches to storytelling, taking part in three full-scale productions to gain real-world experience on stage.
You’ll develop essential professional strategies for working in the fast-paced theatre industry, training in cutting-edge performing arts and rehearsal studios and bringing performances to life with the support of experienced drama technicians who deliver high-quality sound and lighting.
Learn from passionate tutors with a wealth of industry and academic expertise, offering guidance throughout your development as both a performer and student of drama.
Nestled in the heart of the stunning Scottish Highlands, Inverness combines the convenience of a vibrant city with breath-taking natural beauty.
Take advantage of UHI’s strong links with Eden Court Theatre and enjoy access to a wide range of theatre, music, and film experiences that will inspire and elevate your artistic growth.
Collaborate with students from across the drama programmes, engaging in exciting extracurricular projects with community partners, and enjoying opportunities to contribute to creative work beyond the classroom.
Add another layer of participation to your experience by joining UHI Drama Society, the perfect place to connect with new people, build friendships, and enhance your theatre skills as part of a vibrant theatre community, paving the way for careers in acting, directing, teaching, drama therapy, arts administration, and more.
For entry to year 1, HNC Acting and Performance :
Year 1 of this course is HNC Acting and Performance .
Optional modules may include:
You may wish to progress from HND Acting and Performance to year 3 of our BA (Hons) Drama and Production .

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/cpd-award-additional-teaching-qual-in-computing-studies-scqf-level-8:
Course code 99X0
The Additional Teaching Qualification (ATQ) in Computing Studies is aimed at secondary teachers in Scotland who want to gain the university credits required to register to teach Computing Studies as a second subject.
This course provides the knowledge and skills to teach Computing Studies at all curricular levels.
Working, learning and collaborating with a group of fellow teaching professionals provides a great opportunity to share experience and develop an ongoing support network.
You will be mentored by current computer studies teachers.
Although the focus of the course will be on computing skills, you will be encouraged to explore teaching methodologies and to develop and share learning activities, resources and ideas to put these into practice.
This course is designed as a part-time, rolling programme with one module being offered each semester.
You will complete two of the following modules in year one:
In year two, you must choose the remaining two modules from those listed in year one (one per semester).
This includes •    EU nationals with settled or pre-settled status in the UK, •    EEA/Swiss nationals with settled status in the UK •    EEA/Swiss nationals with pre-settled status who are self-employed or migrant workers in the UK.
Rest of UK students
Ireland, including Channel Islands and the Isle of Man) or assessed as rest of the UK for fee status, the following fees apply:
International students
This course is not available for international students, including EU/EEA and Swiss nationals without settled status in the UK, requiring Student Route visa sponsorship to study here.
For students living in the UK and assessed as international for fee status, the following fees will apply:
To complete registration for computing studies as a second subject, you will be required to apply to the GTCS.
You will then be asked to complete a specified number of days of teaching Computing Studies in school to complete full registration for Computing Studies.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnc-administration-and-information-technology:
Course code 17PN
The HNC Administration and Information Technology is designed to meet the demands and requirements of today's modern business environment, and will stand you in good stead to pursue a successful career in business administration.
You will study a wide range of topics, including: MS office applications such as word processing, spreadsheets, database and powerpoint.
You will also study units such as recording financial transactions, business communication, office administration and digital technologies for administrators.
Optional units may include:
Option units available may vary depending on study location, for more information contact your chosen campus .
Full-time and part-time students:
Distance learning:
On completion of your HNC Administration and Information Technology course you will be equipped to take up a range of posts in business administration.
You can progress to the following courses:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnd-administration-and-information-technology:
Course code 75NG
Businesses and other organisations rely upon people with good skills in administration and information technology.
This more advanced course can help your career by providing you with the high level of practical and problem solving skills you need to improve your job prospects.
*available modes of study will vary, depending on which UHI Campus you are applying to study with
For entry to year 1, HNC Administration and Information Technology :
Year 1 of the HND is HNC Administration and Information Technology .
On completion of your course you will be qualified for employment at senior level in office administration, supervisory level administration, or as a personal assistant or secretary.
You can progress to the third year of the BA (Hons) Business and Management degree.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/pda-advanced-manufacturing-scqf-level-7:
Course code 201I
This PDA in Advanced Manufacturing (SCQF level 7) has been designed to address and close the current skills gap in the manufacturing workforce, as set out in the sector's Skills Investment Plans.
Manufacture is a key priority for Scotland, involving a range of industrial sectors, so this PDA is ideal for any individual or business that is involved in Manufacturing and Processing industries.
The structure of the course takes into account the national manufacturing agenda, driven by the Manufacturing Action Plan, the Scottish Government's initiative to create ‘A Manufacturing Future for Scotland’.
At the route of these developments is the emergence of the Fourth Industrial Revolution, where technology and advanced manufacture will play a key role in the future of manufacturing.
Based on industry and education predictions and forecasting, there is a clear need for a workforce that can adjust to and develop advanced technologies such as 3D modelling.
This course will provide you with the skills needed to engage with these innovations and become part of Scotland's future.
Core modules will include:
You will also study 1 of the following optional modules:
For information on costs for this course please contact the campus where you wish to study.
Successful completion of this course can be used to further your career in manufacturing and processing.
You may wish to progress from PDA Advanced Manufacturing (SCQF level 7) to HNC Engineering Systems .

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/msc-advanced-nurse-practitioner-professional-practice:
Course code B702
Developed in partnership with expert clinical partners, and taught by subject experts, this course will equip nurses and allied health professionals to lead and deliver advanced healthcare.
This innovative and contemporary programme is relevant to a variety of healthcare settings including remote and rural contexts.
You will develop advanced knowledge and skills, through a combination of core and optional modules in relation to the four pillars of advanced practice clinical practice, leadership, facilitation of learning and evidence-based research and development.
The programme offers two routes, Advanced Nurse Practitioner (ANP) or Advanced Professional Practice (APP), and the main study mode is supported online learning with some optional face-to-face learning, delivered at campuses in Inverness and Stornoway.
Find out more about UHI Centre for Rural Health Sciences .
*A tailored arrangement for Recognition of Prior Learning in Advanced Practice programmes is available
For the MSc and PgDip, it is possible to apply for 80 credits of exemption for qualifying modules, instead of the normal 60.
Clinical assessment skills and prescribing modules undertaken at lower than postgraduate level, for example at SCQF level 9, can be upgraded to postgraduate level by submission of additional academic work, to be assessed by the department's academic team.
These arrangements can allow for considerable financial and time savings.
Please note that if you are applying for recognition of prior learning (RPL) to MSc Advanced Nurse Practitioner or MSc Advanced Professional Practice you will be liable to pay a flat fee of £150 to have your application for RPL assessed and processed.
This fee only applies to these courses, and the university does not charge for RPL towards other courses.
For the PgCert (60 credits) and PgDip (an additional 60 credits) the modules offered are listed below.
For those undertaking the Advanced Nurse Practitioner (ANP) route: you will be required to study the three core modules.
For those undertaking the Advanced Professional Practice (APP) route: you may choose any combination of the modules on offer.
Modules available in the Autumn semester:
Modules available in the Spring semester:
*also available as a standalone CPD Award **you must do one of these two modules
To achieve the award of MSc (180 credits in total), you must complete one of the following modules:
The Centre for Rural Health Sciences is based at UHI House, near Raigmore Hospital in Inverness, home to world-leading healthcare research.
Our academics are recognised for excellence in teaching and learning and their work is internationally recognised for being innovative and ground-breaking.
We provide a supportive and friendly environment to learn and develop professional nursing skills.
Simulation labs help to facilitate state-of-the-art clinical skills teaching and the UHI House library provides access to the most current and up-to-date resources.
For all students normally domiciled in the UK, and assessed as such for fee status, the following fees apply:
This course is not available for international students requiring Student Route visa sponsorship to study in the UK, and cannot be studied outside of the UK.
For students living in the UK and assessed as international fee status, the following fees will apply:
You will also be required to pay for any travel and accommodation costs if you choose to attend the Clinical Assessment for Advanced Practice module on-campus.
A no fee increase guarantee is available for self-funding full-time and structured part-time rest of the UK, EU and international postgraduate students for continuous study for the same award, up to the permitted standard time limit for the relevant award.
Eligible Scotland-domiciled students studying part-time can apply for a tuition fee loan from SAAS.
You must be intending to complete the course in no longer than twice the length of time it would take for a full-time student.
For example, if your course is available to full-time students as a one-year programme, you will be funded for a maximum of two years' part-time study.
If your course does not have a full-time option, you must complete within three years.
You can apply for a tuition fee loan up to £7,000, which will be paid pro-rata for each academic year of study.
Full details can be found on the SAAS website.
Applications for loans open in April.
Students from the rest of the UK who meet the eligibility requirements may be able to apply for a loan from the Student Loan Company .
The programme aims to enable nurses and allied health professionals to work autonomously in clinical practice using advanced clinical skills to lead care delivery within a variety of health and social care settings.
The University of the Highlands and Islands provides a range of options for further study including doctoral programmes.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-adventure-education-and-outdoor-learning:
Course code N8X9
New degree title!
BA (Hons) Adventure Education has a title upgrade for 2025-26!
Are you passionate about educating others while sharing your experience of the great outdoors?
Join this incredible programme and work closely with Adventure Education and Outdoor Learning providers, including the Outward Bound Trust®, to pursue a satisfying career as a professional adventure practitioner.
The term 'outdoor learning' can often be used to describe specific learning approaches in a school curriculum context.
On this course, outdoor learning is approached holistically, with a similar definition to the Institute of Outdoor Learning (IOL*), and encapsulates a wide range of purposeful, inclusive, facilitated approaches that foster learning and development, mainly through outdoor activities.
Develop and enhance your professional skills to create a learning environment through outdoor activities and in nature, offering your learners greater connections to self and others, and a place for increased health and wellbeing, as well as a growing environmental awareness.
Follow our unique structure to integrate theoretical knowledge with practice through classroom learning, experiential learning, and research, progressively building your confidence and skills as a facilitator and practitioner.
Use your knowledge, understanding, and skills to plan, prepare, and lead activities in potentially challenging and wild locations, while maintaining strong links to the education curriculum.
Learn to become the professional who provides adventures and learning for others, creating experiences that last a lifetime while being part of the vibrant community of outdoor enthusiasts in Fort William, the Outdoor Capital of the UK.
Make the most of links with other programmes in the School of Adventure Studies to broaden your professional skills and expertise, giving you access to a diverse range of careers in many different adventurous settings, wherever your path takes you.
The capabilities we build in our programmes are also life-long skills that transfer into many different future career paths.
Unlock your potential and become a future-shaper of the adventure sector.
*Explore the IOL website for more information and insights
*Host University/course is Western Norway University of Applied Sciences (HVL) "Outdoor Education and Nordic Friluftsliv" single semester exchange programme.
No tuition fees are charged, but there is currently no additional funding available for travel and living expenses, beyond normal student funding streams
Advanced entry to year two or three:
For International students requiring Student Route sponsorship Please note that international students with a Student Route visa can only take part in sports activities or as part of a work placement, as an amateur and not as a professional or semi-professional.
You will not be allowed to become a member of a professional sports association while a student.
This is due to ‘professional sportsperson’ restrictions imposed by UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) as outlined in their Student Route Policy Guidance.
You will also choose one further option module:
You will also choose one option module which may include:
You will also choose two option modules which may include:
You will also choose one of the following double-credit research project modules to follow through the year:
You will learn through a combination of face-to-face lectures and tutorials in the classroom, with some teaching by video conference from our other campuses, and online study via the university's virtual learning environment (VLE).
There are also opportunities for work placements at different levels of the programme.
You will also spend a significant amount of time increasing your skills through practical, experiential learning.
The main disciplines included are mountaineering and climbing, paddle sports and mountain biking, with a wide scope for progression and application of theories throughout the four years of study, through field work and industry activity.
Ireland, including Channel Islands and the Isle of Man) and with a term time address in Scotland studying this course full time, the following fees apply:
Part-time (per 20 credit module) - £1,542.
Students will get an automatic scholarship of £3,000 per annum and the 4 th year of study will be free for those studying full-time, on continuous study, who have paid for the previous three years at the University of the Highlands and Islands.
Part-time study is not open to international students requiring Student Route visa sponsorship to study in the UK.
A no fee increase guarantee is available for self-funding full-time and structured part-time rest of the UK, EU and international undergraduate students for continuous study for the same award, up to the permitted standard time limit for the relevant award.
Personal Outdoor Equipment and Clothing All essential personal protective equipment (PPE) and specialist equipment can be accessed from our comprehensive stores, but students will need to purchase their own personal clothing, waterproofs and footwear for most activities (with the exception of very specialised footwear such as winter boots).
As a professional practitioner you are also expected to consider purchasing your own personal equipment as your involvement and skills grow.
Excellent deals on prices from a range of suppliers are available for students.
Module costs Introduction to Sports Coaching and Leadership (core, year 1): this includes an opportunity to complete training for a UK National Governing Body qualification in climbing, paddlesports or mountain biking.
The course is free of charge but you will need to pay for your own membership and registration fees with the relevant NGB.
This cost can range from approximately £50-£100, depending on the NGB.
Adventure Education Journeys (optional, year 1): there is a mandatory residential experience in this module at Outward Bound Loch Eil, costing approximately £80 for 3 days full-board.
This cost is 50% subsidised by the School of Adventure Studies.
International Expedition Leadership (optional year 3): this involves undertaking an international expedition, which is subsidised by UHI North, West and Hebrides.
Depending on the specific plan, you should budget for up to £1000.
There may be opportunities to gain funds to support this expedition through grant funding sources or sponsorship, which would be your responsibility to obtain.
With a degree in Adventure Education and Outdoor Learning you will hold a valuable array of knowledge and skills that are transferable to any of the various aspects of the UK or international adventure sector.
The specific pathway you take will be vital in helping you shape your own chosen career.
Adventure Education and Outdoor Learning covers a wide range of career pathways and specialist fields, including:
Your career will grow and change as the years go on, and you may progress into any one of a range of exciting areas, so you may also find yourself involved in:
On successful completion of the BA (Hons) Adventure Education and Outdoor Learning you can progress onto the following postgraduate courses:
So far, it has been everything I hoped for.
I got the chance to do expeditions and water based NGB awards.
The knowledge I gained allowed me to work as a Trip Leader in America over the summer.
Going on expeditions with the children at this camp really confirmed my choice to study Adventure Education and how much I agree with what is being taught.
Alongside academic study, I am now working towards my Canoe Award, Canoe Leader and SUP Leader then hopefully Paddlesports Touring Leader and Raft Guide.
I'd also love to gain some qualifications in bush craft before finishing my degree.
Katy studies BA (Hons) Adventure Education at UHI North, West and Hebrides.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/bsc-hons-adventure-performance-and-coaching:
Course code N876
Combine the skills and knowledge of an applied sports scientist with those of a modern adventure professional, on this unique and exhilarating course.
Be part of a rapidly evolving sector where the development of over 21 Olympic adventure sports disciplines, as well as the demand for healthy active lifestyles, has brought about a drive for greater achievements in adventure sports and for the life-enhancing benefits of participation, informed by expert coaches and leaders.
Join this expert-led course and let us prepare you to coach and guide the next generation of adventure athletes.
Work with participants who demand greater outcomes in their adventure sport and develop the skills to help them smash their goals.
Receive tailored outdoor-activity skill development and professional NGB training and assessment with the School of Adventure Studies' 'practical credits system', as you access outstanding adventure facilities set amongst some of the most beautiful scenery in the UK.
SWAP Access courses
If you are eligible to undertake Scottish Wider Access Programmes (SWAP) , please visit our SWAP access list for further information on grade profiles and available subjects.
For International students requiring Student Route sponsorship Please note that international students with a Student Route visa can only take part in sports activities or as part of a work placement, as an amateur and not as a professional or semi-professional.
This is due to ‘professional sportsperson’ restrictions imposed by UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) as outlined in their Student Route Policy Guidance.
Core modules may include:
Core modules include:
You will also choose three option modules which must include one from the following:
Additional options may also include:
You will also choose one double credit project or research-based module from the following:
Ireland, including Channel Islands and the Isle of Man) and with a term-time address in Scotland, studying full time, the following fees apply:
Students will get an automatic scholarship of £4,000 per annum and the 4th year of study will be free for those studying full-time, on continuous study, who have paid for the previous three years at the University of the Highlands and Islands.
Personal Outdoor Equipment and Clothing You will have access to specialist equipment, for all timetabled activities, from our extensive stores.
An equipment deposit of £60 is payable at the beginning of your course.
This is held in our stores account to cover any equipment damage, losses, or unpaid course registrations or certificate fees.
It is rare that these deposits are used, and you can claim it back at the end of each academic year if required, or it can be left in the stores account to cover your deposit for the following year.
You will need to purchase your own personal clothing, waterproofs and footwear for most activities (with the exception of very specialised footwear such as winter boots).
Excellent deals on prices from a range of suppliers are available for all students.
The course is free of charge, but you will need to pay for your own membership and registration fees with the relevant NGB.
With a degree in Adventure Performance and Coaching you will hold a valuable array of knowledge and skills that are transferable to any of the various aspects of the UK or international adventure sector.
Adventure coaching covers a wide range of career pathways and specialist fields, including:
Your career will grow and change as the years go on, and your degree will prepare you for other related areas and possible future growth, so you may also find yourself involved in:
You can progress from the BSc (Hons) Adventure Performance and Coaching to the following postgraduate courses:
I would recommend this course to anyone wanting to go into performance and coaching as there is an inbuilt balance, developing both aspects for the athlete or the instructor.
For example, I have done my personal performance awards in paddle sports, whilst also going to the local climbing wall with a qualified instructor as part of a class on coaching skills, using video analysis as an aid.
Therefore, I would put this course above many others like it in the UK.
I plan to investigate Adventure Psychology, looking at the effects of adventure on the cognitive development of children and whether it could be used to combat childhood obesity as opposed to traditional sports.
I am considering a Master’s, so the future is looking bright!
Sian McWalter is studying the BA (Hons) Adventure Performance and Coaching at UHI West Highland.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-adventure-tourism-management:
Course code N870
Adventure tourism is the fastest growing, truly global area of the tourism industry that has taken the adventure sector by storm in recent decades, bringing adventurous activity experiences into commercial tourism.
Join our BA (Hons) Adventure Tourism Management and focus on tourism and business practices within the adventure sector, applied through essential practical and professional skills for leadership and safety.
Your future customers will expect great service and a safe experience that satisfies their dreams of adventure and adventure travel: learn the skills and knowledge to be the adventure professional who can deliver their ultimate experience, managing every element with a critical understanding of the ethical and professional values required.
The programme integrates theoretical knowledge with practice via classroom learning, experiential learning, and research, progressively building your confidence and skills as a guide and practitioner.
Cover outdoor skills practice, safety and leadership, tourism, research, business, and entrepreneurship, all underpinned by a growing and deepening understanding of the meaning of 'adventure'.
Learn how to lead and shape great experiences for people in a vast range of possible outdoor and adventure contexts around the world, and build your knowledge and skills in sustainable and pro-environmental practices.
We work closely with Adventure Tourism providers and larger scale organisations to give you direct access to professional-level experiences and practices at all levels, providing  you with a wide range of national and international connections for opportunities like work placements, projects, and shared practice.
The capabilities we build in our programmes are life-long skills that transfer into many different future career paths.
Unlock your potential and become part of the story of shaping this dynamic sector.
No tuition fees are charged, but there is currently no additional funding available for travel and living expenses, beyond normal student funding streams.
You will also choose one further option module, from:
You will also choose two option modules, which may include:
You will also choose three option modules which may include:
Module costs Introduction to Sports Coaching and Leadership (core, year 1) : this includes an opportunity to complete training for a UK National Governing Body qualification in climbing, paddlesports or mountain biking.
Adventure Education Journeys (optional, year 1) : there is a mandatory residential experience in this module at Outward Bound Loch Eil, costing approximately £90 for 3 days full-board.
International Expedition Leadership (optional year 3) : this involves undertaking an international expedition, which is subsidised by UHI North, West and Hebrides.
With a degree in Adventure Tourism Management you will hold a valuable array of knowledge and skills that are transferable to any of the various aspects of the UK or international adventure sector.
Adventure Tourism covers a wide range of career pathways and specialist fields, including:
Current potential progression opportunities for BA (Hons) Adventure Tourism Management graduates include:
Growing up in the Highlands, I loved being in the outdoors and I had lots of opportunities.
I chose this course because I wanted to expand my understanding of adventure and become a better advocate for our industry.
The degree has been packed full of great content.
I have learned such a lot and I’ve been able to apply it.
In the months ahead, I will be going to Knoydart to carry out sessions, I will go to Badaguish to use technology to enhance experiences in sports and I am involved in a Family Cycling Festival with the Fort William Foxes and West Highland Wheelers.
It’s great putting what you’ve learned into play, in a safe environment to make mistakes and learn from them with your lecturers, instructors and class mates alongside.
Access to NGBs for improving your skill set is invaluable as is access to the library.
Having lecturers point me in the best direction for literature has been a privilege.
I have increased my knowledge and understanding of the industry.
After the degree - a master’s, create my own business or do some travelling?
The list is endless but after completing the degree it opens doors for jobs I'd like to pursue.
Rhiannan is studying the BA (Hons) Adventure Tourism Management at UHI North, West and Highland.
This course felt right for me because of what it has to offer and how different it is to other courses around the world.
It's very unique and it was the perfect choice for me- I didn’t consider any other universities.
When it comes to UHI I love how like-minded and friendly people are, the lecturers are also extremely interesting and have hundreds of incredible stories to tell.
The Highlands of Scotland has the most stunning scenery and we get to go out and enjoy it on our practical days.
At UHI, each day is different, you’ll find yourself sat in the classroom on a Monday and on a Thursday you're out playing in the hills.
Tiandra studied the Adventure Tourism Management at UHI North, West and Highland.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/beng-hons-aircraft-engineering:
Course code H414
The BEng (Hons) Aircraft Engineering course is an exciting degree that will equip you with an in-depth engineering knowledge across a broad range of modern aeronautical technologies.
If you have decided on an exhilarating career as an aeronautical engineer, this course will provide the knowledge and skills you need to analyse complex aircraft engineering situations and solve aeronautical engineering problems.
If you would like to specifically become a licenced aircraft engineer, you may wish to apply to our BSc (Hons) Aircraft Maintenance Engineering and Management instead as it is tailored for this specific job role.
Please apply to the HNC Aircraft Engineering if you wish to study the first year of this course.
Please apply to the HND Aircraft Engineering if you wish to study the second year of this course.
Entry to year 3 of this course is not possible for 2025/26.
Once you have successfully completed your BEng (Hons) Aircraft Engineering course, you might like to consider the following careers or sectors:
On successful completion of the BEng (Hons) Aircraft Engineering you may progress to the MBA Business Administration (Aviation) .
This was the right course for me because I knew I wanted to be an engineer, and I love aircraft and spacecraft.
I also liked that the Perth campus was close to Edinburgh.
I am very grateful for all the support I found at UHI.
The lecturers always make the best out of every class, and we’ve often been asked for feedback to tailor the classes to our needs.
I feel supported by the staff at UHI.
As part of my work placement, I worked with an aviation company.
This course has opened the door to the future I want, and given me the skills to pursue a career in engineering.
The facilities here are very good, and I can for sure say that my favourite places in the campus are the Aviation Hub, where I spend a lot of times due to my studies, and the climbing wall, where some of my classmates and I have been going for a while to relax and distract ourselves from the course.
Scotland has among the best natural sceneries I have ever seen.
When the sun shines it feels unreal how beautiful it is.
I love driving north and enjoying the Highlands and Islands, it really makes my time here special.
I often think about my future, and I know I will miss these times.
Erica studies BEng (Hons) Aircraft Engineering at UHI Perth.
I moved to Scotland from Bulgaria to study, and UHI was my first choice for university.
I love having smaller class sizes, this means we get personal support from lecturers.
The skills gained at UHI Perth have immensely increased my employability and allowed for personal growth.
My studies helped me secure a remote placement at the Clean Combustion Research Center at KAUST in Saudi Arabia.
While studying, I was part of the Adventurous Activities Club at UHI Perth, and I am obsessed with the beauty of the Highlands- my favourite thing to do in my free time is going hiking with my classmates and spending time in nature.
Iliana studied the BEng (Hons) Aircraft Engineering at UHI Perth.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnc-aircraft-engineering:
Course code 014H
This HNC is an engineering technician-level course with content similar to the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) syllabus for certifying aircraft mechanics within the aviation operations industry.
You will study subjects including aerodynamics, aircraft propulsion systems and aircraft structures and materials.
You will study the following units:
Successful completion of the HNC will allow you to seek employment as an engineering technician or apprentice in the aviation industry.
On successful completion of this course, you may progress onto the HND Aircraft Engineering course or onto the first year of the BSc (Hons) Aircraft Maintenance Engineering and Management degree programme.
Erica studies Aircraft engineering at UHI Perth.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnd-aircraft-engineering:
Course code 114H
This HND is an engineering technician-level course with content similar to the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) syllabus for certifying aircraft mechanics with the aviation operations industry.
Successful completion of the course will allow you direct access to year three of a BEng (Hons) Aircraft Engineering.
Entry to year 1, the HNC Aircraft Engineering :
Entry to year two may be available with an HNC Aircraft Engineering (15 SQA credits).
Year 1 of this course is the HNC Aircraft Engineering .
On completion of your course, you might like to consider careers in aircraft maintenance or aircraft management/operations.
On successful completion, you may wish to progress to a BEng (Hons) Aircraft Engineering.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/bsc-hons-aircraft-maintenance-engineering-and-management:
Course code H410
Are you considering aviation as a career?
Are you looking to study towards a Part 66 Aircraft Maintenance Licence?
Would you like your training delivered by an organisation that has served the training needs of the aviation and aerospace sector for 40 years and employs over 100 people across the UK, Switzerland, Germany, Spain, France and Asia, with over 1100 staff deployed on contracts across the globe and trains in excess of 1000 industry professionals annually.
This unique course is the only one of its kind in the UK and is designed to produce graduate-calibre aircraft maintenance engineers.
The BSc (Hons) Aircraft Maintenance Engineering and Management incorporates the syllabus requirements of the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) and United Kingdom Civil Aviation Authority (UKCAA) Category B1.1 aircraft maintenance licence syllabus (EASA Part-66)*.
It provides you with the opportunity to obtain an Approved EASA and/or UKCAA Part 66 Certificate of Recognition in addition to an ordinary or honours level BSc degree.
The Approved Part 66 Certificate of Recognition allows a substantial reduction of the minimum aircraft maintenance experience required by an individual prior to applying for an aircraft maintenance licence.
Obtaining a Category B1.1 licence is the first step on the path to becoming a certifying, licensed aircraft engineer, a person responsible for signing-off (certifying) the work carried out on aircraft, systems and equipment.
The course is taught by staff with industrial experience both in military and civilian environments.
You will combine academic and technical knowledge, understanding and skills, with the personal qualities and leadership skills needed to succeed in this dynamic industry.
In years one and two, you will develop hand and maintenance skills of aircraft components and equipment, including system diagnosis, structural repairs and inspection techniques on a variety of airframes, alongside essential academic knowledge in areas such as maths, aerodynamics and propulsion.
Unlike many other aircraft management courses, the third year provides an insight into the management roles within an aircraft maintenance environment and the wider knowledge and skills required by the aviation industry.
In your final year you will complete a capstone project which will give you the opportunity to showcase all the skills you have acquired.
You will be based at UHI Perth and experience approximately 65 days of practical activities at a regional airport where you will complete your work experience in a real commercial EASA/UKCAA Part 145 maintenance environment.
You will also benefit from close links with many companies in the aviation industry within Scotland, the UK and worldwide.
* Applications to complete other licence categories will be considered on application but cannot be guaranteed.
PLUS
Advanced entry to year three:
Option modules may include:
You will  undertake approximately 65 days of practical experience on a residential work placement, delivered in Humberside.
Accommodation and travel costs will be covered by UHI.
An optional 6-week professional training package (AMET) is offered in year three or after you have completed your final year, for which there is an additional charge of £2,500; this package forms part of the requirements to gain fast-track issuing of a category B Licence but it is not needed to obtain the degree.
Students will be responsible for all living and travel costs whilst undertaking AMET.
Successful completion of this course will allow you to enhance your career prospects within the aviation industry, particularly the aircraft maintenance sector.
The primary career route expected upon completion of the course is a licensed aircraft maintenance engineer.
This role is divided into the following categories:
The B licence together with the degree can lead to roles such as:
The skills you will learn and develop during this course are also transferable to many other roles within the aviation industry, as well as sectors including oil and gas, renewables and nuclear.
On successful completion of the course you may wish to consider progression to our MBA Business Administration (Aviation) .

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/certhe-an-cursa-adhartais:
Course code Q501
Tha Teisteanas a’ Chùrsa Adhartais a’ tabhann cothrom dhut gu do mhisneachd a leasachadh anns gach taobh de na sgilean conaltraidh ann an Gàidhlig.
Bheir e dhut bunait làidir airson tuilleadh ionnsachaidh tro mheadhan na Gàidhlig agus neartaichidh e do chothroman ann am faotainn cosnadh ann an roinn na Gàidhlig.
Tha an cùrsa air a lìbhrigeadh tro ionnsachadh air astar air-loidhne agus tha e co-ionann ris a’ chiad bhliadhna den chùrsa ceum Gàidhlig is Sgrùdaidhean Co-cheangailte.
Tha an cùrsa seo a’ còmhdachadh nam puingean gràmair a th’ anns a’ Chùrsa Chomais agus a’ cleachdadh na h-aon dòighean teagaisg agus ionnsachaidh ris A’ Chùrsa Inntrigidh.
Thoir aire:
Airson oileanaich a tha mar as trice a’ fuireach ann an Alba, le seòladh teirm ann an Alba, bidh na cìsean a leanas an sàs:
Tha seo a’ gabhail a-steach
Airson oileanaich a tha mar as trice a’ fuireach anns a’ chòrr den RA (Sasainn, a’ Chuimrigh agus Èirinn a Tuath, a’ gabhail a-steach Eileanan a’ Chaolais agus Eilean Mhanainn) agus aig a bheil seòladh rè teirm ann an Alba, bidh na cìsean a leanas an sàs:
Tha cìsean rim pàigheadh ro làimh gach bliadhna acadaimigeach mura h-aontaichear a chaochladh.
Tha grunn froghainnean maoineachaidh rim faighinn le oileanaich na RA gus do chuideachadh le bhith a’ pàigheadh airson do chuid ionnsachaidh agus do chosgais bith-beò fhad ‘s a tha thu ag ionnsachadh.
Chan eil an cùrsa seo ri fhaighinn airson oileanaich eadar-nàiseanta, a’ gabhail a-steach nàiseanaich an EU/EEA agus às an Eilbheis gun inbhe shuidhichte san RA, a dh’ fheumas urrasachd bhìosa Slighe Oileanach sgrùdadh a dhèanamh an seo.
Airson oileanaich a tha a’ fuireach san RA agus air am measadh mar inbhe chìsean eadar-nàiseanta, bidh na cìsean a leanas an sàs:
Tha seo a’ toirt a-steach nàiseantaich EEA/Eilbheis le inbhe ro-shuidhichte nach eil ag obair air an ceann fhèin no nan luchd-obrach imrich san RA.
Aon uair ’s gun coilion thu An Cùrsa Adhartais gu soirbheachail, faodaidh gum bi ùidh agad anns na dreuchdan a leanas:
Tha an CertHE An Cùrsa Adhartais a’ leigeil leat dol air adhart ris na cùrsaichean a leanas:
Dh’ionnsaich mi Gàidhlig tron àrd-sgoil air fad, agus fiù ’s às deidh dhomh fo-cheum a dhèanamh ann am Foghlam A-Muigh, bha mi ag iarraidh Gàidhlig ionnsachadh gu ceart, agus mar sin thàinig mi a UHI.
Tha a h-uile duine eòlach air a chèile agus tha iad uile cho càirdeil agus taiceil.
Chan fhaigheadh sibh na cothroman a fhuair mi an seo an àite sam bith eile.
Tha na h-òraidichean sgoinneil, tha iad cho taiceil, bheir iad ùine dhuibh a bhith a’ bruidhinn mu dheidhinn rud sam bith, bidh tòrr Gàidhlig ga bruidhinn fiù ’s taobh a-muigh a’ chlas, rud a tha mìorbhaileach airson ionnsachadh.
Bha mi a’ seinn na pìoba ann an caismeachdan agus tallaichean baile fhad ’s a bha mi an seo.
Bha mi cuideachd a’ cluich rugbaidh ann an club rugbaidh ùr an Eilein Sgitheanaich.
Tha mi a’ fuireach ann an àite-fuirich nan oileanach an seo, tha na seallaidhean gun choimeas, tha an t-àite-fuirich air a bhith gu math snog.
Rinn Màrtainn cùrsa ann an Gàidhlig aig Sabhal Mòr Ostaig, fear de chom-pàirtichean UHI.
Tha sinn air leth toilichte gu bheil thu a' beachdachadh air ionnsachadh aig Oilthigh na Gàidhealtachd agus nan Eilean.
Tha siostam inntrigidh UHI cothromach is fosgailte agus sinn dealasach a bhith a' tairgsinn co-ionannachd cothruim is a' seachnadh leth-bhreith.
Bidh gach tagradh air a mheas a rèir airidheachd agus comas coileanaidh, gun leth-bhreith a thaobh gnè, aois, ciorraim, cinnidh no suidheachaidh shòiseo-eaconamaich.
Bidh sinn a' cur fàilte air iarrtasan bho gach uile duine a tha ag iarraidh bhith na oileanach leinn agus tha e na amas againn seirbheisean iomchaidh is èifeachdach a thabhann do oileanaich le ciorraman.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/certhe-an-cursa-adhartais-english:
The An Cùrsa Adhartais Certificate offers you the opportunity to develop your confidence in all aspects of communication skills in Gaelic.
It will provide you with a solid foundation for further study through the medium of Gaelic and improve your prospects in securing employment in the Gaelic sector.
The course is delivered by online distance learning and is equivalent to the first year of the Gaelic and Related Studies degree course.
The course covers the language points contained within An Cùrsa Comais and uses the same teaching and learning methodologies as An Cùrsa Inntrigidh.
Please note:
For students who do not normally reside in the UK, studying online from their home country, or living in the UK but assessed as international for fee status, the following fees apply:
This includes EU/EEA and Swiss nationals without settled status in the UK and EEA and Swiss nationals with pre-settled status who are not self-employed or migrant workers in the UK
Once you have successfully completed the An Cùrsa Adhartais Certificate, you might like to consider pursuing a career in:
The CertHE An Cùrsa Adhartais allows progression to  courses such as our DipHE Gaelic and Related Studies .
I studied Gaelic all though high school, and even after doing my undergraduate in Outdoor Education, I really wanted to learn Gaelic properly, and so I came to UHI.
Everyone knows each other and are so friendly and supportive.
The opportunities I’ve had from being here, you couldn’t get them anywhere else.
The lecturers are great, they are so supportive, they will take the time to speak to you about anything, there’s a lot of Gaelic spoken even outside of class, which is wonderful for learning.
I’ve played bagpipes processions and in town halls while being here, I’ve also played rugby in the new Skye rugby club.
I’m staying in student accommodation here, the views are next to none, the accommodation has been really nice.
Martin studied Gaelic at Sabhal Mòr Ostaig, a partner of UHI.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/certhe-an-cursa-comais:
Course code Q532
'S e cùrsa Gàidhlig diana agus eadar-obrachail a tha anns a' Chùrsa Chomais a tha deasaichte dha luchd-ionnsachaidh eadar-mheadhanach a tha ag amas a bhith fileanta sa chànan.
’S ann air sgilean cànain a tha prìomh fhòcas a’ chùrsa, an dà chuid labhairte agus sgrìobhte, ach thèid cuspairean eile a ghabhail a-steach feadh a’ chùrsa.
Bidh cothrom agad trì seachdainean de ghreis-dhreuchdail a dhèanamh ann an àrainneachd Ghàidhlig agus na sgilean teòiridh ùra agad a chur gu feum.
Modalan riatanach:
Modalan roghainneil:
*Sabhal Mòr Ostaig UHI a-mhàin.
Airson oileanaich nach àbhaist a bhith a’ fuireach san RA, a’ gabhail a-steach nàiseanaich an EU/EEA agus Eilbheis gun inbhe stèidhichte no ro-shuidhichte san RA, le seòladh teirm ann an Alba, bidh na cìsean a leanas an sàs:
Dh'fhaodar sgoilearachdan agus tùsan maoineachaidh eile a bhith rim faotainn.
Cuir fios chun na colaiste airson tuilleadh fiosrachaidh.
Aon uair ’s gun coilion thu An Cùrsa Comais gu soirbheachail, faodaidh gum bi ùidh agad ann an dreuchd ann an teagasg Gàidhlig no na meadhanan Gàidhlig.
Aon uair ’s gun coilion thu an cùrsa agad, is urrainn dhut dol air adhart ri farsaingeachd de chùrsaichean Gàidhlig eile, a' gabhail a-steach:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/certhe-an-cursa-comais-english:
An Cùrsa Comais is an intensive and interactive Gaelic language course for intermediate-level learners aiming for fluency in the language.
The major focus is on language skills, both speaking and writing, but other subjects are introduced as the course progresses.
You will get the opportunity to take a three-week work placement in a Gaelic environment and apply your newly acquired theory skills.
*Sabhal Mòr Ostaig UHI only.
Once you have successfully completed the An Cùrsa Comais course you might like to consider pursuing a career in Gaelic teaching or in the Gaelic media.
Once you’ve completed your studies, you can progress on to a variety of other Gaelic-related courses, including:
Once I’ve finished studying, I would like to use CertHE An Cùrsa Comais along with my degree in Outdoor Education for my career, and definitely want to stay in the area.
If you’re thinking of studying at UHI, just go for it!
Martin studied on the CertHE An Cùrsa Comais at Sabhal Mòr Ostaig, a partner of UHI.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/msc-applied-data-analytics:
Course code I260
Are you interested in making an impactful and effective contribution to business through data science?
If so, this MSc Applied Data Analytics will allow you to develop your skills and knowledge in data analytics techniques and evaluate their relevance and validity.
You will learn key data science skills using freely available software.
Core subjects will cover fundamental theories, ethical considerations and industry-standard techniques, while optional modules will allow you to focus on specific applications.
The range of options include business, computational, and environmental themes.
As part of the environmental options, you will gain experience with GIS software and spatial analysis, while in the business-themed options the focus is on business decisions and effective communication – can you help it move toward data-driven decision-making?
The computational theme has an emphasis on software and machine learning.
This part-time course is delivered online, allowing you the flexibility to fit your studies around your personal and professional commitments and tailor your option choices to suit your specific areas of interest.
This course may also be of interest to companies wishing to use it as continuing professional development for their employees.
Further information on the course, including more detail about the individual modules, can be found in the student handbooks, which are frequently updated.
Please see the course handbook for more information.
Funding opportunities are currently available - please see our fees tab for further information.
The MSc Applied Data Analytics is made up of 4 core modules, 2 optional modules (from one or more of our three themes) and a dissertation.
PgCert: To gain the PgCert, you will complete one core module plus two other modules (either core or optional)
Core modules:
Optional modules:
Business theme
Environmental theme
Computational theme
To gain the PgDip, you will complete all four core modules plus two chosen optional modules
To achieve the award of MSc Applied Data Analytics, you must also successfully complete a dissertation.
Number of hours per week indicates the total number of hours you should dedicate to the course, which includes time spent in classes and your own time spent on individual study and research.
Ireland, including Channel Islands and the Isle of Man), studying this course on-campus or online from their home, the following fees apply:
EU/EEA and Swiss nationals without settled or pre-settled status in the UK
These students will get an automatic fee scholarship.
For students who do not normally reside in the UK or European Union, studying on-campus or online, the following fees apply:
Eligible Scotland-domiciled students studying full-time can access loans up to £11,500 from the Student Awards Agency for Scotland (SAAS) .
This comprises a tuition fee loan up to £7,000 and a non-income assessed living cost loan of £4,500.
Data Lab funded spaces
We have been awarded some funded spaces through the Data Lab MSc programme, including funding by the Scottish Funding Council.
These scholarships are available for students who have received an unconditional offer for the MSc and meet the Scottish Government’s Residency conditions.
Please refer to SAAS.gov.uk guidance for clarification.
EU students with settled or pre-settled status may be eligible.
If you are interested in a funded place, or have any questions, please contact: data.science.ic@uhi.ac.uk .
For any further information please visit The Data Lab .
There are also scholarships that may be available to individual students through the Digital Health & Care Innovation Centre.
For more information, please visit their website or contact the team on data.science.ic@uhi.ac.uk
If you are an international applicant, you can find further information at our international section .
On successful completion of the course you will be well suited for any role with a strong emphasis on data analysis or data science.
You might also like to take dual roles within a business, marrying your underlying subject knowledge with your data science skills.
You may progress on to any data focussed MRes or PhD project that also makes use of your underlying subject knowledge gained through experience or undergraduate qualifications.
After a 25 year career in Engineering I was looking for a career change and after doing some research, a career in Data grabbed my attention.
UHI Inverness Campus was the perfect choice for my studies, which was a combination of the right course in the right location.
The support has been excellent and being part of a course with a smaller class has meant we have had more personalised teaching with the lectures being flexible to adapt to what we may need more help with on a week-by-week basis.
I have undertaken a paid placement for the Scottish Government, and already I can see many opportunities opening up both locally and across the country.
There are more opportunities out there than graduates to fill them!
If you are considering UHI, I would say go for it!
The campus at UHI Inverness is such an excellent place to study with its spacious new open planned building within an open parkland environment.
I have noticed it’s a very supportive and inclusive environment to study, with a warm and welcoming community.
Learning at UHI has been a life changing experience!
Colin Stevenson is studying the MSc Applied Data Science at UHI Inverness.
I chose UHI due to the ability to study online and part time.
The course gave the option to choose different pathways and in particular, the environmental route using Geographic Information Systems, which wasn’t a feature of other data analytics courses I’ve looked at.
The lecturers and tutors have all been excellent.
They are all enthusiastic about the modules they teach and that comes across to the students.
Andrew Duncan, the Programme Leader keeps us up to date with the course and regularly checks in to make sure everything is progressing okay.
My favourite thing about UHI is that it has reignited a love of learning and given me an increased confidence in my data analytical skills.
I also really value the ability to undertake the course remotely and on a part time basis, as I have been able to work while studying.
Joy Nicolson is studying the MSc Applied Data Science at UHI Inverness.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/msc-integrated-applied-marine-science:
Course code F714
There’s never been a more vital time to study Marine Science.
Our oceans face urgent challenges: climate change, biodiversity loss, and the unsustainable use of precious resources.
Let us equip you with the knowledge and skills to tackle these issues head-on via our MSc (Integrated) Applied Marine Science, at the Scottish Association for Marine Science (SAMS).
This integrated master's programme offers a 5-year, SCQF level 7-11 course, blending academic excellence with hands-on experience.
Designed by active researchers at the UK’s oldest oceanographic institute, you will gain a holistic understanding of marine biology, chemistry, physics, and geology, from Scottish sea lochs to tropical reefs and polar oceans.
You’ll study in an inspiring coastal setting near Oban, nestled between a 13th-century castle and a cutting-edge marine science park.
Our students benefit from exceptional staff support, access to world-class research facilities, and you’ll enjoy a year-long integrated work placement, preparing you for a career as a leader, researcher, or innovator in the marine sector.
You will also study one of the following optional modules:
You will study the following core module:
You will also study five of the following optional modules:
You will also study four of the following optional modules:
You are expected to purchase a lab coat either from the university or from an alternative supplier (lab coats cost approximately £20).
As the course contains substantial elements of fieldwork, waterproof clothing may also be required.
Participation in extra-curricular expeditions such as the Red Sea ‘Tropical Ecosystems’ field course will be an additional cost which you will be responsible for.
You may wish to progress from this MSc (Integrated) Applied Marine Science to PhD study.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-applied-music:
Course code W301
Prepare yourself for the music industry of the future on this acclaimed course, studying any genre or style of your choice in your home region.
Exploring traditional, Celtic, pop, jazz, classical, and rock genres, explore the culture of the Highlands and Islands, with focus on application of music in a variety of professional contexts.
Learn from professionals at the top of their fields, and develop skills in performance, education, recording, creative production, business, enterprise, networking, and communication, helping you access opportunities close to home and internationally.
With many graduates successfully employed in fields such as performance, education, touring, research, and music business, join a programme with excellent industry connections and get your career in applied music off to an excellent start.
Please email us if you have any questions.
Advanced entry to year 2:
Advanced entry to year 3:
You will also choose option modules which may include:
Ireland) or assessed as rest of the UK for fee status the following fees apply:
This course is not available to students domiciled outside of the UK or for international students (including EU/EEA and Swiss nationals without settled status in the UK) requiring Student Route visa sponsorship to study here.
A no fee increase guarantee is available for self-funding full-time and structured part-time rest of the UK and international undergraduate students for continuous study for the same award, up to the permitted standard time limit for the relevant award.
Once you have successfully completed your BA (Hons) Applied Music you might like to consider a career in the following areas:
You can progress to the MA Music and the Environment , MMus Music or MRes Creative Practice .

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnc-applied-sciences:
Course code 0CFG
The HNC Applied Sciences is a wide-ranging course, covering the theoretical and practical aspects of modern sciences.
You will study ecology, environmental issues, and the core sciences; develop your laboratory skills; and improve your research and writing skills.
You will learn a broad range of sciences, such as Chemistry, Biology, Physics and Environmental disciplines.
Developing scientific theoretical knowledge and scientific communication and presentations skills.
The Graded Unit gives you the opportunity to conduct specialised research in a topic that will hone your scientific knowledge in your chosen field for progression.
The course includes a large amount of training in essential practical skills within the laboratory that are relevant to local and national employers.
You will acquire knowledge of Health and Safety Systems and Good Laboratory Practice, developing skills of experimentation, analysis and reporting in practical sessions, skills that are highly transferrable to employment and further study.
Be prepared to spend plenty of hands on time in the lab, conducting experiments and processing your results in the Laboratory Skills unit.
Basic skills in Maths and Statistics are covered to enhance scientific analysis of experimental and field data.
The ethical and environmental issues raised by these units will be discussed in the Environmental Awareness unit.
Where possible, you will be invited on site visits to local science industries and given the opportunity to appreciate and understand the key issues and problems the industry encounters, all valuable experience for entering the science industry.
Mandatory units may include:
Semester 1
Semester 2
Semesters 1 and 2
Optional units may include: Semester 1
Employment opportunities are typically at technician or researcher level in science-related industries, such as hospital laboratories, life science industry, material, environmental and microbiology laboratories.
The course will prepare you for further study in many science disciplines in Biology, Environmental Science, Chemistry, and Physics, such as biotechnology, immunology, genetics, zoology, biochemistry, ecology, and medical physics.
On successful completion of this course, you may be able to progress onto the first or second year of our degree programmes, including:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/msc-applied-social-sciences-globalisation-and-crime:
Course code L3GC
Are you interested in exploring and understanding the world around you, particularly in relation to globalisation and crime, via the theory and application of the social sciences?
The MSc Applied Social Sciences: Globalisation and Crime is a unique, multi-disciplinary programme that allows you to explore these critical issues using the disciplines of psychology, sociology, criminology, and politics, to gain in-depth understanding of these complex situations and employ your knowledge in the real world.
You will apply theory from the social sciences in order to reflect upon and comprehend these phenomena, ultimately using your understanding to enhance society, particularly in relation to globalisation and crime.
You will undertake seven modules, including: forensic and criminal psychology; globalisation, work and society; world of terror; transnational crime; research methods and techniques; applied research project; and a dissertation.
You will have the opportunity to complete a project based on a work placement or relevant site/organisation relating to these topics, and complete a substantial piece of individual research.
*You may be required to obtain PVG membership before commencing a work placement for this module, depending on your choice of placement, site or organisation
To achieve the award of MSc Applied Social Sciences: Globalisation and Crime, you must complete a dissertation.
Ireland) or assessed as rest of the UK for fee status, the following fees apply:
For students who do not normally reside in the UK or European Union, studying online from their home country, or assessed as international for fee status, the following fees apply:
This course is not available to international students requiring Student Route visa sponsorship to study in the UK.
If you choose to study the Applied research project module, you may need to apply and pay for PVG membership, depending on your choice of placement, site and organisation.
You may wish to progress from this MSc Applied Social Sciences: Globalisation and Crime to PhD study.
My favourite aspects of this course are using my professional and practical knowledge in an academic forum and the sharing of professional insights from students from different professional backgrounds.
I have attended and delivered inputs and presentations to various student groups at UHI Inverness.
The best thing about studying at UHI is the ability to interact with students throughout country.
My advice if you are considering postgraduate study would just be to go for it!
Angie studied the Applied Science: Globalization and Crime at UHI Perth.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/bsc-hons-applied-software-development:
Course code I310
Did you know that artificial intelligence and data analytics are being used by IBM to support rhino conservation in Africa?
Or that IBM Blockchain is used to trace products through a supply chain, from farm to fork, reducing the risk of food-borne illness and fraud?
Do you want to be involved in creating software that helps solve a range of global challenges just like this?
In collaboration with IBM , we have created this innovative BSc (Hons) Applied Software Development degree to help you develop the skills, knowledge, creativity and confidence to be successful within this field.
Replicating modern software development practices, you will work in teams throughout the programme.
Set entirely online, a typical day will begin with a short meeting to set the team’s priorities, allowing you to manage your time between practical work, directed learning and scheduled tutorials.
You will work to develop a portfolio that will be attractive to employers; this will be used by your tutors to assess your individual contribution to each project.
Team work will be supported by an annual boot camp delivered at the start of each academic year.
You will have access to world-class technical input from professional mentors and guest speakers, and be encouraged to develop individual expertise and industry contacts.
IBM and the IBM logo are trademarks of International Business Machines Corp, registered in many jurisdictions worldwide.
You will work with projects, building your foundational skills and introducing you to Agile practices.
Core concepts covered:
You will work on industry-related projects and develop your portfolio of work.
You will explore the start and end of the software development lifecycle, looking at lean methodologies, and how businesses use data to inform their actions.
You will work on a single product, looking at project and technical considerations including business planning and finding investors.
You will access learning materials via the university's virtual learning environment (VLE), and scheduled tutorials by video conference.
You will use modern software development tools to work with fellow students in your project teams
Find out more about how this course is structured from the development team
You can choose one of the above partners to apply to, and will be enrolled and supported by staff at your chosen location.
For students who do not normally reside in the UK studying online from their home country, or living in the UK but assessed as international for fee status, the following fees apply:
This course is not open for international students requiring Student Route visa sponsorship to study in the UK.
Once you have successfully completed BSc (Hons) Applied Software Development, you may wish to pursue a career in the following fields:
You may wish to progress to a postgraduate course such as MSc Web Technologies, or pursue a PGDE with a view to becoming a computing teacher.
I didn’t consider any other universities because none of them offered this unique course, which has allowed me to study in a way that suits my hands on learning style.
The style of teaching is fantastic.
The remote format suits my personality in such a way that I always feel motivated to start the next day of learning and course engagement.
One of the crucial aspects of this learning format is that I get to practice working and engaging as if I was in a real software development team.
Using current industry practices and frameworks, such as Agile.
This experience is crucial to enable my transition into the industry.
I can turn my hobby of coding in a career.
I feel empowered and in control of my learning journey.
The learning style keeps me engaged and sets my on the path towards an easy transition into the industry.
If that wasn’t great enough, I’m paired with a personal IBM mentor.
They open doors for me and organise meetings with their colleagues so that they can lend me their expertise and wisdom.
The staff are the fantastic.They have a wealth of experience and knowledge.
It is crucial, for success, to have the inclusive and inviting learning environment that they provide.
I am going to get some employment within the industry, maybe as full stack or android app developer.
Then when I feel ready, I’ll transition into starting my own business.
I am also able to network and build contacts within the industry.
Martin studies the BSc Applied Software Development at UHI North, West and Hebrides.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/svq-aquaculture-management-scqf-level-9:
Course code 95D4
This SVQ has been designed in partnership with the Sector Skills Council, Lantra, and in response to the aquaculture industry requirements for work-based management training.
The programme is offered, and assessment carried out, in the workplace, minimising any need to be away from work.
The qualification covers areas such as managing the aquatic production environment for farmed fish/shellfish, and managing the production of farmed fish/shellfish for sale or transfer.
It also covers: planning and managing of shellfish depuration operations; implementation of the site fish health plan; fish/shellfish hatchery production; and a variety of operational and managerial units.
The university, through UHI Shetland and UHI Argyll, is the only institution offering the SVQ4 Aquaculture Management.
You will also choose four option modules:
Once you have successfully completed this course, you might like to consider careers in the finfish aquaculture industry such as aquaculture site manager.
I didn’t consider any other universities as it was online, flexible, gave me higher-level knowledge and certification, and not to mention it was fully supported by the company I worked for.
The tutors provide helpful guidance throughout your studies, demonstrating a deep understanding of the articles and modules.
The CPD Aquaculture Management gave me more confidence, especially when I’m accepting a new challenge in my career- the knowledge, I received from the course helped me to step forward in my studies and career.
Go for it; it is worth it.
During the 9 months of online study at UHI, there will be enough time, even if you are working, to write your essays and acquire new knowledge about aquaculture management skills.
My highlights were the data collection, collaborations, and new connections!
Andras studied the CPD Aquaculture Management at UHI Shetland.
The SVQ Aquaculture Management SCQF level 9 has flexible start dates throughout the year.
To apply to UHI Shetland, please use one of the options Aug 2025 or Jan 2026 or May 2026
Or use the following link to apply to UHI Argyll

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/msc-aquaculture-environment-and-society:
Course code D435
The Erasmus Mundus Joint Masters Degree in Aquaculture, Environment and Society* STAR (EMJMD ACES-STAR) offers specialised training to deliver highly skilled graduates capable of addressing the challenge of food provision for a growing world population and ecosystem restoration at a time of climate change.
Food security and ecosystem restoration, through aquaculture, is of global importance and, in the face of declining resources, aquaculture will have an increasing demand for people with in-depth knowledge and practical expertise to enable this major industry to produce nutritious, high-quality, affordable foods and other products.
Graduates will be capable of addressing these challenges and will have exciting international career opportunities.
The sustainable development of the aquaculture industry in Europe has become essential for improving the competitiveness of this sector internationally.
There are, however, many major scientific, technological and social obstacles to overcome.
Students will be equipped with the necessary skills to tackle these obstacles in the years to come.
*subject to re-validation
To achieve the Erasmus Mundus Joint Masters degree, you must successfully complete 3-5 modules (each worth 5-10 ECTS, equivalent to 10-20 SQCF) at each of the partner institutions, and a research dissertation (30 ECTS or 60 SQCF).
Scottish Association for Marine Science UHI modules (Semester 1 - first September):
University of Crete modules (Semester 2):
University of Nantes modules (Semester 3 - second September):
You must also complete a dissertation module (Semester 4): You may choose to study this module at SAMS, the University of Crete, the University of Nantes, or at any of our 64 affiliated partners
Please note fees are in Euros and will be charged based on the current exchange rate.
Erasmus Mundus Scholarships are available for this programme, which cover tuition fees, insurance, travel, and monthly subsistence costs.
Scottish Aquaculture Innovation Centre scholarships are available to cover tuition fees.
Please see website – www.emm-aces.org for full details.
Additional costs will apply to students without the Erasmus Mundus scholarship and will include: clothing (lab coats); relocation costs between Host Partners (approximately £150); and travel insurance costs.
On successful completion of the programme you will receive a Joint Masters Degree from the University of the Highlands and Islands and the University of Crete, and a single degree from the University of Nantes.
In addition to these qualifications, you will also receive a diploma supplement from each core partner.
You will emerge with detailed knowledge of the global aquaculture industry and with the benefit of practical work experience in this sector.
Our alumni are typically employed within three months of completing the course.
Approxiately 50% secure PhDs internationally and 50% go on to be employed within the sector.
Employers have included:
Roles within the industry have included:
For more information, please visit the careers and employability page at: www.emm-aces.org

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/msc-archaeological-practice:
Course code V460
The MSc Archaeological Practice is a world-leading archaeology course which equips you with the tools for work in the real world.
The course combines an emphasis on the key practical skills essential for a career within the archaeological profession with a critical study of the advanced theoretical and methodological concepts underpinning the discipline.
We stress the acquisition of vocational skills through practical experience using as our 'laboratory' the rich archaeological resource of Orkney, home to some of the world's most renowned archaeological monuments.
Core modules will introduce you to the principles, philosophy and theory of cultural heritage management and immerse you in a suite of practical archaeological techniques including: excavation; non-intrusive field archaeology; digital means of exploring and recording archaeological materials; environmental archaeology; and post-excavation analysis.
There is flexibility to pursue an interest in period-based modules which reflect the research specialisms of the Archaeology Institute staff, or you may choose to focus entirely on our professional skills modules.
Postgraduate Loans (SAAS) (Scotland-domiciled and EU students )
Loans for tuition fees are available from SAAS for eligible Scotland-domiciled and EU students, and loans for living costs for eligible Scottish students.
(see fees/funding tab for more information)
You will also study two of the following optional modules:
To achieve the award of MSc Archaeological Practice you must complete a 60-credit professional placement or dissertation.
Ireland, including Channel Islands and the Isle of Man), studying this course on-campus, the following fees apply:
Students will get an automatic fee scholarship.
For students who do not normally reside in the UK or European Union, studying on-campus, the following fees apply:
There is a significant amount of fieldwork that involves excavation, investigation and curation techniques in one of the world's best archaeological classrooms, the Orkney Islands.
You will be responsible for covering the costs of any travel and accommodation associated in your participation in the field trips.
Once you have successfully completed the MSc Archaeological Practice you might like to consider careers in:
You may wish to consider further study in areas such as:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/bsc-hons-archaeological-science:
Course code F420
Are you interested in archaeology but wish to focus on the scientific elements of this field of study?
If so, the BSc (Hons) Archaeological Science could be perfect for you.
This exciting new degree complements our existing archaeology programmes by exploring the range of science-based methods that form an integral part of archaeological research, from archaeobotany to zooarchaeology.
On this course, you will receive high-quality, research-led teaching from staff engaged in world-class research on projects from various locations.
Through this, you will develop scientific skills and knowledge through a range of science-orientate modules.
You will participate in a range of activities during your degree studies including: taking part in world-renowned archaeological excavations, laboratory-based study, field schools, and actively engaging in research.
You will have the opportunity to gain invaluable workplace experience through participation in our archaeological placement module, which will aid you in developing key real-world skills for life after your degree, whether in postgraduate research, archaeology or another chosen profession.
In choosing to study at UHI, you will experience a vibrant and active learning environment and have the flexibility to study at one or more campuses throughout the region as you progress through your degree.
You will also choose a further two option modules from other humanities or social science degrees.
You will also choose a further two option modules from other humanities or social science degrees.
This course includes several field trips, including residentials and an optional international field trip module to Iceland.
You will be required to pay a contribution towards the cost of the residentials and international trips.
The module option for Iceland trip may also require a visa; it will be your responsibility to research and secure your visa to travel to Iceland if necessary.
Once you have successfully completed your degree, you may consider careers in:
You may progress from the BSc (Hons) Archaeological Science to a range of postgraduate courses offered by the university or to postgraduate research:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/bsc-hons-archaeological-science-with-a-year-in-industry:
Course code F421
Are you fascinated by the past and curious about the science that helps uncover it?
Do you want to dig deeper into archaeology using real scientific tools and techniques?
If you're ready to explore the ancient world through cutting-edge scientific methods and turn your curiosity into expertise, the BSc (Hons) Archaeological Science is designed for you.
This innovative programme builds on our established archaeology courses by diving into the science-based techniques that drive archaeological discovery, from archaeobotany and geoarchaeology to zooarchaeology and beyond.
You’ll receive expert, research-led teaching from staff involved in world-class archaeological projects around the globe.
Through hands-on modules and practical training, you’ll gain a strong foundation in scientific methods and their application in uncovering the past.
Your studies will include participation in major excavations, field schools, and laboratory work.
You'll also enhance your employability through our dedicated archaeological placement module, giving you real-world experience and professional skills that are highly valued in both academic and commercial settings.
Become part of a vibrant academic community, with the flexibility to study at one or more campuses across the region, as you progress through your degree and into your future in archaeology.
*Recommended science subjects (Highers/A levels):
You will also study 3 modules from the following options:
You will also study any 2 of the level 8 modules from the UHI Humanities Scheme.
You will also study 1 module from the following options:
You may have the opportunity to undertake an optional year-long work placement between your BSc and BSc (Hons) years.
We will support you to find a suitable placement, however if a placement is not found, you will have the opportunity to transfer to the standard four year course.
The module option for Iceland trip may also require a visa: it will be your responsibility to research and secure your visa to travel to Iceland if needed.
Financing of your year in industry will depend on individual arrangements with placement hosts, but you will need to cover the cost of travel to and from your placement during this period.
You may wish to progress from BSc (Hons) Archaeological Science (with a year in industry) to the following courses:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/mlitt-archaeological-studies:
Course code V490
This course is unique in its focus on the Highlands and Islands of Scotland.
It offers the opportunity to consider wider archaeological concepts and theoretical issues, utilising world-class sites in Orkney and the North Atlantic region.
The MLitt Archaeological Studies will enable you to engage critically with current themes and debates in archaeological practice, theory and method.
There are a wide range of module options which draw on the research specialisms of the Archaeology Institute staff and these provide you with the flexibility to combine taught modules and dissertation research according to your own research interests.
You can develop chronological specialisms grounded in the archaeology and heritage of the region, for example in Prehistoric Archaeology or in Celtic through to Viking/Norse and Medieval Archaeology.
Or you may choose to combine period-based modules with our professional skills modules to gain a broader knowledge and understanding of the diversity of methods and theory practiced within archaeology.
Postgraduate Loans (SAAS) (Scotland-domiciled and EU students)
Students can access the programme from a range of UHI undergraduate programmes including:
You will also choose one option module listed under the PgDip.
Option modules, from which you must choose three, may include:
To achieve the MLitt award you must complete a research dissertation.
A suite of residential and/or practical modules in excavation and post-excavation approaches is available to those who choose to study on campus.
You will be responsible for covering the costs of any travel and accommodation associated in your participation in the residential modules.
Once you have successfully completed this course you might wish to consider careers in the following areas:
You may wish to consider further study such as:
The Archaeology Institute combines the academic and scholarly prowess of the teaching team, who are based across the Highlands and Islands, with the professional and applied skills of the consultancy field unit, Orkney Research Centre for Archaeology (ORCA).
We are the only Scottish university with an archaeology teaching department to have such a dynamic ‘in-house’ relationship with the archaeology industry.
This ‘real-world’ professional insight means that added value is given to the student experience.
Martin Carruthers,  Archaeology lecturer.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-archaeology:
Course code V400
With world-renowned archaeological heritage sites such as Skara Brae, Maeshowe, the Camster Cairns and Mousa Broch, what better place could there be to study archaeology than in the Highlands and Islands of Scotland?
Our BA (Hons) Archaeology* is closely linked to the distinctive cultural heritage of Scotland, but also places all of that within a much broader global context.
The degree will provide you with a detailed understanding of the practice of archaeology.
You will also develop your own practical skills in archaeology through hands on experience and archaeological placements.
You will receive research-led teaching from lecturers engaged in world-class research on projects from the Scottish Islands, the UK and Ireland, to the Atlantic region and Polynesia.
There is a strong emphasis on developing archaeological skills in a number of areas including: field archaeology (for example, excavation and survey); environmental archaeology (for example, zooarchaeology, archaeobotany and osteoarchaeology), together with digital archaeology, such as photogrammetry; and archaeological illustration.
Dig in deep to discover more….
Please see our FAQ sheet for further information on this course.
Entry to year one:
Advanced entry to year two:
You will also choose three option modules which may include:
You will also choose two option modules which may include: wetland archaeology; and one from our range of humanities subjects
You will also choose:
You will study an additional three modules from the list of options below; availability rotates each year and is dependent on minimum numbers:
Ireland, including Channel Islands and the Isle of Man) and with a term-time address in Scotland studying this course full time, the following fees apply:
Part-time (per 20 credit module) - £1,542
Students will need Student Route visa sponsorship to study on the UK.
Ireland), EU/EEA or Switzerland and international students, without a term-time address in Scotland, ie studying from their home country, the following fees apply:
Once you have completed your BA (Hons) Archaeology degree you might like to consider careers in:
For information about further study options, please see our list of Postgraduate progression routes from Humanities degrees .
We also offer a range of postgraduate research degrees : MRes, MPhil and PhD.
I was taught by an enthusiastic and supportive team of specialists who make students feel valued and cared for.
I have never experienced such a supportive and welcoming learning environment.
I undertook a student placement in Aberdeen to study osteoarchaeology.
It was an amazing opportunity for learning and networking that opened up a lot of new doors for me in the coming years.
My favourite things about UHI are its community, its approachability and its heartfelt dedication to students.
Orkney is an enchanting place, out of this world.
The sea, the ancient landscape, the people are what makes this place unique.
The peace and quiet are some of the best things about living on the islands.
Francesca studied the BA (Hons) Archaeology at UHI Orkney.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-archaeology-with-a-year-in-industry:
Course code V402
Are you ready to study archaeology in a place where history is all around you?
Can you imagine learning on the doorstep of world-renowned sites such as Skara Brae, Maeshowe, the Camster Cairns, and Mousa Broch?
The Highlands and Islands of Scotland offer an extraordinary setting for exploring the past, and our BA (Hons) Archaeology (with a year in industry) puts you at the heart of it.
On this degree, you’ll build a deep understanding of archaeological practices while developing your own hands-on skills through practical training and placements.
While rooted in Scotland’s rich cultural heritage, the course also takes a global perspective, helping you connect local history with broader archaeological themes.
You’ll learn from passionate lecturers who lead cutting-edge research projects across the Scottish Islands, the UK and Ireland, the Atlantic region, and even as far as Polynesia.
As you progress, you’ll gain skills in excavation, field survey, environmental archaeology (including zooarchaeology, archaeobotany and osteoarchaeology), digital tools like photogrammetry, and archaeological illustration.
As you complete your degree, you’ll be equipped not only with strong archaeological knowledge and practical skills but also with the confidence to pursue a wide range of exciting career paths.
Whether you choose to continue into postgraduate research, work with heritage organisations, join commercial archaeology teams, or apply your skills in other fields, this degree will open doors for you.
You’ll graduate ready to make a meaningful impact by uncovering and protecting the stories of the past for future generations.
You may wish to progress from BA (Hons) Archaeology (with a year in industry) to the following courses:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-archaeology-and-criminology:
Course code V40C
Most of our humanities subjects can be studied as joint honours as well as single honours.
Joint honours programmes give you the opportunity to combine two subjects, which complement your interests or career goals.
You will usually concentrate on both subjects equally.
It can be possible to transfer between single and joint honours options, usually during your first or second year, and advice will be available from your personal academic tutor.
This joint degree covers:
You will also choose two archaeology option module, which may include:
You will choose two scheme option modules and one archaeology option module from:
You will choose three further modules in each subject area; options may include:
You will complete a dissertation in archaeology or criminology.
You will also study one option module from your chosen dissertation subject plus three option modules from the other subject.
Archaeology option modules may include:
Criminology option modules may include:
This includes EU/EEA and Swiss nationals without settled status in the UK and EEA and Swiss nationals with pre-settled status who are not self-employed or migrant workers in the UK.
You will be responsible for covering the costs of any travel and accommodation associated in your participation in the field schools.
Once you have completed your degree you might like to consider careers in:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-archaeology-and-literature:
Course code V40L
You will also choose two archaeology option module, which may include:
Plus one literature option module, which may include:
You will choose two archaeology option modules, which may include:
Plus three literature option modules, which may include:
You will choose one archaeology option module, which may include:
You will complete a dissertation in archaeology or literature.
Literature option modules may include:
Francesca studied Archaeology at UHI Orkney.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/cpd-award-archaeology-and-local-studies-scqf-level-7:
Course code V9ALS
Are you fascinated by archaeological sites and landcapes in the Highlands and Islands?
Maybe you're keen to know more about a site in your local area?
Explore key archaeological periods in the Highlands and Islands while learning how to start your own desk-based, archaeological research journey, on our CPD Archaeology and Local Studies (SCQF level 7).
Learn online or on-campus with study options to suit your circumstances.
If you choose to join us on-campus, you'll be based at Cnoc Soilleir in South Uist, Outer Hebrides.
Our campus is rooted in the landscape and culture of South Uist, with bespoke facilities, and only a short walk away from internationally significant archaeological sites.
The Outer Hebrides boasts spectacular archaeological landscapes with well preserved sites, spanning earliest prehistory to the early modern period, from prehistoric ceremonial monuments to well preserved historic agricultural landscapes.
Whether you're looking to explore your interest in your spare time or thinking of developing it further by pursuing a degree with our Archaeology Institute , join our 12-week course to gain the knowledge and resources that will help you figure it out, as you learn more about the archaeology of the Highlands and Islands, and get a taste of what it's like to be a student at UHI.
You will cover the following themes in this module:
You can progress from CPD Archaeology and Local Studies (SCQF Level 7) to the following courses:
You may also be able to progress from CPD Archaeology and Local Studies (SCQF level 7) to the following courses:
For more information, please see our FAQ sheet.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-archaeology-and-sociology:
Course code V40S
PVG scheme membership may be required in order to take part in optional modules in year three.
plus one other option module from across the humanities degrees.
Plus one option module from across the range of humanities degrees.
Sociology option modules may include:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-archaeology-and-theology:
Course code V40T
plus one theology option module, which may include:
Plus two theology option modules, which may include:
plus two theology option modules, which may include:
Theology modules may include:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-archaeology-with-gaelic-studies:
Course code V40G
Core module is:
You will also choose two archaeology option modules, which may include:
Gaelic modules available are:
Gaelic modules may include:
You will complete a dissertation in archaeology or Gaelic.
Gaelic optional modules may include:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnc-architectural-technology:
Course code 732K
This course has been designed to provide an additional access route to degree study in the built environment.
Taught in the same culture and environment as the architectural technology degree, you will become immersed in practical design studio work, with projects allowing you to build a strong portfolio of work to take on to degree level study.
Successful completion of the course will give you direct entry to year two of the degree programme.
UHI Inverness also has a limited number of places on this course for local senior phase pupils to study in their sixth year at school.
Students taking this option can go on to complete the honours degree with us in three years and potentially start earning a graduate salary a year early.
Please click on the following links for information on Technology guidance and System requirements to study this course.
Mandatory units:
Option units include:
*to be confirmed
On successful completion of the HNC, you may wish to consider a career as a:
You can progress to year two of our:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/pgde-ard-sgoil-tro-mheadhan-na-gaidhlig:
Course code X130
Bidh an cùrsa seo gur deasachadh airson dreuchd mar neach-teagaisg àrd-sgoile le sgilean agus eòlas a bheir buaidh air beatha dhaoine òga a bhios sibh a’ teagasg.
Tha an cùrsa air a thabhann an co-bhonn ri Comhairle Earra-ghàidheil is Bhòid, Comhairle nan Eilean Siar, Comhairle na Gàidhealtachd agus Comhairle Pheairt agus Chinn Rois a tha ag obair leis an oilthigh aig na làraich ionadail.
Air cùrsa PGDE (àrd-sgoile), cuiridh oileanaich seachad 18 seachdainean san oilthigh agus 19 seachdainean ann an suidheachadh proifeasanta ann an sgoiltean.
Feumaidh sibh a bhith fileanta ann an Gàidhlig mus tòisich sibh air a’ phrògram seo agus thèid na sgilean cànain agaibh a mheasadh aig agallamh.
Air a’ phrògram seo cuiridh sibh seachad na greisean-sgoile agaibh ann an sgoiltean a tha a’ tabhann Foghlam tro Mheadhan na Gàidhlig (FTMG) far an gabh seo aontachadh le na h-Ùghdarrasan Ionadail.
Tha na cuspairean gu h-ìosal air an tabhann sna colaistean a leanas:  Earra-ghàidheil OGE (An t-Òban), Inbhir Nis OGE, A Tuath, An Iar is Innse Gall OGE (Steòrnabhagh, An Gearasdan),  Pheairt OGE, agus Sabhal Mòr Ostaig OGE (An t-Eilean Sgìtheanach).
Dh’fhaodar cuspairean àrd-sgoile eile a thabhann nam biodh iarrtas ann.
Bidh am prògram uaireannan air a thabhann aig Ceann Loch Gilp (tro  Earra-ghàidheil OGE) agus ann am Barraigh agus Beinn nam Fadhla (tro A Tuath, An Iar is Innse Gall OGE (Steòrnabhagh)).
Thèid co-dhùnadh a dhèanamh air seo gach bliadhna a rèir àireamh thagraidhean anns na sgìrean seo.
*Chan eil e ri fhaighinn ann an Pheairt
Leughaibh an duilleag FAQs airson barrachd fiosrachaidh mun phrògram.
Bu chòir ceum freagarrach aig ìre fo-cheum a bhith aig tagraidhean; thèid prìomhachas a thoirt do thagraidhean aig a bheil ceum le urram ach thèid sùil a thoirt air tagraidhean aig a bheil ceum coitcheann cuideachd AGUS:
Beurla:
Matamataig no Aplaiceadan Matamataig:
Cudromach:
Feumaidh tagraidhean a tha air a bhith a’ fuireach taobh a-muigh na Rìoghachd Aonaichte airson sia mìosan no na b’ fhaide anns na coig bliadhna a dh’fhalbh a dhol fo rannsachadh eucoir anns gach dùthaich san robhar a’ fuireach mus faighear àite air a’ phrògram.
Feumaidh sibh tagradh airson PGDE Àrd-sgoil (Foghlam Gàidhlig) a dhèanamh tro sgeama UCAS san aon dòigh ri prògraman fo-cheum, gun a dhol tro UCAS Trèanadh Thidsearan.
Tha seo fìor don a h-uile oilthigh ann an Alba a bhios a’ tabhann PGDE.
Feumaidh sibh fios a thoirt seachad mun cheum agus mu na teisteanasan agaibh ann am Matamataig agus Beurla anns an tagradh - cha tèid gabhail ris an tagradh as aonais an fhiosrachaidh seo.
Feumaidh teisteanasan a bhith a-staigh air an aon latha ri cinn-latha thagraidhean.
’S e dleastanas an tagraiche a th’ ann dèanamh cinnteach gu bheil fios aig luchd-teisteanais air seo agus gu bheil an tagradh slàn air a chur a-steach ron cheann-là a thèid a chur romhaibh.
Modalan Teagaisg PGDE
Practas Co-oibreachail (20 creideas)
Bheir am modal seo cothrom do dh’oileanaich a bhith ag amas air a bhith nam proifeasantaich mheòrachail, shoirbheachail, fheòrachail a tha comasach a dhol an sàs ann an toinntean foghlaim agus a bhios deiseil airson cur ri leasachaidhean foghlaim san àm ri teachd.
Bheir e cothrom dhaibh tuigse fhaighinn air a’ churraicealam agus na leasachaidhean a thig air agus air cho freagarrach ’s a tha e airson saoghal an latha an-diugh agus airson atharrachaidhean sam bith a thig na chois.
Thèid sgrùdadh a dhèanamh sa mhodal air mar a tha an Curraicealam airson Sàr-mhathais ag amas air ath-dhealbhadh ann am foghlam tro churraicealam a tha nas beartaiche, nas coileanta agus nas sùbailte.
Bidh oileanaich air an deasachadh le sgilean planaidh, teagaisg agus measaidh stèidhichte air a’ churraicealam le fòcas air cuspairean co-cheangailte ri ionnsachadh agus co-oibreachadh taobh a-staigh a’ chlas aca fhèin agus an co-bhonn ri luchd-obrach eile mar phàirt den sgoil air fad.
Feòrachadh agus Practas (20 creideas)
Tha am modal seo ag amas air a bhith a’ cur ionnsachadh chloinne agus dhaoine òga agus mar a dh’ionnsaicheas iad san t-seòmar-teagaisg aig cridhe rannsachadh proifeasanta nan oileanach agus mar a tha seo bunaiteach do phlanadh, teagasg agus measadh.
Tha am modal air a dhlùth-cheangal ri na greisean-sgoile ann an sgoil a tha a’ tabhann FtMG airson barrachd tuigse fhaighinn air foghlam mar rud leantainneach.
Practas Meòrachail (20 creideas)
Bheir am modal seo cothrom ullachaidh do dh’oileanaich a bhith a’ meòrachadh agus a’ breithneachadh air an obair aca fhèin mar phàirt de leasachadh agus de dh’fhèin-mheasadh pearsanta agus proifeasanta leantainneach.
Tha e ag amas air cothroman do dh’oileanaich teagaisg a bhith a’ meòrachadh gu proifeasanta agus a bhith deiseil airson beachdachadh ann an doimhneachd air càileachd ann an ionnsachadh chloinne agus dhaoine òga agus mar a bhios buaidh air na dòighean-obrach aca fhèin air ionnsachadh.
Bheir am modal cuideachd cothrom do dh’oileanaich luach a thoirt air mar a tha tuigse agus leasachadh cànain air am filleadh a-steach gu teagasg agus mar a tha buaidh aca air a chèile.
Practas Proifeasanta (àrd-sgoile) (60 creideas)
Anns a’ mhodal seo, nì oileanaich leasachadh air practas proifeasanta agus fèin-aithne proifeasanta tro 19 seachdainean de ghreisean-sgoile.
Bidh iad seo air an roinn gu nàiseanta tro Student Placement System gus eòlas fhaighinn air
Beag air bheag, bidh aig oileanaich ri farsaingeachd agus dleastanasan a bharrachd a ghabhail os làimh ann an ionnsachadh, teagasg agus measadh anns na sgoiltean aca, gus am bi cothrom aca a bhith os cionn ghnothaichean airson 0.8FTE air a’ ghreis-sgoile mu dheireadh aca.
Cosgaisean a bharrachd:
Students who are resident and studying in Scotland can apply for their fees to be paid by the Student Awards Agency for Scotland (SAAS).
SAAS will determine eligibility.
EU/EEA and Swiss nationals without settled or pre-settled status in the UK.
Students on this course will get an automatic fee scholarship of £3,000.
Dh’fhaodadh sgoilearachdan no taic-airgid eile a bhith ri fhaighinn.
Cuiribh fios gu colaistean compàirteachais an oilthigh airson barrachd fiosrachaidh.
Gheibh cuid de dh’oileanaich bursaraidhean STEM sa bhliadhna acadaimigich 2020/21 - thoir sùil air làrach-lìn an oilthigh airson barrachd fiosrachaidh.
Tha sgeama taic aig Bòrd na Gàidhlig do dh’oileanaich a tha ag amas air teagasg Gàidhlig.
Thèid fios mun seo a thoirt dhuibh ma tha sibh soirbheachail aig agallamh.
Bidh clàradh fo-chùmhnant mar thidsear àrd-sgoile le Comhairle Choitcheann Teagaisg na h-Alba (GTCS) aig luchd-ceumnachaidh.
Bheir seo teisteanas do dh’oileanaich à Alba, às a’ chòrr den Rìoghachd Aonaichte agus à dùthchannan a tha nam ball de dh’Aonadh na h-Eòrpa tagradh a chur a-steach airson sgeama bliadhna tòiseachaidh ann an Alba (TIS).
Bheir seo cothrom an uair sin do thidsearan ùra lan-chlàradh fhaighinn.
Chan eil cead aig oileanaich à dùthchannan taobh a-muigh an Aonaidh a bhith nam ball de sgeama TIS ach thèid aca Slighe Shùbailte a leantainn gus làn-chlàradh fhaighinn, ma tha cead aca fuireach san dùthaich gus seo a dhèanamh.
Faic Teacher Induction Scheme FAQs .
Tha cothrom aig luchd-ceumnachaidh a dhol air adhart gu MEd Critical Enquiry no gu prògram Maighstireachd ann an oilthigh eile san Rìoghachd Aonaichte.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-art-and-contemporary-practices:
Course code W190
Explore your creative identity and engage your imagination, working on collaborative projects, participatory art, community initiatives, digital creation, relational practices, curation, art and education, public art, and more.
Interpret and contextualise theory, creative, and technical skills to produce effective contemporary art that builds engagement between the art world and the wider community.
Set your sights on a successful career, focusing on employment in your chosen field, with opportunities to explore the evolving possibilities for art and creativity within the full context of contemporary art, health, recreation, and education.
Cor modules are::
All modules run in both the first and second semesters.
You will be required to provide your own materials for projects.
This could be in the region of £300 per year.
If there are travel or other expenses incurred on placements, you will also bear the costs for these.
On successful completion you may be able to undertake careers as a practicing artist, in community arts, workshop artist, public art, participatory art, art in health, art in education, participatory art, collaborative practice, and curating.
You may be able to progress from the BA (Hons) Art and Contemporary Practices to master programmes such as Art Psychotherapy, Art and Social Practice, Museum and Heritage Studies, or Teacher Training, or our MA Art and Social Practice.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ma-art-and-social-practice:
Course code W210
Are you committed to a career in an art practice that creatively engages with your community?
If so, the MA Art and Social Practice is ideal.
Artists in the 21st century increasingly find themselves working in participatory settings where skills in creative and social engagement are essential.
This programme addresses these changing needs and facilitates a shift in thinking away from conventional ideas about where art practices are located and how work is disseminated.
The course offers focused provision enabling you to develop an appropriate level of knowledge and research to inform practical work, together with the critical and analytical processes and technical skills required to effectively deliver a project in the public domain.
Banner image : Treelines by Louise Kernaghan.
Socially engaged art project: participant holds out treeline book to make a symbolic treeline Location : Srón Gharbh Photo : Louise Kernaghan
Postgraduate Loans (SAAS) (Scotland-domiciled students)
Loans for tuition fees are available from SAAS for eligible Scotland-domiciled students, and loans for living costs for eligible Scottish students.
Students can access the course from a range of our undergraduate programmes including:
Modules may include:
To achieve the award of MA you must complete the social practice project.
You can study this fully online Masters from any location.
You will be enrolled and receive support from the Centre for Island Creativity, which is part of Shetland UHI.
There is an optional annual residential session, known as Spring School, which offers students a one-week opportunity to meet face to face and participate in local cultural events in different locations throughout the Highlands and Islands.
All associated costs will be the responsibility of the student.
On successful completion of the course, you will be well placed to work freelance, develop your own social enterprise or seek employment in a range of settings such as:
You will also be able to work with a range of individuals and participant groups including:
You will be able to develop, plan and deliver participatory arts projects for local authorities, voluntary sector organisations and other public sector agencies.
You may progress to an MRes or Creative Practice or a PhD to undertake research in the field of art and social practice in its broadest sense.
The program is very adaptable to student interests and needs.
In my own set of circumstances, I was working to build a new identity as an artist, while simultaneously grappling with big themes that I wanted to explore through artistic means.
The program allowed me to integrate multiple strands of inquiry and left me with a sense of clarity about my purpose and future directions.
The course connected students to practising artists who shared their ideas and experiences.
I had access to articles and books from artists and thinkers who helped me contextualize my own observations and experiences.
I really enjoyed interacting with my fellow students and seeing their artistic work.
I also appreciated the depth and breadth of the teaching staff’s experience.
Lecturers were very responsive to feedback and worked to support student needs.
I would describe studying the MA Art and Social Practice as life-changing.
Patricia MacAulay studied the MA Art and Social Practice at UHI Shetland.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/bsc-hons-audio-engineering:
Course code H642
Unleash your creative potential on Scotland's oldest audio engineering course - where sound meets innovation!
With a rich history spanning decades, we offer a unique opportunity to step into the world of audio excellence and dive deep into music production, game audio, sound design, and live sound, all under the guidance of industry veterans in our state-of-the-art recording studios.
Whether you aspire to produce music, design captivating audio for games, or engineer unforgettable live performances, our course will provide the foundation you need to succeed in the dynamic world of audio.
Our diverse and comprehensive curriculum is designed to equip you with the skills you need to excel in various audio fields:
Our state-of-the-art recording studios are equipped with the latest technology and vintage gear, which provide the perfect setting for hands-on learning.
Experience the thrill of recording live bands, crafting intricate soundscapes, and producing high-quality audio, while honing your technical skills.
Learn from our team of seasoned experts who bring a wealth of industry experience and passion for sound.
Our tutors have worked on notable projects and are dedicated to sharing their insights, techniques, and real-world knowledge.
They provide personalised mentorship to help you refine your skills and discover your creative voice.
Take the first step in your audio journey with us and benefit from our legacy of excellence and collaborative community, as you join a course with a storied history that has nurtured the talents of countless audio professionals, enabling you to immerse yourself in a vibrant community of like-minded individuals who share your passion for sound and creativity.
Year 1 of this course is HNC Sound Production .
Core modules are:​
If you choose the research paper rather than a dissertation, you will choose one further option module which may include:
You will learn through a combination of face-to-face lectures, tutorials and studio work, and online study via the university's virtual learning environment (VLE), with support from your tutors.
For students living in the rest of the UK (England, Wales and N.
Ireland, including Channel Islands and the Isle of Man), with a term-time address in Scotland, the following fees apply:
Students will get an automatic scholarship for 2nd and 3rd year, with the 4th year of study free for those studying full-time, on continuous study, who have paid for the previous three years at the University of the Highlands and Islands.
A no fee increase guarantee is available for self-funding full-time and structured part-time rest of the UK, EU and international undergraduate students for continuous study for the same award, up to the permitted standard time limit for the relevant award, including where students are following a recognised ‘top-up’ degree structure where the first year is made up of an HNC award.
Once you have completed the BSc (Hons) Audio Engineering course, a range of jobs in sound production within the music and entertainment industry will be open to you.
These could include:
I didn’t consider anywhere else- I'd heard that UHI was one of the best places to study music.
My lecturers were all extremely supportive, and my placements on the course were amazing- they developed my skills and opened my eyes to all of the opportunities in the music industry.
The campus is an excellent place to study music- there are lots of rehearsal spaces and the recording studios and production room are great.
I really enjoyed going to the café on campus for study breaks as well!
I’ve had a great experience studying at UHI.
I’ve made great friends, have had so much fun and feel well prepared for a career in the music industry.
Kirsty studied the BA (Hons) Popular Music at UHI Perth.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnc-beauty-therapy:
Course code 113B
HNC Beauty Therapy aims at developing the underpinning knowledge, research, and skills to work in the beauty industry.
This is a 1-year High level course, for those starting their journey in the beauty industry (with the relevant qualifications) or progressing from an appropriate SCQF Level 6 in Beauty Therapy.
You will be taught by industry professionals with a wide range of industrial experience who will provide you with the training required to develop a career in the beauty industry and impart essential knowledge to equip you for employment.
The qualification develops skills in a realistic working environment using contemporary salon equipment and will develop a proficiency in an array of salon treatments.
You will practice on each other prior to completing assessments on external clients, which you will be expected to provide.
We encourage professionalism in salon appearance and enhance client skills, ensuring you are employable for beauty salons, spas, cruise liners or wish to pursue a career as a self-employed therapist.
Optional subjects may include:
Option units available may vary depending on study location, for more information contact your chosen campus
You will be expected to cover costs for uniform and kit (approximately £180-£205).
On successful completion you will have the skills needed to work in beauty therapy in salons, hotels, cruise ships and other venues.
You may wish to progress to HND Beauty Therapy or year two of our BSc (Hons) Integrative Healthcare .

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnd-beauty-therapy:
Course code 013B
The HND Beauty Therapy is a two-year course developing the knowledge, research, and skills that will underpin your work in the beauty industry.
The setting develops your skills in a realistic working environment, using contemporary salon equipment, and will develop proficiency in an array of salon treatments.
You will practice on each other prior to completing assessments on external clients, who you will be expected to source and book in for assessment sessions.
You will be taught by industry professionals with a wide range of industry experience, who will impart essential knowledge to equip you for employment.
We encourage and develop your professionalism in appearance and client skills, ensuring you are employable for beauty salons, spas, cruise liners or in a career as a self-employed therapist.
For entry to year 1, HNC Beauty Therapy :
Year 1 of the course is HNC Beauty Therapy .
Mandatory units may also include:
On completion of your HND Beauty Therapy you might want to find work in salons, hotels, cruise ships or self-employment.
You may wish to progress into year three of our BSc (Hons) Integrative Healthcare .

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnc-bioscience:
Course code 009C
Begin your journey into the highly varied and interesting field of bioscience with our comprehensive introduction to the theoretical and practical aspects of modern sciences.
Explore a wide range of topics such as ecology, environmental issues, and the core sciences, develop your lab skills, improve your research and writing abilities, and brush up on your basic maths and statistics so that you are confidently capable of undertaking scientific analysis of experimental and field data.
Learn a broad range of sciences, such as chemistry, biology, physics, and environmental disciplines, developing your scientific theoretical knowledge, communication, and presentation skills throughout your studies.
Take the opportunity to conduct specialised research during the graded unit, selecting a topic that will hone your scientific knowledge in your chosen field for progression, and gain valuable insight, understanding, and appreciation of the innovations and responses to the challenges and issues currently faced by the industry, via potential opportunities for site visits to local industry employers.
Best of all, be prepared to spend plenty of hands-on time in the lab, conducting experiments and processing your results, with extensive training in essential practical skills that are relevant to local and national employers.
Acquire detailed knowledge of health and safety systems and good lab practices in practical sessions, developing highly transferrable skills of experimentation, analysis, and reporting, all of which will stand you in great stead throughout your career and in any further studies.
The HNC Bioscience will prepare you for further study in many science disciplines in Biology, Environmental Science, Chemistry, and Physics, such as:
On successful completion of this course, you may be able to progress onto the first or second year of the following degree programmes:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/pda-book-keeping-scqf-level-7:
Course code 93N4
This professional development award delivers the essential skills and knowledge for a career in book-keeping or working in an accounting or financial administration role.
The PDA courses are quick and cost effective to deliver, so are ideal for developing the skills of young people, graduates, and other adult learners.
They are also ideal for Continuing Professional Development (CPD) so employers can enhance the skills of their employees.
External scholarships and financial support , such as an Individual Training Account , may be available.
Please contact the relevant UHI partner for more information.
This PDA Book-keeping will prepare you for employment within the accounting and business services sector.
You may wish to pursue positions such as:
Upon completion of this course, you may progress onto our HNC Accounting .

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/pda-bricklaying:
Course code 94K2
The PDA in Bricklaying provides further development of competences which you will already have achieved through the SVQ programme.
It gives invaluable practical experience and knowledge should you aspire to other professions in construction outside the role of a developed craftsperson, such as supervision and management.
Completion of your PDA will also give you the opportunity to progress to an HNC which will further develop your hand skills and more specialised and traditional craft skills.
On completion of this course you may seek employment within the Construction Industry.
Further study may include HNC Construction Management .

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/cpd-award-building-resilience-understanding-the-impact-of-aces-scqf-level-11:
Course code B993
This CPD award, Building Resilience: Understanding the Impact of ACES, will interest any person working (or wishing to work) with children and young people in a professional capacity.
Scotland is actively engaging with the recommendations of the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child.
This module will provide key insights into these recommendations, allowing you to analyse the policies, frameworks and legislation that protect children’s rights in Scotland.
The module will focus on how Adverse Childhood Experiences (ACEs), such as poverty, child abuse or substance misuse, can affect a child or young person’s life chances and development, and the potential impact ACEs can have on future behaviour, relationships and employment opportunities.
You will explore the relationship between physical health, mental health and self-esteem, while evaluating different initiatives that promote resilience through health and wellbeing.
Through critical analysis and reflection, you will examine the term ‘professional practice’ and consider how supporting best practice can positively influence life chances.
A number of potential areas for action have been suggested to help prevent and reduce the impact of ACEs, including: increasing awareness and understanding; primary prevention (through policy and strategic development); secondary prevention (increasing resilience in children and young people to reduce the impact of ACEs); and tertiary prevention (supporting those affected to prevent generational transition).
All of these areas require the involvement of a wide range of professionals to ensure that they have the knowledge and skills to identify, support, help to prevent, and reduce, the impact of ACEs.
This module will provide that knowledge, appealing to professionals from fields such as:
Professional workforce with prior experience:
2024-25
This course is not available for international students requiring Student Route visa sponsorship to study in the UK.
You may wish to progress from this module to the following course:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/pgde-bun-sgoil-tro-mheadhan-na-gaidhlig:
Course code X103
Bidh an cùrsa seo gur deasachadh airson dreuchd mar neach-teagaisg bun-sgoile le sgilean agus eòlas a bheir buaidh air beatha dhaoine òga a bhios sibh a’ teagasg.
Air cùrsa PGDE (bun-sgoile), cuiridh oileanaich seachad 18 seachdainean san oilthigh agus 19 seachdainean ann an suidheachadh proifeasanta ann an sgoiltean.
Tha na greisean-sgoile ann an sgoiltean air an rèiteach gu nàiseanta agus thèid ur cur gu sgoiltean a tha reusanta faisg air ur seòladh dachaigh no ur seòladh teirm.
Feumaidh sibh a bhith fileanta ann an Gàidhlig mus tòisich sibh air a’ phrògram agus thèid na sgilean cànain agaibh a mheasadh aig agallamh.
Bidh eileamaidean den chùrsa air an lìbhrigeadh tro mheadhan na Gàidhlig agus  cuiridh sibh seachad a’ chuid as motha de na greisean-sgoile agaibh ann an sgoiltean a tha a’ tabhann Foghlam tro Mheadhan na Gàidhlig (FTMG).
Tha PGDE (Bun-sgoile - Slighe Ghàidhlig) air a tabhann ann an co-bhonn ri Comhairle Earra-ghàidheil is Bhòid, Comhairle nan Eilean Siar, Comhairle na Gàidhealtachd agus Comhairle Pheairt agus Chinn Rois, a tha ag obair ann an co-bhonn ris an oilthigh tro na colaistean ionadail a leanas:
Feumaidh seòladh dachaigh no seòladh teirm a bhith agaibh ann an sgìre an Ùghdarrais a thaghas sibh mar làrach.
Gheibh ceumnaichean a’ chùrsa clàradh inntrigidh mar neach-teagaisg bun-sgoile le Comhairle Choitcheann Luchd-teagaisg na h-Alba  (GTCS).
Bidh sibh ag obair ann am buidhnean beaga ionadail fhad ’s a tha sibh ag obair ann an co-bhonn ri oileanaich teagaisg agus luchd-oideachaidh air feadh lìonra cholaistean an oilthigh.
Tha am prògram air a lìbhrigeadh ann an co-bhonn ri PGDE Bun-sgoile (tro mheadhan na Beurla) agus ri PGDE (àrd-sgoile) airson sealladh nas fharsainge de theagasg a thoirt dhuibh.
Tha cùrsa còmhnaidh inntrigidh air a chumail aig fìor thoiseach a’ chùrsa le fear eile sa Mhàrt a bhios ag amas gu h-àraid air ionnsachadh a-muigh.
Bidh gach buidheann ionadail cuideachd a’ cur air dòigh taisbeanadh sònraichte aig deireadh a’ chùrsa mar phàirt de leasachaidhean ceannais.
A bharrachd air seo, feumaidh na leanas a bhith aig tagraichean:
Matamataig no Aplaiceadan Matamataig
Tha sinn ag aithneachadh, leis mar a tha cùisean an-dràsta, gum bi e doirbh dhuibh obair no obair shaor-thoileach fhaighinn còmhla ri clann aig ìre bun-sgoile.
Bu chòir dhan fhiosrachadh phearsanta agaibh agus ur teisteanas a bhith a’ mìneachadh gu soilleir mar a tha  sibh air ullachadh a dhèanamh agus carson a tha sibh air tagradh a dhèanamh airson teagasg bun-sgoile ann am foghlam Gàidhlig.
Mar as trice thèid tachartasan taghaidh a chumail cha mhòr aig deireadh a’ Ghearrain no tràth sa Mhàrt.
Nota:
Feumaidh tagraidhean airson PGDE ann an Teagasg Bun-sgoile a dhol a-steach tro UCAS san aon dòigh ri prògraman fo-cheuma.
Cha bu chòir dhaibh a bhith air an dèanamh tro Trèanadh Luchd-teagaisg UCAS.
Tha seo fìor do gach oilthigh/colaiste ann an Alba a tha a’ tabhann PGDE.
Feumaidh sibh fiosrachadh a thoirt seachad mun cheum agus mu theisteanasan ann am Beurla agus Matamataig an cois an tagraidh.
Mura dèan sibh seo, cha tèid againn air sùil a thoirt air an tagradh.
Feumaidh teisteanasan a bhith a-staigh ro cheann-latha thagraidhean.
Tha e mar dhleastanas aig an tagraiche a bhith cinnteach gu bheil luchd-teisteanais mothachail air a’ cheann-latha seo agus gu bheil an tagradh agus an teisteanas againn ron cheann-latha a chaidh a chur romhaibh.
Practas proifeasanta (Bun-sgoile) (60 creideas)
Sa mhodal seo, nì oileanaich leasachadh air na modhan-teagaisg agus air a’ phroifeasantachd aca fhèin mar luchd-teagaisg ann an ceithir greisean sgoile ann an trì sgoiltean fa-leth.
Tha iad seo air an tabhann gu nàiseanta tro shiostam greis-sgoile nan oileanach (Student Placement System) airson cothrom a thoirt do dh’oileanaich a dhol an sàs ann an diofar ìrean den Churraicealam airson Sàr-mhathais:
Mean air mhean, bidh barrachd meud agus farsaingeachd ann an  dleastanasan ionnsachaidh, teagaisg agus measaidh nan oileanach anns na clasaichean aca gus an ruig iad ìre far am bi iad a’ stiùireadh ghnothaichean san t-seòmar-teagaisg airson 10 làithean anns na 6 seachdainean mu dheireadh aca ann an sgoiltean.
Bidh clàradh fo-chùmhnant mar thidsear bun-sgoile le Comhairle Choitcheann Teagaisg na h-Alba (GTCS) aig luchd-ceumnachaidh.
Bheir an sgeama seo an uair sin cothrom do thidsearan ùra lan-chlàradh fhaighinn.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnc-business:
Course code 001N
The HNC Business will give you an excellent introduction to a wide range of business and management skills.
You will gain a range of knowledge and understanding that is highly sought-after by employers, including: business fundamentals; marketing; economics; emerging technologies; IT; communication; accounting and management.
The diverse nature of the course will ensure that you are equipped with the knowledge to start your own business, undertake a variety of business-related job roles or progress onto further studies.
*the modes of study available vary depending on which UHI Campus you are applying to study with.
At UHI Inverness you will study one 1st year degree module:
This is in place of two optional SQA credits - for more information, please contact UHI Inverness
Additional units available may vary depending on study location, for more information contact your chosen campus .
*If you wish to apply for the day release learning option at UHI Inverness, please choose the part-time apply option and mention this in your personal statement when completing our online application form
On completion of your course you will be qualified to take up a variety of posts in administration, business and management, or self-employment.
On successful completion of HNC Business with all 15 credits, you may be able to progress onto year two of HND Business or year two of the BA (Hons) Business and Management .
I decided to study at UHI to stay at home and avoid getting into debt!
A business course is so versatile and offers insights into how organisations operate, which is valuable in any industry.
I was drawn to the idea of learning about different aspects like marketing, finance, and operations, as I believed this knowledge would give me a solid foundation for any career I might choose.
I think the style of teaching was really effective, a good balance between face-to-face lectures and independent studying.
The lectures allowed for direct interaction with lecturers, which I found really helpful for clarifying concepts and engaging in discussions.
From start to finish everyone I encountered at UHI was incredibly encouraging and supportive.
The best thing about living in Inverness is the stunning natural beauty that surrounds the city.
Being close to Loch Ness and the Highlands offers incredible opportunities for outdoor activities like hiking, cycling, and exploring picturesque landscapes.
Anna studied Business at UHI Inverness.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnd-business:
Course code 101N
The HND Business will give you an excellent introduction to a wide range of business and management skills.
You will gain a range of knowledge and understanding that is highly sought-after by employers, including: business fundamentals; marketing; economics; HRM; emergent technologies; IT; management; communication; law; accounting; project planning; and research skills.
For entry to year 1, HNC Business :
Year 1 of this course is HNC Business .
Option units available may vary depending on study location, for more information contact your chosen campus.
The semester(s) when units run will vary depending on your chosen campus .
I decided to study at UHI so I could learn locally and the organisation, patience and communication from my lecturers was brilliant!
All of the teaching staff work so hard, and they are always so friendly and willing to help.
I love how flexible UHI is, and I always found UHI MyDay and Brightspace so useful.
During my studies, I had a placement with a events and marketing agency, and helped coordinate two large events- Halloween Event at Brodie Castle and the Inverness KnitFest.
Helping at these events gave me a much better understanding of how to prepare and put on a large event, and also gave me the chance to network and grow my confidence.
I spotted the job I am doing now on MyDay, and applied straight away!
I am now an Information Systems Graduate in the third sector.
Having studied at UHI was a great advantage, I was so fortunate being able to walk straight into such a flexible and varied job which was so relevant to my studies.
The best thing about living here is that we have the best of both worlds, being in a city- but also so close to amazing walks, hills, beaches and gorgeous scenery.
Lauren studied Business at UHI Inverness.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/mba-business-administration-aviation:
Course code N2AV
Are you an experienced professional looking to progress to higher leadership and management roles?
The MBA Business Administration (Aviation) is part of a brand new suite of MBAs, designed to provide leadership and management skills across the areas of Aviation, Environment, Executive and Resilience.
The University of the Highlands and Islands MBA suite has been developed using insight from employers on skills necessary for executives operating in a challenging global environment, an environment where striving for growth and opportunity is based on ethical behaviour, appreciation of diversity and ability to adapt to the demands of a fast-changing world.
The programme will develop your theoretical knowledge, practical wisdom, strategic managerial and personal skills essential for successful career enhancement in organisations with a global outlook.
Our MBA programmes aim to provide you with the comprehensive knowledge, skillset and understanding required to enable you to become a senior manager or to enhance career progression to a higher level.
The programme is distinguished by its emphasis on ethical and responsible leadership and management, with a focus on developing executive excellence for the global future.
Embracing innovation, entrepreneurship and technology, our MBA suite builds on 4 underlying pillars and key values:
UHI are proud to provide this course to students at our partner organisation, the University of Akureyri in Iceland.
You will study 5 core modules:
You will also study 2 option modules from the following:
The following fees apply to this taught postgraduate course:
Online study (all students)
On campus study
For students normally domiciled in Scotland studying this course on-campus the following fee applies:
Rest of UK student
Ireland, including Channel Islands and the Isle of Man) and studying this course on-campus, the following fees apply:
For students who do not normally reside in the UK or otherwise assessed as international for fee purposes, studying this course in-campus, the following fee applies:
Online study is open to students anywhere in the world.
International students on-campus will require Student Route visa sponsorship.
A no fee increase guarantee is available for self-funding full-time and structured students for continuous study for this award, up to the permitted standard time limit for the relevant award.
The MBA Business Administration (Aviation) is a bespoke course, tailored to your individual needs.
It will equip you with critical skills and analytic competencies enabling you to continue with your chosen professional or academic developments.
The MBA Business Administration (Aviation) provides excellent preparation and training for further advanced study in many areas of research.
As such, you may wish to pursue a PhD or professional Doctorate studies within your chosen field.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/mba-business-administration-environment:
Course code N2EN
The MBA Business Administration (Environment) is part of a brand new suite of MBAs, designed to provide leadership and management skills across the areas of Aviation, Environment, Executive and Resilience.
You will study 5 core modules:
The MBA Business Administration (Environment) is a bespoke course, tailored to your individual needs.
The MBA Business Administration (Environment) provides excellent preparation and training for further advanced study in many areas of research.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/mba-business-administration-executive:
Course code N2EX
The MBA Business Administration (Executive) is part of a brand new suite of MBAs, designed to provide leadership and management skills across the areas of Aviation, Environment, Executive and Resilience.
The MBA Business Administration (Executive) is a bespoke course, tailored to your individual needs.
The MBA Business Administration (Executive) provides excellent preparation and training for further advanced study in many areas of research.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/mba-business-administration-renewable-energy:
Course code N2RE
The MBA Business Administration (Renewable Energy) is part of a suite of MBAs, designed to provide leadership and management skills across the areas of Aviation, Environment, Executive, Renewable Energy and Resilience.
You will also study optional modules which may include:
Once you have successfully completed this course, you might like to consider careers in management within the renewable energy sector.
The MBA Business Administration (Renewable Energy) provides excellent preparation and training for further advanced study in many areas of research.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/mba-business-administration-resilience:
Course code N2RS
The MBA Business Administration (Resilience) is part of a brand new suite of MBAs, designed to provide leadership and management skills across the areas of Aviation, Environment, Executive and Resilience.
Embracing innovation, entrepreneurship and technology, our MBA suite builds on 4 underlying pillars and key values:
You will study 4 core modules:
Please note: to access this course and achieve the full award of MBA, you must have successfully completed our PGCert Resilience Leadership and Management prior to entry.
Students who have not yet undertaken the PgCert Resilience Leadership and Management should allow for an additional 18 months to 3 years of study prior to commencing the MBA Resilience.
The MBA Business Administration (Resilience) is a bespoke course, tailored to your individual needs.
The MBA Business Administration (Resilience) provides excellent preparation and training for further advanced study in many areas of research.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/svq-business-and-administration-scqf-level-8:
Course code 92N2
If you are working in a business environment at a supervisory level and would like to develop your team-working and problem-solving skills to progress your career, then the SVQ 4 Business and Administration will help you achieve this.
The course is an exciting way to gain a high-level qualification while working and developing work-based knowledge and skills at a supervisory or management level.
The core modules are:
You will also choose from a wide range of option modules in areas including:
Funding can be available for candidates aged 16-19 who are in full-time employment from Skills Development Scotland.
Further information on application.
You may be eligible for an ITA Scotland (Individual Training Account), which can help cover this cost.
Please visit Skills Development Scotland for more information and apply as soon as possible to ensure your ITA Scotland funding is through in time to start the course.
Contact the relevant university partner college for more information.
Successful completion of this course will help you to progress your career in administrative, business or management-related areas.
Once you have successfully completed the course, you may consider studying Management at SCQF Level 9.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/pda-business-and-finance-scqf-level-7:
Course code 204N
Do you have ambitions for a successful career in business or finance?
Are there areas of knowledge and skills that you need to develop to prepare yourself or progress to a higher level of study?
Study our PDA in Business and Finance (SCQF level 7) and develop a broad range of transferable core skills, at a level sought after by employers.
Let us support you in your career aspirations and gain the experience and qualifications needed to progress to further studies in courses such as HNC Business or HNC Accounting.
This course may be eligible for an Orkney Islands Council Small Business Training Grant award, please contact the Business Gateway on 01856 898 749 to discuss this further.
The course fees for this PDA are £520.
You may wish to progress from the PDA in Business and Finance to the following courses:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-business-and-management:
Course code NN21
This programme is a high-quality, broad-based qualification which provides the fundamental knowledge and skills required for the contemporary business environment.
In this ambiguous global economy, this programme will enable students to not only consider business holistically but also undertake complex problem solving: comprehending the interconnectedness of decision making and effectively communicating those decisions to a wide range of internal and external stakeholders.
In years one and two, a programme of core modules is followed to ensure that a solid foundation is laid down.
In years three and four you can choose to study for a generic degree in business and management, or you can focus on one particular aspect, such as: human resource management; finance; marketing; enterprise; or tourism.
This will allow you to exit at the end of the fourth year with a themed award, for example, Business Management with Human Resource Management.
Advanced entry to year 2
Advanced entry to year 3
or
All students are required to take the research skills module.
In addition, depending on which pathway you have chosen, there will be a number of core and option modules from the following list:
All students will be required to complete a dissertation, or research and plan a new business venture (generic degree and enterprise stream).
In addition, depending on which pathway you have chosen, there will be a number of core and option modules from the following list:
The structure of this course varies according to location:
Once you have successfully completed your business and management degree, you might like to consider careers in the following areas:
You may be able to progress from the BA (Hons) Business and Management to:
The course is enjoyable it presents diverse ideas and opportunities I love it.
It is all I have ever wanted to do.
The lecturers are amazing!
They are so enthusiastic passionate and committed to their work they make the course so interesting.
UHI is the place to make your dreams come true.
From the diverse range of courses; clubs and societies; friendly lecturers and staff; to a well-equipped library.
The campus is very welcoming, diverse and inclusive.
If UHI ever crosses your mind, never doubt it.
Winnie studied the BA (Hons) Business and Management with Human Resource Management at UHI Perth.
Lauren studied the HNC Events Management before progressing onto the Business and Management BA (Hons) at UHI Inverness.
Anna studied BA (Hons) Business and Management at UHI Inverness.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-business-management-graduate-apprenticeship:
Course code N102
Do you want to unlock your management potential and develop your business skills while earning a wage?
Are you an employer looking for a staff training opportunity that combines an industry-relevant qualification with on-the-job training?
Look no further than our unique new Graduate Apprenticeship in BA (Hons) Business Management.
Blend higher education and vocational learning to study this exciting degree with a difference, all without leaving the workplace.
Explore the world of business professionals, get to grips with the rapid changes taking place, and develop an understanding of the new demands on business today.
At a time when competition has never been more intense, clients are more demanding, and technology offers new ways of working, develop the knowledge, skills, and new ways of learning that the current environment demands on this specially designed and developed course.
Ideal if you're working in a business and administration role in the public, private, or third sector, and want to enhance your knowledge and professional practice.
Number of hours per week indicates the total number of hours you should dedicate to the course, which includes your time spent in work and in lectures, as well as your own time spent on individual study and research.
The course fees will be funded by SAAS, for more information please refer to this graduate apprenticeship guide .
Once you have successfully completed this course, you can continue to build your career and will be eligible to apply for CMI membership.
You may wish to progress from the Business Management Graduate Apprenticeship to the following courses:
Anna Fraser studied Business at UHI Inverness.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/svq-care-services-leadership-and-management-scqf-level-10:
Course code 94L5
Care Services Leadership and Management SVQ4 is a requirement with the Scottish Social Services Council (SSSC) for all managers, operation managers, deputy managers, supervisors of care services, and new business residential care supervisors and deputies.
The course provides a good basis for managing a care service and supports individuals to undertake management responsibility.
The course is work-based, so you can continue working whilst undertaking your studies.
You will study multiple units, including the following 4 core units:
SAAS can pay up to 75% of fees, with you or your employer responsible for paying the balance.
There are optional additional units of 30 credits which SAAS may also be available for.
You will be qualified to work as a manager or deputy manager within the care services sector.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/pda-carpentry-and-joinery:
Course code 93K2
The PDA in Carpentry and Joinery provides invaluable practical experience and knowledge to those who aspire to other professions in Construction outside the role of a developed craftsperson, such as supervision and management.
On successful completion of the PDA Carpentry and Joinery you will be in the position to develop your career in the construction industry.
Further study options may include HNC Construction Management .

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/cmi-extended-diploma-chartered-management-institute-management-and-leadership-scqf-level-8:
Course code 21N2
The Chartered Management Institute Management and Leadership qualifications were developed to support the needs of middle managers and those aspiring to senior management.
These SCQF level 8 qualifications are designed for practising middle managers who wish to develop their core management skills and practices.
You will have the opportunity to focus on your own management capabilities and competencies.
The Management and Leadership qualifications are all available on a part-time flexible basis.
The SCQF level 8 Award lets you strengthen and develop your knowledge of middle management by focusing on specific management areas that are applicable to your job.
You can tailor content of this course, and topics may include:
A more extensive qualification, the level 8 Certificate gives you a broader knowledge of middle management skills while focusing on the specific leadership areas appropriate to you and your workplace.
Topics may include:
With a more comprehensive structure, the level 8 Diploma gives you the key skills and competencies you will need to become an effective middle manager.
A Diploma in Management and Leadership is the benchmark qualification for full CMI membership, taking you another step towards Chartered Manager status.
Information below gives an indication of length of study, however we will build a study plan with you to meet your own needs.
Fees are currently under review.
You may be eligible for a part-time grant fee of £500 from SAAS or £200 from ILA.
More details on these funding options .
You may also want to contact your employer or local authority for possible funding options.
The Award, Certificate and Diploma in Management and Leadership are widely-recognised professional management qualifications and may lead to opportunities within any sector.
There are opportunities to progress within this level from Award to Certificate to Diploma.
Additionally, students may complete a bridging unit and progress to the Chartered Management Institute Strategic Management and Leadership (SCQF level 11) .

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/cmi-extended-diploma-chartered-management-institute-strategic-management-and-leadership-scqf-level-11:
Course code 21N3
Developed to support the needs of senior managers, this SCQF level 11 qualification in Strategic Management and Leadership gives you the opportunity to focus on implementing your organisation’s strategy.
This qualification is designed for directors and senior managers who have the authority and personal inspiration to translate organisational strategy into effective performance and to focus on the requirements of their inter-organisational strategy.
The Strategic Management and Leadership qualifications are available on a part-time and flexible basis.
The level 11 Award will build on the managerial skills and knowledge you already have and the various roles and responsibilities involved in strategic management.
You can tailor content of this course and topics may include:
The Award is typically 1 unit of study with a minimum credit value of 6 credits.
A more extensive qualification, the level 11 Certificate gives you a broader knowledge of effective management skills while focusing on the specific management areas appropriate to you and your workplace.
The Certificate is typically 2 or 3 units of study with a minimum credit value of 13 credits.
With a comprehensive structure, our level 11 Diploma gives you all the key skills and competencies you will need to become an effective strategic manager.
Subjects may include:
The Diploma is typically 5 or 6 units of study with a minimum credit value of 39 credits.
To achieve the award of Extended Diploma you must successfully complete 8 or 9 units of study with a minimum credit value of 66 credits.
Information below gives an indication of length of study, however we will build a study plan with you to meet your own needs.
The Award, Certificate and Diploma are widely-recognised professional management qualifications and may lead to opportunities within any sector.
There are opportunities to progress within this level from Award to Certificate to Diploma, it may be possible to use the qualification as entry to one of our Masters in Business Administration.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/cpd-award-child-and-adolescent-mental-health-scqf-level-10:
Course code B99C
This Child and Adolescent Mental Health (SCQF level 10) module is aimed at those working with children in education, health, social care and the voluntary sectors.
You will examine the concept of health and wellbeing in relation to mental health in children and adolescents and explore key policy documents like Getting it Right for Every Child (GIRFEC).
You will gain an awareness of child and adolescent mental health services, their differences across the UK, the importance of progress, participation and partnerships, and an overview of specific mental health disorders.
You will explore topics such as:
You may wish to purchase the core textbook for use at work too.
You may wish to progress from Child and Adolescent Mental Health (SCQF level 10) CPD Award to MA Health and Wellbeing .
The structure of the course and the collaboration with others has been really enjoyable, I now have a wide range of new books and articles to explore!
This is by far the best online learning environment I’ve been involved in, I’m so grateful that it’s available to those of us looking to increase our knowledge and understanding of this topic.
Neil studied the CPD Award Child and Adolescent Mental Health (SCQF level 10) with the support of staff at UHI North, West and Hebrides.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-child-and-youth-studies:
Course code L530
Could you teach valuable life skills through play?
Are you passionate about the rights and perspectives of children and young people on all of the matters that affect them?
Harness your energy and enthusiasm for children and young people as they navigate their experiences, on our pioneering programme, the first to combine child and youth studies in Scotland, to pursue an exciting and rewarding career in this diverse and vital field.
Gain a deep understanding of child and youth issues within a local and global context.
Learn about the social, psychological, environmental and legislative influences upon children and young people to make a difference to their lives, opportunities and futures.
Explore and reflect on key theories, policy and practice, to take a holistic, contextual approach that values difference and diversity within individuals, families, and communities to progress children and young people’s meaningful participation and human rights.
Advanced entry to year two of the degree:
Option modules include:
Successful completion of the BA (Hons) Child and Youth Studies provides the opportunity to pursue postgraduate careers in areas such as:
You can progress from the BA (Hons) Child and Youth Studies to the following postgraduate courses:
I loved the journey that I shared with the friends I made from day one.
That network of support continued all the way through my degree and was backed up by the lecturers and my personal tutor who have continued to be so supportive on my journey to becoming a nursery manager.
Katie studied the BA Child and Youth Studies at UHI Perth.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-child-and-youth-studies-with-community-learning-and-development:
Course code L531
Are you passionate about challenging discrimination and disadvantage?
Do you have a strong desire to give a voice to communities and the individuals living in them?
Put social justice and a commitment to social change at the heart of your studies on our pioneering new course, the first accredited programme in the Highlands and Islands to provide registration with the CLD Standards Council Scotland, and pursue an exciting and rewarding career in community learning and development.
If you're interested in working with young people, adults, and communities, this is the ideal course for you.
Explore and reflect on key theories, policy, and practice, as you develop your understanding of the values, differences, and diversity within individuals and communities, to enable their participation, empowerment, and life-long learning.
Build your experience and skills via work placements with community organisations in your local area, as you deepen your understanding and professional practice with theory, current policy, and legislation.
Number of hours per week indicates the total number of hours you should dedicate to the course, which includes time spent in tutor-supported learning and your own time spent on individual study and research.
Upon completing this degree you will receive accreditation from the Community Learning and Development Standards Council for Scotland (CLDSCS) and equivalent bodies in the rest of the UK.
As a practitioner or manager within community learning and development, you will find employment opportunities within the community, voluntary and statutory sectors, across urban, rural and international settings.
Career pathways include:
You may wish to progress from this BA (Hons) Child and Youth Studies with Community Learning and Development to the following courses:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-childhood-practice:
Course code X310
This fully-online honours degree offers practitioners in a wide range of childhood practice settings the opportunity to gain the Scottish Social Services Council (SSSC ) recognised qualification to be a lead practitioner.
You will have the opportunity to relate theory to real working practice and investigate, in-depth, an area of interest to you.
The course is designed to meet the Scottish subject benchmark statement, the Standard for Childhood Practice.
On successful completion of the course, you will have acquired the skills and knowledge to move on to a lead practitioner role.
Similarly, you will be well equipped to take further professional qualifications or a PGDE.
Core subjects include:
Core subjects are:
Depending on entry level, which is based on credit awarded from previous qualifications:
Ireland, including Channel Islands and the Isle of Man) without a term-time address in Scotland,i.e.
studying from their home country, or assessed as RUK fee status, the following fees apply:
All fees are payable in advance each academic year unless otherwise agreed.
This course is not available to students domiciled outside of the UK or for international students (including EU/EEA and Swiss nationals without settled status in the UK) requiring Student Route visa sponsorship to study here..
Once you have successfully completed your ordinary degree BA Childhood Practice course, you will have gained a qualification recognised by the Scottish Social Service Council for Lead Practitioner in a wide range of day care and children's services settings.
In addition, it will also provide valuable CPD for those working in the sector
You can progress from the BA (Hons) Childhood Practice to the following University of the Highlands and Island's postgraduate course:
The BA (Hons) Childhood Practice has been one of the best experiences I have had in relation to my career in childcare and beyond.
The learning is delivered fully online with high-quality materials and tutor support.
I developed skills beyond the course by creating an online community through WhatsApp groups for each module where students can chat and share knowledge.
The networking opportunities are fantastic when you study with UHI as students are based in partner campuses all over Scotland and learning from each other has been another enjoyable part of the experience.
The skills gained through this course have given me the confidence to take on my role as a Senior Early Years Practitioner and for the future to secure managerial or tutor roles.
I would highly recommend choosing to study with UHI!
Jenny studied the BA Childhood Practice at UHI Moray.
I had tremendous support throughout my degree.
This support was invaluable to get me through my degree.
From academic support to support personally, this is what helped me through.
Studying my degree really helped me in my career.
It gave me the confidence to carry out the role I am in.
I gained an insight into understanding aspects of childcare and what guidance is out there to support practitioners and managers in their role.
The best thing about UHI is the support from both students and staff!
Your fellow students are one of the best resources you have and being able to support each other through this is something I won't forget.
UHI has been with me from access course to degree and will always be the first place I recommend to anyone wanting to learn.
It felt personal and friendly and I’m not sure I would get that at any other different university.
Liam studied the BA Childhood Practice at UHI Perth.
This was the right course for me as it was all online, it allowed me the flexibility to do the course work within my own time and have a study plan that I could fit around my already busy life and work commitments.
The tutors were all very supportive and I knew I could send them an email or post on the discussion board with a question at any time and they would get back to me quickly.
I had a couple of one-to-one support sessions throughout the course and these were very beneficial and I felt the tutors were understanding and approachable.
The resources were always available and I really appreciated when the tutors put up several weeks worth of work at a time, which allowed me to work at my own pace and could advance when I had some additional free time or during University holidays, which took the pressure off deadlines a bit.
My favourite thing about UHI are the friendly, supportive and approachable staff!
They all had experience in the childcare sector, so could relate to the students.
Lucille studied the BA Childhood Practice at UHI Perth.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnc-childhood-practice:
Course code 173X
If you enjoy working with children and would like to make a difference to their formative years, the HNC Childhood Practice is the ideal course for you.
This is a nationally recognised qualification and valued award for people who want to work in a variety of early learning and childcare settings, supporting children and young people with varying needs.
This course will give you a deep understanding of working with children and young people, and will help you to integrate knowledge and theory into practice, including the importance of anti-discriminatory practice, in line with the National Care Standards and Scottish Social Services Council Codes of Practice.
On successful completion you will be eligible to register with the Scottish Social Services Council (SSSC) at practitioner level.
Three options units must be taken which may include some of the following:
The HNC Childhood Practice will improve your career prospects in a range of early learning and childcare settings.
You will be able to progress onto a variety of degree courses, following successful interview, such as:
Liam studied the HNC Childhood Practice before progressing to the BA Childhood Practice at UHI Perth.
I have really enjoyed this course.
Our lecturers are extremely helpful and supportive which makes learning fun.
I like the flexibility on offer.
I can attend in person or online at home.
I am a hands-on learner, so being on placement at a nursery was very helpful.
I am now a nursery employee and can fit this in with my studies.
I plan to continue with the Child and Youth Studies degree and then possibly do a PGDE in primary teaching.
Lauren studied the HNC Childhood Practice at UHI North, West and Hebrides.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/cpd-award-childhood-practice-scqf-level-9:
Course code X3CP9
Are you already employed in the children’s services sector?
Do you want to gain a better understanding of the challenges faced by our youngest generations, so that you can better support their needs?
Take your next steps in this varied and vital sector, with our CPD Award Childhood Practice (SCQF level 9), and let us support you to:
You must have a minimum of two years' work experience within two relevant settings PLUS one of the following:
This fully online course can be studied from anywhere in Scotland.
You will be enrolled and supported by staff at your local or chosen campus
You may wish to progress from CPD Award Childhood Practice (SCQF level 9) to the following courses:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ma-children-and-young-peoples-participation-and-leadership:
Course code L500
The MA Children and Young People’s Participation and Leadership is designed for any professional who works with children, young people and their families, with a special interest in facilitating their rights and active participation.
With the new United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child (Incorporation) (Scotland) Act 2024, all adults in Scotland will need to implement this within their working lives, particularly if they work with, support or make decisions that will affect children and young people in Scotland.
This unique course is designed with special thanks to the Scottish Government, the Scottish Youth Parliament, Children’s Parliament Scotland, and relevant children’s rights organisations.
With a strong focus on the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child (UNCRC), there is an opportunity to contextualise how children’s rights, active participation and child-led decisions are integrated within your professional role, and their place as a valued and meaningful part of this process.
An opportunity to examine the Children’s Rights Impact Assessments (CRIAs) that are implemented within the Scottish Government will support understanding of the way in which the UNCRC is given consideration to policy making.
Critical thinking and evaluation will be encouraged, of both national and international perspectives in establishing a culture of children’s rights, to promote these rights as central to legislation, policies and practices for children and young people.
This will enhance your understanding of the way in which the UNCRC underpins all aspects of leadership and participation within both Scotland and an international forum.
You will complete 3 of these modules to obtain the PgCert:
For the PgDip, you will complete the remaining modules from those listed in the PgCert.
To achieve the qualification of MA Children and Young People’s Participation and Leadership, you will complete the following core module:
You may wish to progress from MA Children and Young People’s Participation and Leadership to the following course:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnc-civil-engineering:
Course code 102H
Civil Engineers are responsible for the design and implementation of a wide range of infrastructure, energy and construction projects.
The focus in these varies, from consultation, design and advisory, to site-based work.
The HNC Civil Engineering provides the relevant qualification for a Civil Engineering Technician.
You will benefit from strong industry links and professional practice, giving you the skills required to improve your employment opportunities in this key industry sector.
The programme has the support of local employers such as Pat Munro, Mott MacDonald and The Highland Council.
It is currently delivered for students employed in the sector as trainee Civil Engineering Technicians.
You willl enjoy regular site visits, guest presenters and work-based learning designed to enhance your experience.
Work-based learning builds on your experiences as a Civil Engineering trainee/technician and uses your experience in the learning and teaching, but also as workplace evidence to achieve vocational qualifications.
You will be taught by a team of enthusiastic lecturers with extensive experience and varied qualifications.
We utilise expanding lab facilities and current technology in the delivery of our course and you will be introduced to themes of clean construction and digital innovation throughout the programme.
You can also study HNC Civil Engineering via a Modern Apprenticeship route - please click the link for further details.
Prospective students without the standard entry requirements, as listed above, are encouraged to apply; appropriate, construction-related experience will be taken into consideration
On completion of your HNC Civil Engineering course you will be qualified to take up roles as a civil engineer at technician level.
On successful completion of the HNC Civil Engineering you may progress to year 2 of:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/beng-hons-civil-engineering-graduate-apprenticeship:
Course code H210
Are you a problem-solver?
Could you design and construct infrastructure that will meet the needs of today without compromising the needs of the future?
Civil engineering is an exciting career, especially in the current climate.
Civil engineers are best placed to address the technical, social, environmental, and economic challenges facing society, such as the climate emergency, the automation and digitisation of the construction industry, urbanisation, and the demands of a growing population.
Graduate apprentices learn and earn qualifications whilst gaining experience and developing professionally: you will finish your training ready to progress in your role and add value to your workplace.
This Graduate Apprenticeship BEng (Hons) Civil Engineering is based on industry-defined needs.
Developed in collaboration with employers, the education sector, and industrial professional bodies, it will guide you as you develop the knowledge, understanding, skills and competence that industry needs and expects from graduates.
Advanced entry to year four:
Number of hours per week indicates the total number of hours you should dedicate to the course, which includes time carrying out the roles and responsibilities of your job, gaining experience, and producing workplace evidence (work-based learning).
This GA course requires block time at UHI Inverness Campus.
If you require accommodation for these periods, it is the responsibility of the employer and the GA to make the necessary bookings.
There is no additional funding to support travel and accommodation.
You can enquire about the use of student accommodation for the duration of any block periods.
For more information, please follow the link student accommodation .
Once you have successfully completed this course, you can continue to build on your career and will be eligible to apply for Professional Qualification (IEng).
You may wish to progress from this BEng (Hons) Civil Engineering (Graduate Apprenticeship) to:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/cpd-award-climate-emergency-fundamentals-scqf-level-9:
Course code D4CEF
With the impacts of climate change and extreme weather becoming ever more severe and urgent as each year passes, this new pathway offers the perfect opportunity to enhance one's knowledge, skills and competency in humanity's greatest challenge - the climate emergency.
This CPD Award Climate Emergency Fundamentals (SCQF level 9) will allow you to study three degree level modules exploring different aspects of the climate emergency, to achieve an accredited continuous professional development award.
This course offers a recognised academic award showing an understanding of the climate emergency which is of benefit in a range of employment areas, such as:
You may wish to progress from this CPD Award Climate Emergency Fundamentals (SCQF level 9) to the following courses:
If you have additional experience, or qualifications at level 10 or above, you may also be able to progress to:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/cpd-award-clinical-assessment-for-advanced-practitioners-scqf-level-11:
Course code B7CAP
The Clinical Assessment for Advanced Practitioners (CAAP) module has evolved to reflect the requirement for nurses and AHPs to meet current and future needs of Scotland’s health and social care systems.
A detailed physical examination and clinical assessment are linked with improved patient care outcomes.
These assessment skills are complex but critical to early diagnosis and treatment.
This module will prepare you to undertake a detailed clinical history as you learn how to undertake comprehensive physical and mental health assessments across the life span.
These skills inform decision making when forming a differential diagnosis, ordering diagnostic tests, and as part of the referral process.
You will develop knowledge and skills to combine data and interpret results from your investigations.
This will be underpinned with the relevant application of advanced knowledge of related anatomy and pathophysiology.
These skills, along with those in Prescribing for Healthcare Professionals, are the foundations for Advanced Practitioner roles both in the hospital and community settings.
This module will ensure you are able to perform high quality clinical assessments that will assist in diagnosis, treatment, and appropriate referral, as required within the remit of an advanced practitioner’s role.
It is an essential pillar, as part of an appropriate MSc or as a standalone CPD module, for practitioners working at or towards Advanced Practice status.
This module includes:
You may wish to progress from this CPD Award Clinical Assessment for Advanced Practitioners (SCQF level 11) to the following courses:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/mlitt-coastal-and-maritime-societies-and-cultures:
Course code V300
The sea has often acted as a highway for people living along adjacent coasts and on islands; such communities have frequently experienced closer ties with each other than with places further inland.
The MLitt Coastal and Maritime Societies and Cultures explores these environments from an interdisciplinary perspective.
This course is based on the internationally significant and world-class research of the staff involved and is led by the university’s Centre for History, in collaboration with our Archaeology Institute and Institute for Northern Studies.
MLitt students will study two modules in history, archaeology and northern studies, and then complete a dissertation.
This programme will be of interest to those wishing to develop transferable skills with respect to coastal and maritime themes, and to all who wish to pursue further arts and humanities-based research in these areas.
Taught from the Highlands and Islands, the MLitt Coastal and Maritime Societies and Cultures is available to study from anywhere in the world.
"This masters degree will forever change the way you look at the places where salt water meets the shore." Dr Julie Brown (Professor in English Literature, Clatsop Community College, Oregon, USA).
*Funding support notice*
You will choose one option module from each of history, archaeology and northern studies which may include:
History
Archaeology
Northern studies
*Please note: if you wish to undertake a dissertation in archaeology, you must take the ‘Research and dissertation skills’ module as one of your archaeology options.
To achieve the award of MLitt Coastal and Maritime Societies and Cultures you must complete a research dissertation which will be taken in any one of the three subject areas of history, archaeology or northern studies.
Number of hours per week indicates the total number of hours you should dedicate to the course, which includes time spent in online class discussion and lectures and your own time spent on individual study and research.
Once you have successfully completed this course, you might like to consider a career in:
You may wish to consider progression to a PhD or MRes at the University of the Highlands and Islands or elsewhere.
Our staff draw on their research interests in Scottish, British and imperial history, maritime history, and sport, as well as palaeography and languages of the North Atlantic.
Students receive a thorough grounding, also, in the ‘history of history’ and the major approaches that historians have taken to our subject.
Our programmes train students in the research methods used by historians and seek to open up a range of new perspectives on local, regional, national and global themes, from the medieval to the modern.
Professor David Worthington, head of the Centre for History.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/cpd-award-community-development-scqf-level-9:
Course code Q537
The Continuing Professional Development (CPD) award in Community Development has been designed to meet the specific development and training needs of Gaelic organisations and public authorities working in communities to maintain and regenerate the Gaelic language.
You will look at community development for all settings, rural and urban, that are sensitive to the requirements of Gaelic language development.
You will develop skills to plan for language and community development, drawing together theoretical knowledge with practical steps in community and language revitalisation.
The CPD award will enhance your employment opportunities in various sectors for example:
You may be able to progress to other awards or degree programmes within the Gaelic and Related studies scheme or other UHI awards.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/pda-competition-horse-care:
Course code 92D4
This course is aimed at individuals working with or aspiring to work with competition horses of various disciplines, or those who own or compete horses.
The course covers both the theoretical and practical aspects of working with, training, caring for and preparing a horse for competition.
This includes lunging, fittening, plaiting, trimming, turnout and developing skills in identifying potential horses for different disciplines.
You will have the opportunity to work with a range of horses, either at our Rural Studies Centre at UHI North, West and Hebrides or through our partnership with a selection of equine yards.
Students may be able to apply to the UHI Scholarship Fund.
For all the information and how to apply please use the following link Funding - Scholarships, Bursaries, Awards and Discretionary Funds - UHI Scholarship Fund .
Once you have successfully completed this course, you might like to consider a career within the equine industry, such as a competition groom based at a competition yard or travelling to competitions alongside professional competition riders.
You can progress from the PDA in Competition Horse Care to complete additional PDAs within the HNC Equine Studies .
On completion of the HNC Equine Studies, students may progress to BA (Hons) Equine Business Management .
FOR MORE INFORMATION, OR TO BEGIN THE APPLICATION PROCESS FOR THIS COURSE, PLEASE EMAIL info.nwh@uhi.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnd-computer-science:
Course code 001I
The HND Computer Science course has been designed to meet the growing needs of IT and computing-related sectors, giving you an up-to-date, recognised qualification within the context of an ever-changing employment market.
The range of optional subjects available will allow you to focus on different aspects, perhaps where there is a local demand for particular skills.
The inclusion of subjects such as cloud computing, convergence technologies, network technology and advanced software development will ensure that your qualification is relevant for the 21st century.
On successful completion you will be able to demonstrate competency in a wide range of related skills such as design and implementation of applications including: programming using recognised commercial languages; database design; website design and support; mobile application development; and cyber resilience.
For entry to year 1, HNC Computing :
Year 1 of this course is HNC Computing .
The HND Computer Science will prepare you for a career in programming, website development, and network or cloud engineering.
On successful completion of the HND Computer Science you may progress to the third year of the BSc (Hons) Computing .
Studying opened new doors for me and it could for you too.
Choose a subject that genuinely excites you and just go for it – university is a great way to meet like-minded people, improve your self-confidence, and gain skills you had no idea existed!
One of the great things about UHI is that classes are smaller than other universities.
This has meant more one-to-one time with my lecturers who we're more than happy to sit down and really walk you through a problem.
I think that’s a fantastic approach and one that goes a long way towards fostering a love of the field itself.
There was a real sense of camaraderie among us.
If one person was struggling, we’d all work together to try and come up with a solution.
It was just such a positive atmosphere and I imagine that’s a level of support you don’t get at larger universities.
Ian studied Computing at UHI Perth.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/bsc-hons-computing:
Course code G400
If you are looking for a successful career in the fast-moving computing industry, the BSc (Hons) Computing degree is for you.
You will learn all the knowledge and skills you need to work in this sector, as well as developing key personal and intellectual qualities necessary for continued professional development.
In years three and four you can choose to study for a generic degree in computing or you can specialise in software development or technical support.
This will allow you to exit at the end of the fourth year with a themed award, for example: BSc (Hons) Computing (Networking and Cybersecurity) or BSc (Hons) Computing (Software Engineering).
The course provides a high-quality design/development web education that has been designed to meet employers’ requirements.
When you graduate, you will be well-equipped to implement and manage web design and development projects from start to finish.
Year 1 of the course is HNC Computing.
Year 2 of the course is HND Computer Science.
In year 3 you will choose one of the following pathways:
Core modules for all pathways are:
If you wish to take the Networking and Cyber Security pathway you must take the following option modules:
If you wish to take the Software Engineering pathway you must take the following core modules:
If you wish to take the Computing pathway you may choose from any of the option modules listed above.
You will also complete a dissertation in a topic such as: robotics; web application development; network operations; cloud based networking solutions; or machine learning; or another subject of your own choice.
Students will get an automatic scholarship for the degree (3rd) year and the 4th year of study will be free for those studying full-time, on continuous study, who have paid for the previous three years at the University of the Highlands and Islands.
£15,996
For students who do not normally reside in the UK or European Union) and with a term-time address in Scotland, the following fees apply:
Part-time study is not open to international student requiring Student Route visa sponsorship to study in the UK
A no fee increase guarantee is available for self-funding full-time and structured part-time rest of the UK, EU and international undergraduate students for continuous study for the same award, up to the permitted standard time limit for the relevant award, including where students are following a recognised ‘top-up’ degree structure where the first year and second is made up of an HNC/D award.
Once you have successfully completed the BSc (Hons) Computing you might like to consider employment or entrepreneurship in fields such as:
You can progress from the BSc (Hons) Computing to the following postgraduate courses:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnc-computing:
Course code 304G
This HNC Computing will provide you with useful foundations for a successful career in computing and technology.
It is a broad-based course which will introduce you to, and develop your knowledge of, aspects of software development, technical support, networking and web development.
On completion of your course you might like to consider a career as a trainee programmer, systems analyst, or database administrator.
On successful completion of the HNC Computing, it may be possible to progress to the second year of the HND Computer Science , and then to the third year of the BSc (Hons) Computing degree.
I chose UHI after speaking with Skills Development Scotland at my school.
I knew I wanted to study something around computing but that it had to be local to me.
They suggested UHI as they offer a range computing courses right on my doorstep.
Continuing on with my studies will allow me to develop my skills and experience with a variety of technologies.
Having this versatility and knowledge will undoubtedly be useful for my future career.
Casey studied the HNC Computing at UHI Shetland.
I did not consider any other universities, as I lived nearby.
I found the style of teaching helpful, and I believe what I have learned in my studies will help me as I pursue a career in games development.
Jordan studied the HNC Computing at UHI North, West and Hebrides.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/cpd-award-computing-studies-for-teachers-scqf-level-7:
Course code 99X2
This CPD Award Computing Studies for Teachers course is designed to help qualified primary and secondary school teachers develop the general knowledge and skills required to deliver the computing curriculum up to SCQF Level 3.
Set up as a part-time, rolling programme with one module being offered each semester, you will complete both of the following modules in year one:
Database & Computer Systems
This module will cover the basics of computer systems and how the various hardware and software elements interact.
Subjects covered include data representation and number systems, computer structure and the environmental impact of such.
Coding and Web Technologies
This module will develop knowledge, understanding and problem-solving skills related to modern Web Design and Software Development.
Students will also learn best-practice techniques to build Websites and Web Apps using HTML and CSS in combination with a programming language to build and test software.
Although the focus of the course will be on developing skills, knowledge and understanding to teach general computing skills, you will be encouraged to explore teaching methodologies, develop and share learning activities and resources, and develop ideas on how to put these into practice.
Applicants must be:
Modules are:
You can study this fully online programme from anywhere in Scotland.
You will be enrolled and supported by staff at UHI Inverness.
You will need access to a computer in order to complete your coursework, as well as broadband access to allow interaction with the learning materials on the VLE.
Existing UHI LIS advice on minimum computer specifications and broadband speeds should be followed.
It is expected that applicants are already qualified primary or secondary school teachers who are employed full-time or part-time within an educational setting.
On completion of this course you will be able to deliver the computing curriculum up to SCQF Level 3.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/pda-conduct-the-assessment-process-scqf-level-8:
Course code 92X1
This award is for assessors of non-workplace standards e.g.
HNs or qualifications assessed during training courses or as part of off-the-job training.
The PDA has been developed for those who assess a wide variety of non-workplace settings, for example, teachers or lecturers involved in the delivery of Skills for Work (SfW) courses or National Progression Awards (NPAs).
It is also used by training providers and Further Education (FE) centres offering: Higher National (HN) qualifications and PDAs; First Aid Certificates in a simulated environment; assessment of PC Passports in an open access centre; or assessing units in a classroom environment.
This Unit is for assessor-candidates who are assessing learners in a classroom or other off-job training environments, such as training centres and workshops.
Tasks will involve:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/pda-conduct-the-internal-verification-process-scqf-level-8:
Course code 92X2
This award is relevant to teachers, lecturers and tutors who may have a role in quality-assuring the delivery of a range of qualifications that are assessed in a non-workplace context and in ensuring consistency of assessment decisions made within their delivering centre.
The PDA provides a benchmark standard for anyone in a school, college or training provision, who is internally verifying a range of qualifications, for example: the new National Qualifications (NQs) awards; Skills for Work (SfW) courses; National Progression awards (NPAs); Higher National (HN) units or awards; customised awards; First Aid; PC Passport; or assessed units in a classroom environment.
This Unit is for verifier-candidates who are internally verifying the assessment processes and practice in a classroom or other off-job training environments, such as training centres and workshops.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/msc-conservation-management-in-freshwater-environments:
Course code C160
If you’re looking for a master’s programme that takes you beyond the classroom and into the heart of real-world conservation, this is it.
Our MSc in Conservation Management in Freshwater Environments is designed to immerse you in the practical skills, scientific knowledge, and field experience needed to make a tangible impact on freshwater ecosystems.
You’ll be based in the stunning Scottish Highlands, where your learning will culminate in a professional placement with a conservation-active organisation.
This is your chance to get directly involved in applied conservation, whether that’s collecting environmental data in the field, analysing samples in a cutting-edge eDNA lab, or using programming and GIS to explore patterns in biodiversity.
Alongside your placement, you’ll deepen your expertise through focused study in topics like applied genetics, freshwater conservation science, and data visualisation in R.
Throughout the course, you’ll be guided by leading experts and supported to develop the skills that conservation employers need, from hands-on fieldwork to critical analysis and effective communication.
You'll leave the programme not just with a degree, but with real experience that sets you apart.
Graduates from this programme go on to careers as wildlife biologists, environmental consultants, policy advisors, and GIS specialists, as well as into roles in conservation education and ecotourism.
Whether you want to work in the field, in the lab, or at the interface between science and policy, this MSc gives you the tools, and the experience, to make it happen.
Plus 1 of the following optional modules:
To achieve the award of MSc Conservation Management in Freshwater Environments, you must also complete a placement with a Scottish conservation-relevant organisation and report back on the real-world conservation actions you participate in.
*10-12 hours per module per week The number of hours per week indicates the total number of hours you should dedicate to the course, which includes time spent on online material as well as individual study and research.
UHI offers assistance in the form of bursaries, such as the Reid Endowment Fund , for students who need to travel to attend mandatory academic activities.
Please visit our funding pages for more information .
You will be required to attend a one-week field course and a one-week lab course as part of the programme, both of which are based in UHI Inverness.
These will incur travel and accommodation costs for students who are not resident in Inverness (see the Funding section for financial assistance).
You may wish to progress from MSc Conservation Management in Freshwater Environments into a further research degree such as a PhD in Environmental or Freshwater science.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/bsc-hons-construction-and-the-built-environment-graduate-apprenticeship:
Course code K200
The programme is based on industry-defined needs and has been developed in collaboration with employers, the education sector, and professional bodies to allow knowledge, understanding, skills and competence to be developed with the necessary attributes industry expects from graduates.
The degree content will be delivered via work-based learning, meaning that learning will occur in the workplace and at University.
Workplace evidence will form teaching, learning and assessment material enhancing the students’ experience.
This BSc (Hons) Construction and the Built Environment (Graduate Apprenticeship)* is fully funded by Skills Development Scotland and provides the skills, knowledge, experience, academic qualification, and professional recognition for candidates starting out in their career or looking to progress as graduate in Construction and the Built Environment.
Providing skills, experience and qualifications to the Scottish workforce is a key objective of the Scottish Government built on the success of the apprenticeship family (Foundation, Modern, Technical and Graduate Apprenticeship Frameworks).
Construction and the Built Environment is an exciting sector best placed to adapt to the climate emergency, automation and digitisation of construction and provide skilled workforce to support growing population and aging workforce.
This programme has been developed to provide an opportunity for graduate apprentices to learn and earn qualifications whilst gaining experience and developing professionally.
The University of the Highlands and Islands have extensive experience delivering the apprenticeship family and in providing distributed learning.
The programme will be delivered with a blend of live delivery, on-line delivery and support when learning in the workplace.
We pride ourselves in the personalised delivery and support when can offer our students and employer partners.
*subject to validation
Advanced entry into year 2 may be possible with:
Advanced entry into year 3 may be possible with:
*Subject specified based on professional practice modules, to reflect employment position (architectural technology, building control, construction management, or quantity surveying)
Full-time: 4 years @ variable hours per week
Block release schedule:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnc-construction-management:
Course code 252K
If you aspire to enter the construction industry at a supervisory level, the HNC Construction Management will give you the knowledge and skills to achieve this.
The construction industry is one of the most diverse and interesting fields to work in, with careers available including: architectural technology; construction management; quantity surveying; and facility management.
Option units may include:
You will be qualified for employment such as: trainee construction manager; construction planner; or site-based management assistant.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ma-contemporary-art-and-archaeology:
Course code V470
This new MA programme is unique in the UK in linking the fields of contemporary art and archaeology.
It encourages students to take a collaborative and interdisciplinary approach to artmaking and research-led creative practice.
Core modules will immerse you in an established, interdisciplinary community of practice which stretches from Orkney to the wider world.
From crofting landscapes and ancient monuments to renewable energy and cutting-edge technology, the Highlands and Islands is where past, present and future meet, at the interface of the global and local.
This outward-looking MA embraces this setting by providing creative and interdisciplinary approaches to the scholarly study of material and visual culture, arts, and heritage.
Specialist optional modules in both art and archaeology will allow you to build a bespoke MA which explores both the deep past of this fascinating region and plays a role in its sustainable, creative future.
This exciting course will allow you to explore, both independently and collaboratively, original and creative responses to current issues and develop your own practice as a uniquely interdisciplinary Contemporary Art and Archaeology practitioner.
You will also choose two option modules, one in archaeology and one in creative practice.
You will also choose one option module in either archaeology or creative practice.
To achieve the award of MA you must complete a final project in contemporary art and archaeology.
Once you have successfully completed this course, you might like to consider careers in the creative and cultural industries.
This includes roles such as museum and exhibition curating, interpretation, or pursuing your own independent career as a creative practitioner.
You can progress from this course to the university's postgraduate research degrees, which will allow you to undertake independent research into a range of art and archaeology subjects.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnc-contemporary-art-practice:
Course code 209W
Join these stimulating, project-based, interdisciplinary courses and respond to a range of creative briefs designed to challenge, motivate, and inspire.
Explore a variety of media, processes, and techniques, including drawing, painting, sculpture, film, and photography.
Develop your personal work and projects, with modules in portfolio-building and personal development planning.
These courses form the first two years of our BA (Hons) Art and Contemporary Practices.
Optional units may include:
This course prepares you for a creative career as a practising artist, or as a creative practitioner within community arts, education or galleries.
You may be able to progress to the:
As well as developing my artistic ability the course has taught me business skills such as marketing, and planning as well as providing an insight into what being a freelance artist could be like.
The course helped me to develop new photography skills which I never would’ve thought to try and has given me the confidence to enter local exhibitions and competitions and attend pop-up markets with both my photography and artwork.
My favourite thing about UHI is that there’s often a lot of student opportunities such as pop-up events (e.g., Therapets, zoom cooking classes) or competitions to participate in outside of the course.
Sophie studied the HNC and HND Contemporary Art Practice at UHI Inverness.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnd-contemporary-art-practice:
Course code 309W
For entry to year 1, HNC Contemporary Art Practice :
Year 1 of this course is the HNC Contemporary Art Practice .
*If you wish to undertake this unit you will be required to complete a PVG Disclosure Check and become a PVG scheme member.
On successful completion of this course you may choose to seek employment as a:
On completion of this course you may be able to progress to:
Sophie studied the HND Contemporary Art Practice at UHI Inverness.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-contemporary-film-making-in-the-highlands-and-islands:
Course code W600
Set the scene for your future amongst the beautiful and diverse rural landscapes of Scotland.
Write, capture, and produce creative films in collaboration with local communities; involve experts in the arts and cultural fields, and cultivate healthy industry links that will stand you in good stead for your future career.
Study craft skills, editing and production, film studies, documentaries, and cultural archiving and recording, in an environment that encourages personal development and learning.
Gain valuable knowledge in small business planning and research, while acquiring the technical ability and hands-on, intensive experience needed to succeed in this rewarding industry.
You will also undertake a major film project (60 credits).
Residentials take place twice each year and you will be required to self-fund any travel to these and cover accommodation and subsistence costs.
There is a mandatory residential in the third year for the Live Event Production module assessment, which requires travel to Shetland for 3 days.
You will be expected to cover costs (including overnight ferry, hostel accommodation and subsistence), which are expected to be upwards of £250.
Please be aware that you will incur costs during the making of your films for assessments.
You should work within your means and make use of existing inter-disciplinary working relationships with drama and music students at UHI.
On successful completion of this degree, you might like to consider an enhanced career in:
Creating and learning as a filmmaker is the whole point of the course and having the ability to express ourselves tops a lot of other courses.
I’ve had great support both as a class member and as an individual.
The course is being run fantastically, with the course leader listening to our concerns and using this feedback to improve the programme for future students.
Andy is studying the BA (Hons) Contemporary Film-making in the Highlands and Islands.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/cpd-award-cosca-certificate-in-counselling-skills-scqf-level-8:
Course code C8CC
The COSCA Certificate in Counselling Skills (SCQF level 8) is aimed at a wide range of people who may benefit from improving and enhancing communication and listening skills.
This may include: guidance personnel; those working in social care; HR/Management staff etc.
Applicants may also be interested in the opportunity to study Rogers’ person-centred approach whilst honing their own ability to reflect on self and build supportive relationships.
As well as offering an academic award which can be used to apply for further study, students are provided with a safe environment for personal development.
The award is validated by COSCA (Counselling & Psychotherapy in Scotland).
For students applying to UHI Shetland, this course is delivered every other year, as follows:
You will be liable for the cost of the module workbooks from COSCA (approx £20-£50 total).
The course will enhance your skills and enrich your practice within any occupation.
Achieving the COSCA Certificate in Counselling Skills (SCQF level 8) will allow you to apply for further study in counselling at HNC/D level.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnc-counselling:
Course code 448C
This HNC Counselling is designed to appeal not only to those who wish to progress and eventually qualify as a counsellor, but also to those practicing in any sector that would benefit from the range of skills employed in a helping/supporting relationship, for example: community work; social care; education; criminal justice; health services; and voluntary work.
The course integrates theory, skills practice, reflection, and self-development.
There is a strong emphasis on personal development and there will be work relating to reflective skills, self-awareness, assertiveness, and dealing with challenges.
The HNC doesn't qualify you to practice counselling but is the ideal stepping stone if you wish to proceed onto this career path.
*completion of this module is required for anyone wishing to progress to HND - PVG scheme membership is required to undertake this module
Number of hours per week indicates the total number of hours spent in lectures, you should also take into account your own time spent on individual study and research.
For Shetland students, this course runs on alternate years, with HND Counselling (year 2) being delivered every second year:
For Orkney students, 2025/26 applications are open for both HNC and HND in Counselling which usually run on alternate years.
Priority for 2025/26 will be given to HND (year 2).
However, if there are insufficient numbers to make the HND viable, consideration will be given to running a further HNC in 2025/26 with progression to HND in 2026/27.
Once you have successfully completed this course, you might like to consider careers in agencies where counselling skills are required, such as:
You may wish to progress from HNC Counselling to HND Counselling .

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnd-counselling:
Course code 548C
This HND Counselling is ideal for those wishing to become professional counsellors.
Designed to meet the British Association for Counselling and Psychotherapy (BACP) requirements for individual entry to the professional register, the course is taught by experienced, practicing counsellors who hold current BACP membership.
With a strong emphasis on personal development, the course integrates theory, skills practice, reflection, and self-development.
You will strengthen your reflective skills, self-awareness, and assertiveness, and learn the best approaches for dealing with challenges.
The course will benefit those who wish to progress and qualify as a counsellor, as well as those practicing in a sector that requires the range of skills employed in a helping/supporting relationship, for example: community work; social care; education; criminal justice; health services; and voluntary work.
Year 1 of this course is the HNC Counselling .
Number of hours per week indicates the total number of hours spent in lectures, you should also take into account your own time spent on individual study, placement hours and research.
For Shetland students, please be aware that years 1 and 2 run on alternate years:
Once you have successfully completed this course, you may wish to pursue a career in Professional counselling.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-creative-writing-in-the-highlands-and-islands:
Course code W830
The innovative BA (Hons) Creative Writing in the Highlands and Islands is designed to give you a solid grounding in the creative principles, in both form and structure of four of the main areas of creative writing: poetry, prose, playwriting and the screenplay.
You will be encouraged to explore how these can inform and support other areas of professional writing in gaming, advertising, marketing, vlogs etc.
You will have the opportunity to present your work using traditional methods as well as using new technologies and publishing platforms.
The course aims to place creative disciplines within the cultural, social, political, geographical and historical context of Scotland, and to show how they make the area culturally unique but connect it to the literature, cultural traditions and histories of its geographical neighbours.
You will be encouraged to pursue your individual creativity, along with both the necessary intellectual stimulation and understanding of the professionalism required to be a successful writer in your chosen field.
The degree capitalises on the popularity of books and series set in Scotland and beyond, and will encourage you to realise the potential opportunity these existing and developing markets represent for your work.
You will also choose one of the following modules:
You may also choose one of the following modules:
Once you have successfully completed this degree, you might like to consider careers in:
You may progress from BA (Hons) Creative Writing in the Highlands and Islands to the following postgraduate courses at the university:
I wanted to study somewhere that I could meet others on the course and make connections within the student and literary world that I could build on in the future.
I also wanted to have somewhere local that I could access for support during my time on the course as well as the lecturers that would be teaching me.
The Creative Writing degree is a relatively new degree but the experience that the lecturers have is amazing.
They support us as students and fledgling writers and nurture our varying talents until we produce work, we are proud of.
Every lecturer I have had so far has been helpful and very encouraging.
I approached some other students on the course and suggested I’d like to set up a Writing club.
I created UHI Scribblers, with the help of a fellow student and with enthusiastic encouragement from our lecturer.
The experience so far has been a rollercoaster of fun and learning.
The residential is especially great as we can connect with our fellow students on the course.
Lynne is studying BA (Hons) Creative Writing in the Highlands and Islands at UHI Moray.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-criminology:
Course code L311
How curious are you about crime, why it happens and what we are doing to prevent it?
If you are interested in studying crime and victimisation then the BA (Hons) Criminology provides you with the necessary knowledge and skills to develop a critical understanding of the major theories deployed throughout criminology.
Criminology draws on a wide range of human and social science disciplines and is both a theoretical and empirical subject, with many of criminology’s most significant advances achieved through empirical studies.
Core to this programme is developing clear and confident research methods and analysis skills.
You will also develop a critical understanding of the local, national and international context of crime, offenders, victimisation and responses to crime (including cybercrime, crime in literature, and globalisation and crime).
In the first and second years, you will follow a traditional broad approach to the study of criminology.
In years three and four, you will examine, in-depth, particular areas of criminology, allowing you to study specific topics and themes which reflect staff research specialisms.
Each year, you will build on your analytical and research abilities through the core research methods modules.
The degree also offers the opportunity to study other Humanities subjects such as sociology, history, literature, archaeology, politics, and theology.
You will study the following core modules: Semester 1
You will also choose two option modules from our range of humanities subjects.
You will also choose one option module from our range of humanities subjects.
You will also complete a dissertation (both semesters).
On successful completion of this degree, you will have a wide range of employment opportunities in the commercial, statutory, and voluntary sectors, including:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-criminology-and-theology:
Course code L3CT
If you are interested in studying crime and theology, then the BA (Hons) Criminology and Theology degree will give you a solid grounding in both disciplines, and give you the opportunity to combine two subjects, which complement your interests or career goals.
The course offers you the opportunity to study a wide range of themes and topics across a broad sweep of modules, emphasising the value of empirical and theoretical approaches.
This is achieved by studying the changing nature of crime and the social, political, historical and individual forces behind these changes, with specific focus on study and influence of the main disciplines of Christian theology.
In the first and second years, you will follow a traditional broad approach to the study of criminology and theology.
In years three and four, you will examine in-depth particular areas of criminology and theology, allowing you to study specific topics and themes which reflect staff research specialisms.
Each year, you will build on your analytical and research abilities.
The degree also offers the opportunity to study other Humanities subjects such as criminology, history, literature, archaeology, and politics.
You will study the following core modules: Criminology
Theology
The core modules are: Criminology
You will study one of the following core modules:
Criminology
You will complete a dissertation in criminology or theology.
You will also study one option module from your chosen dissertation subject, plus three option modules from the other subject.
On successful completion of this degree you may consider postgraduate study or research.
You will also have a wide range of employment opportunities in the commercial, statutory and voluntary sectors including:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/msc-cultar-duthchasach-agus-eachdraidh-na-gaidhealtachd:
Course code 93Q7
Tha an cùrsa ùr-ghnàthaichte seo, le cliù fad is farsaing, a’ toirt dhut cothrom sònraichte mion-eòlas a chur air dualchas nan Gàidheal – uile-gu-lèir tron Ghàidhlig.
Cuiridh tu èolas farsaing is domhainn air na h-atharrachaidhean iongantach ann an saoghal nan Gàidheal thar nan linn suas chun an latha an-diugh, le taic bho bheairteas cultar dùthchasach, litreachas, beul-aithris, agus cànan nan daoine.
Dh’fhaodadh gu bheil eòlas agad mar-thà air beul-aithris, cultar dùthchasach, agus eachdraidh sgìrean fa leth.
Tro bhith gan suidheachadh ann an co-theacsa fharsaing na Gàidhealtachd air fad, le sùil shònraichte air cultar dùthchasach – an iomadach rud a chruthaich agus a chleachd na Gàidheil – gheibh thu tuigse dhomhainn mu shaoghal nan Gàidheal an-dè agus an-diugh, nach fhaighear ann an àiteigin eile.
Am measg nam modalan a tha riatanach gus PgCert a chosnadh tha:
Am measg nam modalan a tha riatanach gus PgDip a chosnadh tha:
Bidh agad ri modal eile roghainneil a thaghadh:
Gus MSc a chosnadh feumaidh tu tràchdas rannsachaidh a chrìochnachadh gu soirbheachail.
Airson oileanaich a tha mar as trice a’ fuireach sa chòrr den RA (Sasainn, a’ Chuimrigh agus Èirinn a Tuath) no air am measadh mar chòrr den RA airson inbhe chìsean, bidh na cìsean a leanas an sàs:
Às deidh don RA falbh bhon Aonadh Eòrpach, dhearbh Riaghaltas na h-Alba gum bi nàiseanaich an EU/EEA agus Eilbheis, aig nach eil inbhe shuidhichte no ro-shuidhichte, air am meas mar eadar-nàiseanta airson adhbharan chìsean.
Airson 2022-23, gheibh oileanaich sgoilearachd fèin-ghluasadach.
Do dh’oileanaich nach àbhaist a bhith a’ fuireach san RA no san Aonadh Eòrpach, ag ionnsachadh air-loidhne bhon dùthaich aca fhèin, no air am measadh mar inbhe eadar-nàiseanta airson chìsean, bidh na cìsean a leanas an sàs:
Tha gealltanas àrdachadh gun chìs ri fhaighinn airson fèin-mhaoineachadh làn-ùine agus structarail pàirt-ùine an còrr den RA, EU agus oileanaich iar-cheumnach eadar-nàiseanta airson ionnsachadh leantainneach airson an aon duais, suas chun na h-ùine àbhaisteach ceadaichte airson na duaise iomchaidh.
Faodaidh oileanaich phàirt-ùine a bhios freagarrach, agus a dh’fhuiricheas ann an Alba, cur a-steach airson iasadan cìs taoidhtearachd bho SAAS.
Feumaidh e bhith fainear dhut crìoch a chur air a’ chùrsa, air a’ char as fhaide, dà uibhir cho fada ’s a bheireadh e do dh’oileanach làn-ùine.
Mar eisimpleir, ma mhaireas an cùrsa agad aon bhliadhna làn-ùine, gheibheadh tu maoineachadh airson dà bhliadhna phàirt-ùine air a’ char bu mhotha.
Mur a h-eil roghainn làn-ùine ann, dh’fheumadh tu an cùrsa a chrìochnachadh taobh a-staigh trì bliadhna.
Faodaidh tu cur a-steach airson iasad cìs taoidhtearachd suas gu £7,000, a thèid a phàigheadh pro rata airson gach bliadhna acadaimigich.
Gheibhear làn fhiosrachadh air làraich-lìn SAAS .
Fosglaidh tagraidhean airson iasadan anns a’ Ghiblean.
Dh’fhaodadh gum bi e comasach dha oileanach bhon chòrr den RA a bhios freagarrach cur a-steach airson iasad bhon Student Loan Company .

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-culture-and-heritage:
Course code V900
The BA (Hons) Culture and Heritage, and related joint honours degrees, will appeal to anybody who has an interest in how the identity of the Highlands and Islands was formed, how history and decisions taken outside the region have fashioned our character and landscapes, and how that translates to life today.
You will study a wide range of subjects allowing you to explore the key cultural, historical, literary, language, musical and philosophical issues of the region, at both regional and national levels, as well as placing them within a global context.
The programme covers everything from art, film, and literature, to museums, Vikings, and language.
The course is aimed at anyone who wishes to study in this growing interdisciplinary field.
You can set your own research agenda, enabling you to choose your topics for study at all levels.
Teaching is multi-disciplinary, and you will bring this all together in your learning throughout your studies.
Take this unique opportunity to immerse yourself in the wealth of culture and heritage within the Highlands and Islands of Scotland, and gain an understanding of our place in the world today.
You will also choose two option modules from across the university's humanities portfolio
You will choose two of the following option modules::
You will also choose two option modules from across the university's humanities portfolio.
You will also choose one option module from across the university's humanities portfolio.
You must also complete a dissertation.
Once you have successfully completed your BA (Hons) Culture and Heritage, you might like to consider careers in:
I’m passionate about culture and heritage and this course was the only one that fit my own interests.
Being able to also have an element of Gaelic culture and heritage in my course was fantastic.
I can’t speak highly enough of the staff who have supported me through my journey at UHI.
From the very first day there has been help available.
The relationship between the teaching staff and the student is so important and that’s one of the reasons I’m considering further study at UHI.
The Culture and Heritage team have been utterly fantastic.
That flexibility also means that fellow students are based all over Scotland but that has not been a barrier to forming friendships and supportive study groups, in fact, fellow students are also one of my favourite things – there has been a mix of students, all different ages, nationalities and backgrounds and that has really added to the experience for me.
Margaret is studying the BA (Hons) Culture and Heritage with Gaelic Studies at UHI Inverness.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-culture-heritage-and-archaeology:
Course code V90A
This joint degree gives you the opportunity to immerse yourself in both the cultural and physical identities of the Scottish Highlands and Islands.
As well as exploring the fascinating and varied cultural heritage of the region, you will also acquire the practical skills required for archaeological fieldwork, surveying and post-excavation.
Archaeology is closely linked to the distinctive cultural heritage of the Highlands and Islands as well as wider Scotland, and you will develop a wealth of skills in both disciplines through your studies and fieldwork.
Your research skills will be refined throughout the course, enhancing your career prospects as well as equipping you for progression to postgraduate study.
Culture and heritage
You will study two core modules:
You will study one core module:
PLUS one of the following (S2):
Archaeology :
PLUS one of the following:
PLUS two options which may include:
Plus one of the following:
You will also choose one option module from across the range of humanities subjects.
You will complete a dissertation in culture and heritage or archaeology.
Once you have successfully completed your BA (Hons) Culture, Heritage and Archaeology, you might like to consider careers in:
That flexibility also means that fellow students are based all over Scotland but that has not been a barrier to forming friendships and supportive study groups, in fact, fellow students are also one of my favourite things – there has been a  mix of students, all different ages, nationalities and backgrounds and that has really added to the experience for me.
Margaret is studying culture and heritage at UHI Inverness.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-culture-heritage-and-criminology:
Course code V90C
This course covers:
Criminology: the changing nature of crime and the social, political, historical and individual forces behind these changes
You will study three core modules:
You will also study one option module from across the university's humanities portfolio
You will also choose one option module from across the university's humanities portfolio.
Plus two option modules, which may include:
You will also study:
You will complete a dissertation in culture and heritage or criminology.
Once you have successfully completed your BA (Hons) Culture, Heritage and Criminology, you might like to consider careers in:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-culture-heritage-and-history:
Course code V90H
Combining the complementary subjects of culture and heritage with history, this joint degree covers a wide range of subjects from early history through to the modern day.
You will explore culture, history, language, literature and much more, within a national and international context, preparing you for life beyond university.
As you progress through the course, you will choose from a combination of modules, equally balanced between the two disciplines.
You will have the opportunity to participate in an optional museum studies module, as well as possible volunteering positions across the Highlands.
You will study the following modules.
Culture and Heritage
You will choose a further two option modules from a range of history, culture and heritage and other humanities subjects.
Plus one of the following (S2):
You will study one of two core modules:
You will also study a further five options, ensuring a balance of three Culture and Heritage and three History modules.
Modules may include the following options.
Students wishing to specialise in Scottish History at Level 10 are advised to take at least one Scottish History option, plus undertake a Scottish topic for their Public History project, or two Scottish History options if they are not taking Public History.
You will complete a dissertation in Culture and Heritage or History.
If you wish to exit with a Culture, Heritage and Scottish History degree you must undertake a Scottish History dissertation plus one further Scottish History OR, if you are undertaking a Culture & Heritage dissertation, two of the three History modules must be in Scottish History.
The number of hours per week indicates the total number of hours you should dedicate to the course, which includes a weekly two-hour video conference seminar for each module, online tutor-supported study and self-directed study.
Once you have successfully completed your BA (Hons) Scottish Cultural Studies and History, you might like to consider careers in:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-culture-heritage-and-literature:
Course code V90L
This course is aimed at anyone who wishes to study in a rapidly growing interdisciplinary field.
You can set your own research agendas, choosing your topics for study at all levels and bringing together the multi-disciplinary teaching and learning you will experience throughout your studies.
You will have the unique opportunity to immerse yourself in the wealth of the fascinating and varied culture and heritage of the Highlands and Islands of Scotland and, using a wide range of authors and texts, from classic to contemporary, explore literature in a global context, looking in-depth at language and literary history.
Literature
You will also study two option modules from across the university's humanities portfolio.
You will also choose one of the following (S2):
Literature You will choose two of the following:
Plus two options which may include:
Literature You will study three modules, which may include:
You will complete a dissertation in either Culture and Heritage or Literature.
Once you have successfully completed your BA (Hons) Culture, Heritage and Literature, you might like to consider careers in:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-culture-heritage-and-politics:
Course code V90P
Politics: how political structures and ideologies shapes our lives and are organised differently around the world
Politics
Plus two option modules from across the university's humanities portfolio.
You will study the following core modules.
You will also study two options from your chosen core module subject plus two option modules from the other discipline.
You will complete a dissertation in Culture and Heritage or Politics.
Once you have successfully completed your BA (Hons) Culture, Heritage and Politics, you might like to consider careers in:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-culture-heritage-and-sociology:
Course code V90S
Sociology: the study of the development, structure, and functioning of human society
Sociology
You will also study one of the following:
Sociology You will study two of the following:
Plus two options which may include (S2):
Sociology Modules may include:
You will complete a dissertation in either Culture and Heritage or Sociology.
Once you have successfully completed your BA (Hons) Culture, Heritage and Sociology, you might like to consider careers in:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-culture-heritage-and-theology:
Course code V90T
Theology: the study of the main disciplines of Christian theology
Theology You will study two of the following modules:
Plus two option module from across the university's humanities portfolio.
You will also study one of the following (S2)
Theology Options will include:
Culture and Heritage Modules may include:
Theology Modules may include:
You will complete a dissertation in Culture and Heritage or Theology.
Once you have successfully completed your BA (Hons) Culture, Heritage and Theology, you might like to consider careers in:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-culture-heritage-with-gaelic-studies:
Course code V90G
The BA (Hons) Culture and Heritage with Gaelic Studies will appeal to anyone with a broad interest in the Highlands and Islands region and Scotland in general.
On this course, you will have the opportunity to learn the Gaelic language from native speakers or enhance any language skills you may already have, and can choose to study in English or Gaelic in a number of modules.
You willl also have the choice of writing your end of year projects in English or Gaelic in your third and fourth years.
You will study a wide range of subjects, allowing you to explore the key cultural, historical, literary, language, musical and philosophical issues of the region at both national and regional levels, as well as placing them within a global context.
The programme covers everything from art, film and literature, to museums, Vikings and plants.
The programme is aimed at anyone who wishes to study in the distinctive fields of culture, heritage and Gaelic language studies.
You can set your own research agendas, choosing your own topics for study at all levels and bringing together the multi-disciplinary teaching and learning you will experience throughout your studies.
Culture and Heritage You will study three  of the following modules:
Gaelic You will study two of the following modules:
You will also choose one option module from across the university's humanities subjects.
Culture and Heritage You will choose three modules, which may include:
Gaelic Studies You will choose two from the following:
Plus one option module from across the humanities subjects.
Plus two options, which may include:
Gaelic Studies You will choose two  modules from:
You will complete a dissertation, plus four option modules.
Culture and Heritage You will choose two modules, which may include:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/cpd-award-developing-a-community-energy-project-scqf-level-11:
Course code F85CE
Are you passionate about sustainability, renewable energy, and making a positive impact on communities?
Do you want to work on real community energy case studies, gaining hands-on experience that sets you apart in the job market?
Our CPD module, Developing a Community Energy Project (SCQF level 11), isn’t just about theory, it's about practical application, offering you the unique opportunity to dive into the world of community-driven, sustainable energy initiatives.
Explore the intricate interplay of community energy projects with political and social dynamics as you learn to critically assess these dimensions, developing insightful conclusions about the issues that arise.
Develop your problem-solving expertise as you gain the ability to critically examine the challenges faced by community energy projects and local renewable energy generation.
Let this module be your gateway to a career that makes a difference.
Join us to become a leader in developing net zero communities through grassroots energy projects, embracing a greener, brighter future and becoming a change-maker in the exciting field of community energy.
Number of hours per week indicates the total number of hours you should dedicate to the course, which includes time spent on online study and your own time spent on individual study and research.
Upon successful completion of this CPD, you may wish to pursue roles such as:
You may wish to progress from CPD Award Developing a Community Energy Project (SCQF level 11) to the following courses:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/cpd-award-developmental-creative-practice-scqf-level-8:
Course code W315
This CPD Award in Developmental Creative Practice (SCQF level 8) provides a short-course opportunity for practitioners in the creative industries.
Suitable for artists working in the disciplines of creative writing, dance, digital media, music, film, theatre, traditional crafts and visual art, the award aims to encourage the review, evaluation and, if appropriate, re-centring of personal practice, with the support of a wider peer group from the sector.
You will experience a holistic and varied learning experience, including a mix of one to one, project work and group critiques.
Delivered fully online, there is flexibility to engage regardless of location.
By identifying areas for self-improvement and development, through reflective practice, you will be encouraged to explore new ways of working and to challenge current assumptions about your work.
The impact of the coronavirus pandemic was felt across the creative sector, with many artists vulnerable to loss of employment and decreased motivation in the context of making work.
This award provides an avenue through which you can reconnect with creativity and likeminded others, providing space and stimulus to explore, clarify, inspire and affirm personal practice.
You will study the following module:
Number of hours per week indicates the total number of hours you should dedicate to the course, which consists of between 2-5 hours tutor contact, plus the equivalent time spent in self-directed study.
You are expected to explore your own practice during study and will be responsible for sourcing all materials and equipment required.
This course will enable you to continue and progress within your established field, through enhanced reflection, peer support and connectivity that is multi-disciplinary in nature.
You will exit with a refreshed perspective on your practice and the energy to consider new approaches and ideas.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnc-digital-design-and-web-development:
Course code 107I
The HNC Digital Design and Web Development will give you professional knowledge in the development of interactive and digital media products.
It will provide you with an up-to-date qualification within an ever-changing industry.
With digital media becoming an essential aspect of marketing and communications, having the skills in a wide area of disciplines will help you build your career.
Develop a wide range of transferable skills in a number of key disciplines including, graphic design, 2D animation, web design, application and games development, audio/video production, and programming.
Core units include:
Optional units available may vary depending on study location, for more information contact your chosen campus
The HNC Digital Design and Web Development has been designed to keep pace with the latest developments in industry, enabling students to learn the latest techniques using software such a Adobe Photoshop and Illustrator, App Inventor, 3DS Max, and Unity.
On successful completion, you may wish to seek immediate employment in the digital media industry or progress to further study.
On successful completion of the HNC, you may be able to progress to the second year of our BSc (Hons) Interactive Media .
Ian studied Computing at UHI.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/cpd-award-digital-futures-in-health-and-social-care-scqf-level-9:
Course code L45D
This CPD Digital Futures in Health and Social Care (SCQF level 9) course is aimed at anyone who wants to learn about the changing nature of health alongside the use of digital technology.
The module content will help you to understand how and why we are moving towards digital technologies in healthcare, and equip you with the ability to critically analyse the use of these technologies within health and social care.
Digital futures looks specifically at issues such as big data, surveillance, privacy, ethics, interoperability and information governance.
Using a multi-discipline approach of sociological, psychological and political theory, you will gain the ability to understand and apply your learning to case studies and technology thoughout the module.
This module is particularly useful to anyone in employment in areas such as health and social care, wishing to learn about their digital work environments.
You will study the following topics as part of this module:
This module qualifies for Upskilling funding, you may be able to apply for this subject to availability - please contact the college for further details .
Successful completion of this qualification can be shown to current and future employers as evidence of Continued Professional Development in the field of Digital Health and Care, and enable progression within your chosen career.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/cpd-award-digital-health-and-social-care-scqf-level-11:
Course code B9DH
The use of IT in health and social care is driven by the demand led by patients, clients, consumers and professionals alongside evolving technology.
It has become increasingly necessary for healthcare professionals to acquire skills in the communication of information across a multitude of disciplines, for the safe delivery and steady advancement of health and social care in a digitised environment.
There has been a rapid rise in the adoption of digital technologies, with the potential for permanent transformation of the ways in which we operate, communicate and transfer knowledge.
The COVID-19 pandemic has accelerated this progress ahead of all expectations, highlighting the need for flexibility and drawing attention to the widening digital skills gap, one that needs to be swiftly reduced in order to stimulate economic recovery and prevent social exclusion.
Connectivity and digitalisation will play a hugely important role in our future, with data protection and online security requiring more attention than ever before: trained and competent professionals will ultimately provide the foundation that underpins this progress.
This Digital Health and Social Care (SCQF level 11) module will help you play your part in this development, providing you with the opportunities to explore how digitisation is used to improve health and social care delivery systems, through examples such as videolinks for remote consultations, monitoring systems, apps, and software to support rehabilitation.
You will learn about data security, legislation, patient confidentiality, and the impact of digital connectivity, especially in relation to improving access for those in remote and rural areas.
On successful completion of this module, you will have developed the agility and flexibility needed to keep up with the accelerating pace of technology, with the aim of improving both health care and social care outcomes in the digital environment.
You will study the following topics:
Once you have successfully completed this CPD Award Digital Health and Social Care (SCQF level 11), you might like to consider careers in:
You may wish to progress from CPD Award Digital Health and Social Care (SCQF level 11) to the following course:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/med-digital-pedagogy:
Course code X400
This MEd Digital Pedagogy course is designed to support the professional development of individuals working in education and training at either tertiary or higher education level, specifically in the contemporary digital environment.
The intention is to strengthen and enhance participants' understanding of digital educational issues, whilst raising their professional profiles.
You will be encouraged to discuss and analyse information from a wide range of theoretical perspectives and apply them to your own professional practice.
This will be focused especially on teaching and learning in the digital environment and you will be critically analysing and creating digital educational resources.
You will have the opportunity to focus your studies on an area of professional educational interest, whilst developing research skills and an understanding of ethical principles in higher education.
The course can help you to make changes in your professional practice that can have a positive impact on you and on your learners.
You will study three of the following modules:
To achieve the award of MEd Digital Pedagogy, you must complete a research dissertation.
On successful completion of this course you might like to consider a career in educational training or educational management.
This course can provide a strong base for those wishing to undertake a Doctorate of Education (EdD) or PhD.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-drama-and-production:
Course code W440
Whether you dream of performing to an audience or you'd be happier applying your talents behind the scenes, raise the curtain on your theatrical dreams with this comprehensive, thoughtfully-constructed programme.
Train as a performer, practitioner, producer, or researcher, with a focus on planning, production, and entrepreneurial skills.
Cultivate valuable performance production skills via involvement with in-house productions as well as those from visiting companies.
Access fantastic placements and performance opportunities as a result of the programme’s connections with theatre practitioners and arts centres in the region, and develop a major piece of practice and/or text-based research in your fourth year, drawing on the critical performance and production skills developed throughout the degree.
Year 1 of this course is HNC Acting and Performance , or HNC Musical Theatre .
Year 2 of this course is HND Acting and Performance , or HND Musical Theatre .
Year 1 of this course is one of the following HNCs:
Year 2 of this course is one of the following HNDs:
You will be required to cover any additional travel and accommodation costs for all residencies.
This degree prepares students for careers in a variety of areas relating to drama and theatre, including:
On successful completion of the degree you may wish to consider further postgraduate study or research such as our MRes Creative Practice .
It offered a good blend of independent and supported learning- the modules around directing and the film making placement were perfect for me.
The directing module allowed me to work on my personal relationship with a cast and how to lead a group to the best of their abilities.
Rachel studied BA (Hons) Drama and Production at UHI Inverness.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/pda-eadar-theangachadh-gaidhlig-scqf-level-11:
Course code 019Q
Tha an DLP Eadar-theangachadh Gàidhlig a’ freagairt orrasan a tha ag obair cheana mar eadar-theangaichean is iad airson tuilleadh leasachaidh a dhèanamh air an eòlas, sgilean agus cleachdadh.
Tha e cuideachd freagarrach dhaibhsan aig a bheil ìre àrd de chomas ann an Gàidhlig agus Beurla a tha airson a dhol tron phròiseas a dh’fheumar a leantainn gus a bhith mar eadar-theangaiche comasach a bhiodh ag obair aig ìrean proifeiseanta.
Is iad na prìomh raointean ris am bithear a’ dèiligeadh an lùib na h-obrach ach planaichean Gàidhlig le buidhnean poblach, obair eadar-theangachaidh an lùib nam meadhanan, craoladh agus foillseachadh.
Bhiodh e na bhuannachd nam biodh an teisteanas a leanas agad:
*Teisteanas le Sabhal Mòr Ostaig – nach eil bho SQA
Cuiridh tu crìoch air na h-aonadan a leanas:
Tha an àireamh de dh’uairean a thìde gach seachdain a’ sealltainn nan uairean a thìde gu lèir a bu chòir a bhith ag obair air a' chùrsa, eadar òraidean agus rannsachadh air do cheann fhèin.
Chaidh na h-aonadan anns an DLP Eadar-theangachadh Gàidhlig am mapadh an aghaidh nan Inbhean Obrach Nàiseanta airson Eadar-theangachadh, aonadan PTra3 agus PTra4, a' toirt dhut an cothrom a bhith ag eadar-theangachadh gu proifeiseanta.
Dh'fhaodadh tu beachdachadh air dreuchd eadar-theangachaidh anns na raointean a leanas:
Bhiodh an cothrom aig oileanaich a bhith a’ dol air adhart gu clàradh proifeiseanta.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-early-learning-and-childcare-graduate-apprenticeship:
Course code X311
Are you passionate about improving children's lives?
Do you want to shape the early years of learning in Scotland and develop better practices in all areas of the childcare sector?
The Scottish Government have outlined an ambition to make Scotland the best place for a child to grow up.
They understand that providing the highest quality of childcare and learning from the very beginning is key to laying strong foundations for future generations, and that childcare practitioners are pivotal to the success of that vision.
This course is the first Graduate Apprenticeship in Early Learning and Childcare in Scotland and is unique in its structure and delivery.
The programme offers you and your employer a work-based learning route that is mutually beneficial: your employer benefits from your growing competency and skillset, and you 'earn while you learn', gaining experience in your industry and increasing your potential to progress in your career, while achieving your degree.
This course is ideal for those new to the sector wishing to gain practitioner registration requirements or those currently in the sector wishing to enhance their practitioner skills and knowledge.
Number of hours per week indicates the total number of hours you should dedicate to the course, which includes time spent in lectures, at work and your own time spent on individual study and research.
On completion of this course you can continue to build on your career and will be able to register with Scottish Social Services Council as a Practitioner.
If you wish to pursue a career as a Manager, you may choose to complete 60 credits of level 9 (SCQF) management modules from BA (Hons) Childhood Practice in order to obtain Lead Practitioner qualification.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-early-learning-and-childcare-top-up-one-year-honours:
Course code X312
Have you completed the BA Early Learning and Childcare (Graduate Apprenticeship) ?
This is the only course of its kind and is unique in its structure and delivery, offering an additional honours year on top of the 3-year BA Graduate Apprenticeship, for accreditation at SCQF 10 and allowing progression on to postgraduate studies within UHI or other locations.
The Scottish Government have outlined an ambition to make Scotland the best place for a child to grow up.
This course is designed to support the provision of high-quality childcare and early learning.
This fully online course can be studied from anywhere in the UK.
You will be enrolled and supported by staff at your chosen location.
Once you have successfully completed this course, you may pursue a career as a Practitioner in the childhood and early years sector.
You may wish to progress from BA (Hons) Early Learning and Childcare (top up one-year honours) to the following courses:
For further information on applying for this course, please enquire here

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/mlitt-early-modern-european-studies:
Course code R800
Change your future by examining the past, on our MLitt Early Modern European Studies.
Place yourself at the forefront of early modern research at UHI, debating contemporary research challenges and handling primary source materials which are actively informing our understanding of the early modern past.
Engage with the programme’s research-led teaching, and work in close association with the Renaissance and Early Modern Research Alliance (REMRA), as you explore this fascinating period of history and develop an overarching understanding of the European early modern period, while allowing for your own individual specialisation and interest.
Get special access to the ‘Grand Tour’, a virtual social space where you can connect with others on the programme, take advantage of useful resources, and find out about early modern events.
Take part in weekly live sessions and enjoy opportunities to discuss and debate topics with staff and fellow students.
Enhance your skills in research, critical analysis, presentation, and communication, and get the best start for progression into further studies or careers in a vast range of different professions.
You will study three additional 20 credit modules from the following options:
To achieve the award of MLitt Early Modern European Studies you must also complete a research dissertation.
Full-time: 1 year @ 35 hours per week Part-time: 2 years @ 17.5 hours per week Part-time modular: 12 weeks @ 11.5 hours per week (per module)
You will graduate from this programme with a suite of skills which can be transferred to a range of career paths, such as:
Upon completing the MLitt, you may be interested in pursuing further research with us via our Masters of Research (MRes) or PhD programmes.
For further information, please contact Dr Andrew Lind .

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/beng-hons-electrical-and-electronic-engineering:
Course code H601
Electrical and electronic engineering is a rapidly growing field, with expanding opportunities in practically every product from electrical super-grids to nanoscale bio-electronics.
This course, which is highly industry relevant, will prepare you for a rewarding career in a vast majority of industries, from offshore oil to the National Health Service.
The degree is applications-based, using specialist software, laboratory investigations, and case studies.
It will provide you with the specialist knowledge and broad engineering skills required to find innovative solutions to multiple challenges, ranging from solving the global energy crisis to designing life-saving equipment.
Year 1 of this course is a relevant HNC, such as HNC Engineering (Systems pathway) , HNC Electrical Engineering or HNC Electronic Engineering, with a pass in Engineering Mathematics 2
Year 1 of this course is a relevant HNC, with a pass in Engineering Mathematics 2, such as:
You will also study the following:
and choose one from the following:
You will also choose one from the following:
*available to those who have already achieved level 3 in the same subject
Once you have successfully completed your BEng (Hons) Electrical and Electronic Engineering, you will be ready to compete effectively for jobs as an engineer in a range of industries, including:
Upon successful completion of the BEng (Hons) Electrical and Electronic Engineering graduates can progress onto the following courses:
I have a lot to thank the University of the Highlands and Islands for having first started my engineering journey here completing a college link engineering course when still at school.
This ultimately gave me experience to help gain an apprenticeship and study for my National Certificate all the way through to now graduating with a degree in Electrical and Electronic Engineering.
Liam studied the BEng (Hons) Electrical and Electronic Engineering at UHI North, West and Hebrides.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/beng-hons-electrical-and-mechanical-engineering:
Course code H361
The BEng (Hons) Electrical and Mechanical Engineering has been designed to meet the demand from employers for engineers who have a wide knowledge and skills base covering a range of engineering disciplines, including a sound understanding of relevant technologies and current industry practices.
On completion of the degree you will have acquired advanced levels of competence in engineering and technology, including mechanical, electrical, electronic and management skills, making you highly sought after in the job market.
The broad-based nature of this course will give you many of the necessary skills and competencies required by a range of industries, including the renewable energies sector.
You will also benefit from the strong links established with engineering companies across the Highlands and Islands and from the industry-related project work you will undertake.
Year 1 of this course is a relevant HNC, such as HNC Engineering (Systems pathway) , with a pass in Engineering Mathematics 2
Year 1 of this course is a relevant HNC, with a pass in Engineering Mathematics 2, such as:
You will study two of the following core modules:
Once you have successfully completed your BEng (Hons) Electrical and Mechanical Engineering, you will be ready to compete effectively for a range of jobs within the engineering sector such as:
This ultimately gave me experience to help gain an apprenticeship and study for my National Certificate all the way through to now graduating with a degree.
Liam studied Electrical engineering at UHI North, West and Hebrides.
Being exposed to real-world projects has broadened my experience and has changed the way I approach my university work.
I have been taught to think a different way when tackling a problem.
Having a year in industry gave me a foot in the door and will give me an advantage when applying for jobs.
It also helped me confirm the career I want to pursue.
If you are considering a year in industry, I would say jump at it!
You gain invaluable experience in your field of study while getting paid.
It is a chance to show what you are capable of and if you can impress the company, you may get invited back after your degree.
Darren is an engineering student who completed a year in industry with SSEN Transmission, where he has been offered a job after he graduates.
I studied an engineering course at UHI while at school, which I really enjoyed, and decided to progress onto the degree.
The lecturers were always willing to help when you went to them when you were struggling to follow something, or falling behind on coursework due and would always try and find a way to help you stay on track.
I gained a lot of knowledge and experience.
The lecturers cared and were very understanding.
I am a Maintenance Engineer Trainee for SLB OneSubsea, my studies helped me as they gave me a base knowledge which I could then apply when I started working.
I believe the project classes help give you the chance to use the knowledge you’ve learnt and then apply it to the problem you are solving.
Thalia studied the BEng (Hons) Electrical and Mechanical Engineering at UHI North, West and Highland.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/msc-electrical-engineering:
Course code H103
Are you interested in developing your general engineering knowledge and skills?
If so, this programme could be for you.
The course will develop your understanding of the roles of research, design, analysis and optimisation in advanced engineering careers.
You will gain the knowledge and understanding to apply existing and emerging technology and gain the appropriate theoretical and practical methods to design, develop, manufacture, construct, commission, operate and maintain engineering products, processes, systems and services.
Specialist modules will allow you to pursue areas of particular interest to you and may include: study of advanced electrical engineering topics such as high speed integrated circuitry, high frequency, and neural networks; study of the application of electrical engineering software analysis packages such as MATLAB or SIMULINK; study of advanced applications of mathematical solutions for engineering problems such as transfer function approaches, state space methodology and stability analyses; application of optimisation approaches to the design of electrical engineering systems; and an electrical engineering design project.
This programme has been accredited by the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET) as meeting the UK Engineering Council requirements for the Further Learning portion of Chartered Engineer (CEng) professional registration.
In order to meet the educational requirements in full for Chartered Engineer registration, graduates will also need to present an accredited level 6 qualification or equivalent, and meet specific membership and professional achievement criteria specific to the professional body through which application for professional registration is made.
Direct progression from our own degrees:
You will study three core modules which may include:
You will choose three option modules which may include:
To achieve the award of MSc you must successfully complete a research project/dissertation.
This may be coordinated and conducted in conjunction with your employer and must be in an area of specialisation within the field of electrical engineering.
On successful completion, you will have acquired the general and specialist engineering knowledge, understanding and skills that are relevant to employment within the engineering industry, specifically the electrical engineering field.
You will also have developed essential employability skills enhancing your opportunities for relevant careers in the industries such as:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/beng-hons-energy-engineering:
Course code H801
If you are interested in the role energy has to play in the future of engineering, the BEng (Hons) Energy Engineering degree is for you.
The degree has been designed to meet the needs of the industry, ensuring you will be highly employable after graduation.
You will explore both conventional energy systems and renewable energy technologies.
You will also undertake an engineering project, which will showcase your skills and knowledge in solving an industry-related problem to prospective employers.
Once you have successfully completed your BEng (Hons) Energy Engineering, you will be ready to compete in the employment market for a range of jobs in the engineering sector such as:
Upon successful completion of the BSc (Hons) Mechanical Engineering, you may wish to progress onto:
I gained a range of knowledge which has helped me in my career and provided a grounds for different areas.
I've found that the real learning happens in the workplace, when you are using equipment, fault finding and digging deeper into system and this would not be possible without the foundations built from UHI.
I currently work as a Maintenance Technician at Siemens Gamesa on an offshore windfarm.
I wanted to get involved in the renewable sector, and I go offshore to carry out work on wind turbines.
Being able to get my degree whilst working full time and living at home allowed me to have amazing holidays and experiences which I wouldn’t have had if I moved away for university.
Chloe studied the BEng (Hons) Energy Engineering at UHI North, West and Hebrides.
I considered other universities but knew UHI through doing a previous course at UHI and not having to move out of the highlands made it very attractive.
My studies have helped me get into engineering- I have already achieved a position with SSE for after I graduate!
The staff at the UHI are incredibly supportive and are always happy to make time for you, my PAT has taken time to ensure that I have been supported.
Charlotte studied the BEng (Hons) Energy Engineering at UHI Inverness.
I chose UHI because it allowed me to stay at home close to family and friends whilst I studied.
I had also had some friends study engineering degrees with UHI and had seen them go on to success so I thought it was a good choice for me.
I have nothing but positive things to say about the lecturers I had.
Classes were a mixture of in-person at my home campus and online.
As I progressed to later years, more and more classes became online.
This wasn’t an issue, I could go to the campus whenever I felt like or needed to and the rest of the time I had the flexibility to study wherever I was at the time.
I also found that lecturers were by in large responsive to emails and would engage as much as I needed to learn the coursework.
Lecturers were happy to discuss course material in detail at any time they were available and were also willing to share their experiences of working which were invaluable for setting me up for the world of professional working.
My favourite thing about studying at UHI has been the flexibility and being able to stay at home with my friends and family while getting my degree.
The Western Isles where I live is such an unique place, and staying there has meant I can stay in touch with the culture I grew up in.
Calum studied the BEng (Hons) Energy Engineering at UHI North, West and Hebrides.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/cpd-award-energy-modelling-for-buildings-scqf-level-11:
Course code F85EM
Are you planning to retrofit your house to be more energy efficient but not sure where to start?
Perhaps you're a professional in architecture, the built environment, or building regulations, and keen to understand more about how this subject impacts your projects?
Whether your interest is personal or professional, gain comprehensive knowledge and expertise in the energy performance of buildings on this CPD Energy Modelling for Buildings at SCQF level 11.
With extensive, in-depth information on UK building regulations and PassivHaus standards, learn how to estimate the energy budget of buildings through state-of-the-art software, and find out how to improve their energy efficiency.
Explore a comprehensive range of topics on energy building, such as: calculation of U values and surface temperature; thermal bridges; insulation; ventilation; overheating risk; space heating systems; and buildings performance.
You may wish to progress from CPD Energy Modelling for Buildings (SCQF level 11) to the following courses:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/cpd-award-energy-climate-and-carbonscqf-level-11:
Course code F85EC
Are you fascinated by the concept of Earth’s energy budget?
Do you want to understand how it dictates the resources available for human use and the sustainability of our future energy systems?
Explore the intimate links between energy, climate, and carbon on our planet in this SCQF level 11 CPD award.
Survey these three primary resources as you learn about energy use and land management choices, particularly in the context of climate change and the increasing demands being placed on Earth's resources, and develop your understanding of how liveable conditions depend on these connections.
Join this specialist course and gain an extensive knowledge on the mechanisms behind climate change and greenhouse effects, the role played by the carbon exchange, and the climatic impact of our energy systems and demand.
You may wish to progress from this CPD Award to the following courses:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/msc-engineering-general:
Course code H104
Specialist modules in a variety of multi-disciplinary engineering topics from mechanical, electrical and civil engineering may be selected based on your own interests.
This may be coordinated and conducted in conjunction with your employer in an area of specialisation within the field of mechanical, electrical or civil engineering.
On successful completion, you will have acquired the general engineering knowledge, understanding and skills along with your own tailored specialist interests, that are relevant to employment within the engineering industry.
You will also have developed essential employability skills enhancing your opportunities for relevant careers in the industries such as:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/pda-engineering-scqf-level-7:
Course code 201H
This PDA Engineering (SCQF level 7) is ideal if you have recently left school or college, or are currently in employment, and wish to obtain a formal qualification to enhance your engineering knowledge.
The units will enable you to gain the practical and inter-personal skills needed to work successfully within the engineering sector and as part of the 21st century economy.
On completion of this PDA Engineering (SCQF level 7), you may choose to pursue an apprenticeship (this qualification can also help with credit transfer on these programs).
You may wish to progress from PDA Engineering (SCQF level 7) to the following courses:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnc-engineering-systems-pathway:
Course code 406H
This HNC Engineering (Systems pathway) will give you the required technical training to be a technician in design, research, development and service support activities in engineering, manufacturing and consultancy.
You may also be able to use the HNC as a spring-board into the second year of our engineering degrees, including: BEng (Hons) Electrical and Electronic Engineering ; BEng (Hons) Electrical and Mechanical Engineering ; BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering ; or BEng (Hons) Energy Engineering .
You may wish to progress to year 2 of the HND Engineering Systems , or you may be eligible to progress to year 2 of one of the following courses:
This course was right for me because I wanted to do a degree, and also wanted to gain work experience, with the flexibility and variety of courses that UHI offer.
I like how laid-back it is but also that lecturers are always willing to take time to explain things in more detail, and always give good feedback.
I like that I am able to do a mixture of practical, lab based classes alongside theory.
My favourite thing about UHI is that everyone is very welcoming and it is a nice, friendly environment.
Neve studied the HNC Engineering Systems at UHI Inverness.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnc-engineering-systems:
Course code 356H
The HNC Engineering Systems will give you the required technical training to be a technician in design, research, development and service support activities in engineering, manufacturing and consultancy.
You may also be able to use the HNC as a spring-board into the second year of our engineering degrees, including: BEng (Hons) Electrical and Electronic Engineering ; BEng (Hons) Electrical and Mechanical Engineering ; BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering ; or BEng (Hons) Energy Engineering .
Option units may include:
Option units available may vary depending on study location and mode of study: for more information contact your chosen campus .
This course prepares you for a variety of jobs in engineering, including:
You can progress to year two of the HND Engineering Systems .
You may also be eligible to progress to the second year of:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnd-engineering-systems:
Course code 056H
This multidisciplinary course, consisting of a range of mechanical, electrical and systems units, is designed for maximum flexibility and develops the knowledge and skills gained from the HNC Engineering Systems .
For entry to year 1 ( HNC Engineering Systems ):
For direct entry to year 2 (HND):
Year 1 of this course is the HNC Engineering Systems .
This course prepares you for a variety of jobs at technical level in engineering, including:
You may be able to progress to the third year of the following degrees:
Neve studied engineering systems at UHI Inverness.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/beng-hons-engineering-systems-graduate-apprenticeship:
Course code H107
Are you ready to unlock your career potential while earning a wage?
Do you want to build your skills and gain a degree without leaving the workplace?
If you're already working in an engineering environment, this Graduate Apprenticeship in BEng (Hons) Engineering Systems is a great next step in your professional journey.
The engineering industry is constantly evolving, with new technologies, materials, and a growing emphasis on sustainability.
This means employers are looking for engineers who not only have up-to-date technical knowledge, but who can also think across disciplines and adapt to change.
This exciting new programme combines higher education with hands-on vocational learning, offering you the opportunity to earn a degree that is grounded in real-world experience.
We take a systems-based, multi-disciplinary approach, designed to help you meet the demands of your role, helping you enhance your existing knowledge, grow your practical skills, and develop into a well-rounded engineer, while applying the skills you acquire directly in your workplace.
Whether you're an engineer in training or an employer looking to invest in your workforce, this programme offers an ideal way to upskill yourself or your staff with an industry-relevant qualification that supports both learning and productivity.
Advanced entry to year 2 may be available with:
Advanced entry to year 3 may be available with:
You may wish to progress from this BEng (Hons) Engineering Systems (Graduate Apprenticeship) to one of  the following courses:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/msc-environmental-archaeology:
Course code V46E
Are you passionate about uncovering the stories of the past through environmental archaeology?
This programme is designed to help you build not just an advanced understanding of the field, but the real-world, professional skills you'll need for a rewarding career in archaeology and related sectors.
Take advantage of hands-on, practical training with deeper exploration of the theories and methods that shape the discipline today.
Develop research and industry-ready skills in areas like field investigation, archaeobotany, zooarchaeology, soil micromorphology and osteoarchaeology, all skills that employers are actively looking for.
What makes this programme truly special is the chance to learn in Orkney, a place of extraordinary archaeological significance.
Here, the landscape itself becomes your laboratory, giving you unparalleled opportunities to gain practical experience while working on some of the world’s most iconic archaeological sites.
As part of the course, you’ll also have the chance to complete a 60-credit placement, giving you valuable on-the-ground experience in a professional setting.
Or, if you prefer, you can opt for a research-based dissertation that’s firmly rooted in vocational skills and industry relevance.
If you’re looking for a course that’s as practical as it is inspiring, and that opens doors to the archaeology career you’ve been dreaming of, we’d love to have you join us.
You will study one or both of the following core modules:
You will also study one or two of the following optional modules:
*core for those wishing to do a dissertation at MSc level
To achieve the award of MSc you must complete the six modules for the PgCert and PgDip, plus one of the following:
Optional modules which have a substantial residential element, such as Excavation, will incur additional costs associated with travel and accommodation.
You will be expected to meet all costs associated with these optional modules.
You are also expected to purchase your own basic equipment and protective clothing/footwear, to enable working outdoors on archaeological fieldwork projects and to participate in fieldtrips.
For information about further study options, please see our range of postgraduate research degrees : MRes, MPhil and PhD.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/bsc-hons-environmental-science:
Course code F900
Are you passionate about understanding the processes that shape all aspects of our natural environment?
Perhaps you've already spent time in the industry and now you're ready to focus your energies into a more specific area of the environmental sciences?
Explore your fascination with the world around us on our 4-year BSc (Hons) Environmental Science, with amazing opportunities to pursue your specific interests via our Environmental Biology and Environmental Science with Archaeology pathways.
You won’t find a better classroom in which to study than the Highlands and Islands of Scotland.
With outstanding locations such as the newly inscribed Flow Country World Heritage Site (the first peatland World Heritage Site), Cairngorms National Park, and many more, we have, undeniably, one of the world’s best ‘living laboratories’, all set in the spectacular natural habitat of the Scottish Highlands.
Develop core scientific and analytical skills through your course work, with access to specialist and state-of-the-art laboratory facilities across the university network.
During each year of study you will have the opportunity to choose modules with lab and field residentials at a variety of locations throughout the region, including an international field trip in year 2.
These modules are a key part of the course, allowing you to develop your lab and field skills while working in some of the most outstanding habitats in Scotland and Iceland.
For a 5-year study option that includes a 1-year industry work placement, please see our BSc (Hons) Environmental Science (with a year in industry) .
You will also pick from the below core modules depending on your pathway: Environmental Biology/Environmental Science pathways
Environmental Science with Archaeology**
You will also pick one of the following options:
Environmental Biology/Environmental Science pathways You will also study the following core modules:
Environmental Science with Archaeology** You will also study the following core modules:
Environmental Biology pathway You will study the following core modules:
Environmental Science pathway You will study the following core modules:
Environmental Science with Archaeology pathway** You will study the following core modules:
*Not available to international students on this pathway **Environmental Science with Archaeology pathway is not available to International students requiring a visa to study in the UK
Once you have successfully completed your BSc (Hons) Environmental Science course, you might like to consider a career with:
You can progress from the BSc (Hons) Environmental Science degree to the following postgraduate courses:
I knew this was the right course for me as I could learn from fantastic lecturers in good laboratories with high-spec equipment.
The practical skills taught during field trips have already secured me an industry placement.
I learnt a lot about the sector I hope to work in once I graduate.
My favourite thing about UHI is the people!
It’s a tight-knit community, and you really get to know each other while studying.
Being so close to nature and being able to stay close to family are also great things about living in the Highlands and Islands.
Hannah studied the BSc (Hons) Environmental Science at UHI Inverness.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/bsc-hons-environmental-science-with-a-year-in-industry:
Course code F901
Would you like to spend a year of your studies in a supported industry placement, learning the practical applications of environmental science in real-time?
Join our 5-year BSc (Hons) Environmental Science (with a year in industry), with amazing opportunities to pursue your specific interests via our Environmental Biology pathway, and spend 1 year working alongside industry professionals, developing invaluable expertise, adding to your CV, and improving your career prospects as you prepare for employment.
For a 4-year study option without the 1-year industry placement, please see our BSc (Hons) Environmental Science .
*Not available to international students on this pathway
The above only applies to academic years but you should expect to work full-time (35-40 hours) during your year in industry.
Scottish students can apply to the Students Award Agency for Scotland (SAAS) to be assessed for eligibility to have their tuition fees paid by the Scottish Government.
Honours year free only for students studying full-time, on continuous study, who have paid for the previous years at the University of the Highlands and Islands.
This course is not currently available for international students (including EU/EEA and Swiss nationals without settled status in the UK) requiring Student Route visa sponsorship to study here.
Once you have successfully completed this BSc (Hons) Environmental Science (with a year in industry), you might like to consider the following careers:
You may wish to progress from the BSc (Hons) Environmental Science degree to the following courses:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/cpd-award-epidemiology-and-surveillance-of-healthcare-acquired-infections-scqf-level-11:
Course code B99E
Surveillance and investigation of cases or outbreaks of infectious disease within the population is a key function of the prevention and control of infection.
Anyone working in this field should have an awareness of the routine data available, its limitations and how it might best be used to influence practice.
Using current examples of outbreaks across the world, the CPD Award Epidemiology and Surveillance of Healthcare Acquired Infections is a master’s level module, introducing the concepts of epidemiology, surveillance, statistics and how to use data to inform infection prevention and control.
You will develop practical, statistical and critical analysis skills that you can apply directly to your workplace.
Who should apply?
For more details or informal discussion about the module, please contact: MSc.ic@uhi.ac.uk
Recognised European or international equivalent qualifications are considered.
If English is not your first language, you must have evidence of your English language skills.
All non-UK students must have one of the three options below:
The module will cover:
You will have regular tutorials, in addition to online study via the university's virtual learning environment (VLE), with support from your tutors.
You may wish to supplement this CPD Award with further modules from the MSc Infection Prevention and Control Programme, to complete a Post Graduate Certificate.
These would include:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/pda-equine-breeding-scqf-level-7:
Course code 324D
Do you have a passion for horses?
Could you use your empathetic nature to care for them through every stage of the breeding experience, ensuring their safety and welfare always remain top priority?
Whether you already work in a stud, or it's the next step in your equine career as an owner or aspiring stud hand, join this highly flexible, dedicated course and gain the skills needed to provide an excellent level of equine breeding care.
Work with broodmares, youngstock, and stallions as you gain experience in: basic horse handling; feeding and nutrition; cleaning and maintaining stables, paddocks, and equipment; cleaning and maintaining tack and equipment; and maintenance of the yard and property.
In addition, learn about: basic exercising; operating machinery and equipment; basic equine first aid; how to assist Vets and Farriers; holding broodmares in the covering shed; assisting with Artificial Insemination (AI); stallion handling; and “foaling-watch”.
Enjoy excellent opportunities to work with a range of horses and their experienced stud teams, either at our Rural Studies Centre in Halkirk, or through our partnerships with a selection of equine yards throughout many areas in Scotland, including Inverness-shire, Caithness, Stornoway, Aberdeenshire, Angus, Isle of Skye, Inverurie, Elgin, Benbecula, Brora, North Ballachulish, Fife, Orkney, Gairloch (subject to change and availability).
Let us support you as you pursue your equine ambitions, developing your practical and theoretical experience and knowledge as you take your next steps in this vital and satisfying field.
You will be expected to wear clothing that's suitable for yard work and will also be responsible for any travel costs to the equine centre or yard where you undertake your practical training.
Once you have successfully completed this course, you will have the skills to work:
You may wish to progress from PDA Equine Breeding (SCQF level 7) to the following courses:
For more information, or to begin the application process for this course, please email info.nwh@uhi.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-equine-business-management:
Course code D4N2
The BA (Hons) Equine Business Management programme will introduce you to all aspects of today’s modern equine business.
It will help equip you with the skills you need for a career in equine business management including marketing, research, and sports science, as well as specific equine modules such as: equine selection; equine business management; equitation; work placement; current issues and legislation in the equine industry; equine behaviour; equine anatomy, physiology and health; and equine fitness, nutrition and welfare.
Additionally, this programme is endorsed by the British Horse Society and we offer free training towards BHS exams.
You will undertake project work where you will investigate real-life situations, which will enable you to put what you have learned into practice.
You may also have the opportunity to take part in equestrian events and activities organised throughout the year.
Guest speakers and the use of equine evidence-based research will ensure you have access to relevant and current industry information.
This programme offers unique flexibility: you can choose a riding or non-riding route (or a mixture of both) and enjoy access to our equine campus, horses and staff, or you may choose a remote study option, coming to us for blocks of time or using your own training centre at your own expense.
Entry to year one (CertHE):
Advanced entry to year three of the degree:
Core modules are: Semester 1
You will also choose four option modules which may include: Semester 1
You will also choose three option modules which may include: Semester 1
You can choose to study this course:
Non-riding route Fully online, on-campus or from your own location:
Riding routes In-person, on-campus:
Online, with intensive sessions on-campus:
Online, from your own location:
There could be additional student costs for remote study, working with an accredited coach and optional work placements depending on location of placement.
A degree in Equine Business Management will provide you with excellent career prospects.
Endorsed by the British Horse Society as training towards BHS exams, this award enables you to develop knowledge and skills highly valued by employers.
Graduates could anticipate going on to jobs in public, private and voluntary organisations, taking on such roles as:
You will also have the potential to become a local entrepreneur, with business start-ups in the equine, tourism and business sectors.
An honours degree may be used as a pathway to postgraduate study, such as a PgCert Equine Leadership and Management , or PhD study.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnc-equine-studies:
Course code 624D
If you love horses and would like to make a career out of working with them, the HNC Equine Studies at our Rural Studies Centre in Halkirk is the course for you.
You will learn the theoretical knowledge and practical skills required to be able to work with horses to a high standard.
You will also be prepared for your BHS exams.
On completion of your course you might like to consider roles in equine retail, equine facilities, studwork or as a competition groom in equine and leisure, either at home or abroad.
You can progress to the BA (Hons) Equine Business Management at UHI North, West and Hebrides.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/cpd-award-exploring-and-developing-palliative-and-end-of-life-care-scqf-level-7:
Course code PAL
This CPD Award in palliative and end of life care has been designed to meet the continuous professional development needs of health and social care staff.
The content will help to provide and strengthen the knowledge and skills required by staff to provide high-quality care and support to people with palliative and end of life care needs, their families and carers.
The content of the course is based on the NHS Education for Scotland Palliative and End of Life Care Framework at Skilled Level.
The course will be delivered through online learning using the university's virtual learning environment.
This type of delivery gives flexible access to study and can, therefore, fit around work and personal commitments.
The content of the course covers the following areas:
Ireland, including Channel Islands and the Isle of Man), or assessed as rest of the UK for fee status, the following fees apply:
This course is not available for international students, including EU/EEA and Swiss nationals without settled status in the UK, requiring Student Route visa sponsorship to study here, and cannot be studied outside of the UK.
Once you have successfully completed this course you will have the knowledge and skill to help enhance practice in palliative and end of life care.
You may wish to continue with studies using this credit towards an undergraduate degree such as BA (Hons) Health and Social Studies .

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/msc-extreme-weather:
Course code F855
Extreme weather events are increasing in both intensity and frequency across the globe, many of an unprecedented severity.
Advances in recent scientific understanding over the past decade confirm that such extreme events are attributable to global warming and would be statistically impossible without anthropogenic climate change.
Knowledge of extreme climate and hazards will only become more vital in both public and private arenas: could you become one of the experts that the world looks to for answers?
Learn to predict, assess, and respond to the challenges faced by this ever-changing phenomenon, on our MSc Extreme Weather, the first postgraduate qualification of its kind in Scotland.
Develop your skills as a future climate scientist and natural hazard expert, on this in-depth and illuminating course.
Strengthen your ability to provide informed, scientific engagement and learn how to improve public awareness of weather and climate hazards with tools such as weather warning systems.
Gain a greater understanding of the individual impacts of new, unprecedented, extreme events on human-induced climate change and assess the impact of rapidly increasing costs as a result of disasters.
If you’re already involved in the renewables sector, or the implementation and management of sustainable development, and seeking to pursue professional development, or if your ambition is to work in these sectors in the future, join this dynamic and highly relevant course and become part of the solution that future generations are relying on.
You will study 3 of the following optional modules:
To achieve the award of MSc Extreme Weather, you will complete a 15,000 word research dissertation on a topic of your own choice.
Number of hours per week indicates the total number of hours you should dedicate to the course.
This includes time online to view weekly lectures and other online materials, to participate in module discussion boards, and your own time spent on individual study and research.
You may wish to progress from this MSc Extreme Weather into academia, research, or pursuit of a PhD or Postgraduate Doctorate.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/pda-financial-accounting-scqf-level-7:
Course code 94N4
These 'mini' HE Accounting awards are made up of four HN units which can either be completed as stand-alone awards, or can be built on and lead to full HNC awards.
PDAs are nationally-recognised qualifications, which can help to enhance the career prospects of candidates.
On-campus attendance is required at classes on a part-time basis.
On completion of the PDA Financial Accounting, you may consider an accounting or business role.
Former students have secured roles in management and business organisations.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-fine-art:
Course code W100
If you want to study contemporary art and would like to develop your creative skills in a vibrant and challenging environment, the BA (Hons) Fine Art degree is for you.
You’ll be taught by a highly-experienced team of visual practitioners, who will support you to explore and experiment with a range of fine art media such as painting, digital imaging, photography, drawing, spatial studies, printmaking, and textiles.
You will also have support from academics who will help you to write about your own work and that of other artists, whilst also establishing an awareness of industry and sector professionalism.
With access to your own studio space and specialist equipment, you can be confident that you will have all the necessary resources at hand.
In addition, small class sizes mean that you will always have regular contact with staff and can tap in to their professional knowledge and expertise so that you can develop to your full potential.
Alternatively, there are portfolio access courses available at:
You will also choose 4 of the following optional modules:
You will also choose one optional module which may include the following:
*Durations/times are approximate
The university has a £1000 award available to one Fine Art student annually, to assist with the purchase of items and/or materials necessary to do their course - Barns-Graham Assistance Award .
In addition, the Barns-Graham Travel Scholarship is an annual scholarship worth £1,500, awarded to a BA (Hons) Fine Art student or graduate (within one year of graduation), for project research requiring travel abroad.
Once you have successfully completed your BA (Hons) Fine Art course, you might like to consider a career as a commercial artist, community practitioner, lecturer, or teacher.
Your skills will also be highly desirable in the arts and creative-related employment sectors.
You may be able to progress from the BA (Hons) Fine Art to a relevant Masters course, such as our MA Art and Social Practice , MA Contemporary Art and Archaeology , or MA in Creativity, Leadership and Enterprise .
Alternatively, you may wish to embark on further training in the fields of art therapy or entrepreneurship.
This course was right for me because I could work in a self-directed way, allowing me to combine my university work and personal practice.
I think the lecturers were the best, they really paid attention to each student's needs and always went above and beyond.
Lecturer's wealth of knowledge and experience was only ever a question or email away.
I feel my studies propelled me forward and made me love academia through my love of art!
Studying with UHI changed my life for the better, I started studying school, and I’m here 8 years later with a first class degree.
I would absolutely recommend UHI to anyone!
It’ll give you direction that feels true to yourself and change your life forever.
Elouise studied the BA (Hons) Fine Art at UHI Shetland.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnc-fitness-health-and-exercise:
Course code 206C
If you have a passion for health and fitness and would like to teach others the benefits of a healthy lifestyle, the HNC Fitness, Health and Exercise* will give you the appropriate skills and training to work in a range of roles within the health and fitness industry.
The course will introduce you to the fundamental principles of training and science; the interdisciplinary nature of fitness and exercise; and how to involve individuals in their own fitness and health.
On completion of your course you might want to consider employment as a fitness instructor, exercise teacher, fitness adviser or gym supervisor; independently or in a leisure centre, gym or health club.
On successful completion of the HNC Fitness, Health and Exercise, you may be able to progress to the second year of the HND Fitness, Health and Exercise .

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnd-fitness-health-and-exercise:
Course code 006C
The HND Fitness, Health and Exercise* is designed to build on the HNC award and develop your skills and knowledge.
You will advance your study of fitness, health and exercise activities and related areas, specifically increasing awareness of the interdisciplinary nature of fitness and health and developing an understanding of the need to involve participants fully in their own fitness and health development.
You will be able to give ownership of programmes to individuals, enabling optimum customer service and developing and applying transferable exercise skills with specific populations.
Entry to Year 1 of this course, HNC:
Year 1 of the HND is the HNC Fitness Health and Exercise .
On completion of your course you might want to consider the following employment opportunities:
Opportunities also exist within the NHS and private training providers, as well as self-employment.
On successful completion of the HND Fitness, Health and Exercise, you may be able to progress to the third year of the BSc (Hons) Sport and Fitness or the BA (Hons) Sports Management .

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/med-foghlam-gaidhlig:
Course code Q539
Tha am prògram gu lèir air a lìbhrigeadh tro mheadhan na Gàidhlig, a leigeas le com-pàirtichean an cuid sgilean litearrachd sa Ghàidhlig a leasachadh fhad is a tha iad a’ toirt an cuid eòlas proifeiseanta, tuigse is sgilean air foghlam Gàidhlig am feabhas.
’S ann air na leanas a bhios am prògram stèidhichte:
Tha am prògram MEd stèidhichte air modalan ceumnach a leigeas le com-pàirtichean togail gu leantainneach air an eòlas stèidhichte aca.
Tha an ceum a’ tighinn gu crìch le sgrùdadh deireannach an neach-cleachdaidh a th’ air a dhealbhadh airson leigeil le com-pàirtichean an cuid eòlais, sgilean is tuigse phroifeiseanta, a tha iad air leasachadh tron phrògram, a chur gu feum airson taic a chumail ri leasachadh san t-suidheachadh obrach aca fhèin.
Inntrigeadh adhartach:
Seo na prìomh mhodalan:
Thèid agaibh air fear de na modalan roghainneil seo a dhèanamh:
Seallaidh an àireamh de dh’uairean gach seachdain an ùine a bu choir dhuibh a chur seachad air obair a’ chùrsa, a’ gabhail a-steach òraidean agus an ùine agaibh fhèin a chosgas sibh air ionnsachadh pearsanta agus rannsachadh.
Airson an t-Sultain 2022, tha an MEd Foghlam Gàidhlig air a mhaoineachadh le Riaghaltas na h-Alba, mar sin cha bhi cìsean oideachaidh ri pàigheadh le oileanaich.
Tha ion-roghnachd a’ chùrsa seo stèidhichte air clàradh le Comhairle Choitcheann Teagaisg na h-Alba (GTCS).
Tha an cùrsa seo air a làn-mhaoineachadh le Riaghaltas na h-Alba.
Thèid agaibh ri latha aghaidh-ri-aghaidh a fhrithealadh aig Sabhal Mòr Ostaig san t-Sultain aig toiseach gach bliadhna acadaimigich.
Bidh agaibh fhèin ri cosgaisean siubhail a phàigheadh.
Cuiridh am program seo gu mòr ris an ionnsachadh phroifeiseanta agaibh mar thidsear.
Faodaidh sibh leantainn oirbh bhon a’ phrògram seo chun a’ chùrsa a leanas:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-food-nutrition-and-textiles-education:
Course code X134
The Food, Nutrition and Textiles Education degree is aimed at those wishing to pursue a career as a Home Economics teacher in a secondary school.
This contemporary programme is unique in Scotland as it combines academic study in food, nutrition, textiles and education with vocational training as a teacher in secondary schools within the four-year programme of study.
The programme has two pathways:
Important: Please read our FAQ sheet before applying to this programme
Full four-year degree route:
HNC Route: see HNC Professional Cookery
Four-year degree route - core modules are:
Click here for further information on the HNC Professional Cookery route.
You will also complete a dissertation or research project (double-credit)
Once you have successfully completed this course you will be offered an induction year teaching post within the home economics department of a secondary school.
You will also be qualified and competent to consider a number of food or hospitality industry-specific roles or you may consider an option to start up your own business.
Students from non-EU countries are not eligible to join the TIS, but you can follow the Flexible Route to complete your probationary service if you are able to remain in Scotland on completion of your studies.
UHI will be offering a new MEd from 2026/27 with a wide range of content to support your professional learning throughout your teaching career.
I had looked at other universities, but this degree was closer to home and the course offered at UHI was more appropriate to the career I wanted to pursue.
This course was tailor-made for aspiring teachers of Home Economics, so it was absolutely the correct decision for me to apply for it for my desired career path.
My degree program was focused on training aspiring Home Economics Teachers, so I was fortunate to experience six different student placements during my four years of study.
Student placements was possibly my favourite aspect of the entire degree program because it gave me classroom experience across four different local authorities as well as the private sector.
I was given fantastic support throughout my student career in an inclusive, unintimidating learning environment.
I really liked that, the student experience had almost one-to-one support, with lecturers getting to know you on a more personal level.
Kyle studied the BA (Hons) Food, Nutrition and Textiles Education at UHI Perth.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/cpd-award-forest-kindergarten-scqf-level-7:
Course code 97X3
This National Workplace Award is suitable for qualified early learning practitioners, early years workers, managers, teachers, third sector workers, and others who wish to organise and supervise regular off-site visits to woodland and green spaces for children in their care.
Accredited through the SQA, the award recognises the value of woodlands as an integral part of the learning process for pre-school children and covers the knowledge, understanding and skills needed to develop a forest kindergarten.
On successful completion of the course, you will develop your knowledge, skills, and confidence to plan and lead forest activities.
This is a Level 7 SQA Award with 4 SCQF points.
It consists of one unit with three outcomes:
Once you have successfully completed this award you will be able to plan and deliver outdoor activities using a forest kindergarten approach.
Outdoor learning not only improves mental wellbeing and health and fitness, it can make a huge difference to children's confidence levels and their ability to risk assess while encouraging a lifelong love of the outdoors.
Maree Todd MSP, Minister for Childcare and Early Years

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnc-forestry:
Course code 105D
﻿The HNC Forestry will give you the skills, knowledge and experience required to succeed as a supervisor or self-employed contractor in the forestry industry.
Subjects include: forest science; establishment of woodlands; forest harvesting; forest mensuration and thinning control; timber sales and transportation; and woodland nursery production.
You will need to purchase your own high vis vest, hard hat and safety boots, at an approximate cost of £40 in total.
There are additional costs associated with the Scottish Borders and South of England field trips, however students via the Forestry and Arboriculture Society normally fundraise and seek sponsorship to cover these costs.
On completion of your course you may be interested in pursuing a career as a forest supervisor/foreman or contractor.
On successful completion of this course, you can progress to year two of the BSc (Hons) Forest Management .

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/pda-forestry-scqf-level-7:
Course code 90D5
This course is suitable for those already working in the industry who would like to increase their background understanding of the subject, or who are interested in working in the sector but would like to know more.
It will help to supply the specific niche markets of forestry supervisors and forest managers, as well as opening up wider employment opportunities within the land-based sector and beyond.
The course comprises practical exercises to build up knowledge, understanding and analysis skills for the working environment, alongside research and evaluative skills for management.
Learning is therefore through practical exercises relevant to the work situation.
There are two field weeks required for this course.
Please contact the relevant UHI partner campus for more information.
On successful completion of this course you may be interested in pursuing further studies at HNC/D level, or supervisory work within the sector.
On successful completion of this course you can progress to the HNC Forestry and then on to the BSC (Hons) Forest Management .

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/bsc-hons-forestry-and-treescapes-management:
Course code D500
If you're looking for a rewarding career, where you can provide professional advice to the land-based forestry sector and help secure our forests for future generations to enjoy, then this course is for you.
Being involved in the forestry sector is one of the best ways of helping the fight against climate change, while working in environments that provide recreational and well-being spaces for all.
Our BSc (Hons) Forestry and Treescapes Management is a highly practical course that will give you all the skills and knowledge you need to become a successful forest manager, environmental manager or arboriculturist/urban forester.
Study at the Scottish School of Forestry campus, Inverness, situated within 10 hectares of woodland and an additional 100 hectares of FLS woodland serving the surrounding communities, providing a beautiful setting to learn about forests, trees and the environment.
This innovative new work-based degree allows you to continue working full/part-time within the forestry/environmental sector while undertaking a full-time degree alongside your role, using work-based learning to fulfil the credit and learning requirements.
If you’re not currently working within the sector, you will study scenarios provided by the course team to recreate situations that may be experienced in a work setting.
A significant proportion of your course will be fieldwork-based projects where you will become experienced in the practical aspects of forest management and arboriculture.
When you graduate you will have a technical management qualification and be experienced in all aspects of sustainable and current management of forests, trees and wider environment.
Advanced entry to year 2 of the BSc:
This course is accredited by the Institute of Chartered Foresters and gives partial fulfilment of Professional Membership Entry
You will also choose from 3 elective modules equating to 20 credits:
You will choose from the following elective modules equating to 20 credits:
Number of hours per week indicates the total number of hours you should dedicate to the course, which includes time spent in lectures, experiential and work-based learning, and your own time spent on individual study and research.
The course includes several field trips, including residentials and an optional international field trip module to Iceland.
There are additional costs associated with the Scottish Borders and South of England field trips, however students normally fundraise and seek sponsorship to cover these costs via the Forestry and Arboriculture Society.
Once you have successfully completed your BSc (Hons) Forestry and Treescapes Management course, you might like to consider careers in:
You can progress from the BSc (Hons) Forestry and Treescapes Management to:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/cpd-award-foundation-in-medical-aesthetics-scqf-level-11:
Course code B901
Are you already working in aesthetics and ready to deepen your expertise?
Our Foundation in Medical Aesthetics CPD (SCQF level 11 - equivalent to RQF level 7) is designed with you in mind: a dedicated professional looking to elevate your practice with confidence and credibility.
This innovative programme gives you the chance to build on your existing clinical knowledge, while expanding your ability to apply evidence-based practice in your unique care setting.
You'll gain a strong theoretical foundation to support safe, ethical, and effective consultations, even in complex clinical situations.
With expert staff who bring real-world experience and clinical insight, you’ll be learning from those who’ve walked the path before you.
Whether you're looking to refine your consultation skills or better understand the skin and common conditions, this module sets the stage for meaningful growth and career progression in medical aesthetics.
You will study the following subjects on this module:
Successful completion of this course will strengthen your knowledge and practices in your existing career in medical aesthetics.
You may wish to progress from CPD Foundation in Medical Aesthetics (SCQF level 11) to our CPD Prescribing for Healthcare Professionals (SCQF level 11) .

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-gaelic:
Course code Q531
Discover more about Gaelic society and its origins whilst gaining a high level of fluency in the Gaelic language, on our lively BA (Hons) Gaelic course.
Join the only course offering an immersive degree programme in Scottish Gaelic, with the option to pursue a BA (Hons) Gaelic with Development from year 3.
Explore the past, present and future of the Gaelic language, based in the Gàidhealtachd itself, and entirely through the medium of the language.
Take of advantage of this amazing opportunity to develop your spoken and written language skills, learning from the largest team of Gaelic lecturers in Scotland, based at the National Centre for Gaelic Language and Culture (Sabhal Mòr Ostaig) and at UHI North, West and Hebrides, Stornoway campus.
Explore themes including: the arts; contemporary and traditional literature; minority language issues; oral tradition; and the relationship of Gaelic to other languages, including Irish Gaelic.
Draw on the teaching team's wide range of academic specialisms to enrich your learning and open yourself up to exceptional employment opportunities, at a time when the skills of Gaelic graduates are in higher demand than can be satisfied.
Move into your future career path understanding on a deeper level the distinctive contribution Gaelic culture has made to Scotland and the wider world, and fully equipped to be an active part of its future.
Entry to year 2 may be possible with:
Entry to year 3:
The first year of the programme is primarily a language foundation year.
Depending on your linguistic ability on entry, you will study one of the following pathways:
Students on the Cùrsa Comais or Gaelic and Communication paths will also study 1 of the following optional modules:
You will also study 4 of the following optional modules:
You will also study 3 of the following optional modules:
If you wish to graduate with a BA (Hons) Gaelic with Development, you must take a total of four Development-related modules over the course of the BA and BA (Hons) levels.
*Optional modules that count as credit towards Gaelic with Development pathway **Core for Gaelic with Development pathway
*These modules count as credit towards  BA (Hons) Gaelic with Development **The topic for the Special studies in Gaelic module changes each year.
In years when it is a Development-related topic, this will count as credit towards BA (Hons) Gaelic with Development
Students enrolled in Gaelic-medium teaching programmes at undergraduate and post-graduate level can apply to Bòrd na Gàidhlig for some additonal funding.
Once you have successfully completed this course, you might like to consider careers in a wide range of areas where Gaelic is desirable or essential, including:
You may wish to progress from BA (Hons) Gaelic to the following courses:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/certhe-gaelic-and-communication:
Course code QP59
This course for proficient Gaelic speakers allows you to study Gaelic to an expert level in a fully Gaelic-speaking environment.
This intensive course prepares you for university-level Gaelic-medium education and for progression to the second year of UHI's Gaelic-medium BA and BA (Hons) degrees.
You will study Gaelic literature, Gaelic development, creative writing (short story and song), and public speaking, as well as gaining a thorough understanding of the Gaelic language.
At the end of this course, you will be able to speak, read, and write Gaelic with complete confidence, allowing you to fully take part in all aspects of Gaelic life in Scotland.
Required modules:
Elective modules:
Once you have completed your CertHE Gaelic and Communication you might like to think about careers in:
The CertHE Gaelic and Communication allows progression to the following courses:
We get so much support, the lecturers are always there whenever we need them if we have any questions, lecturers are often an email away, or we can go and see them when we are on campus.
They’ll be here anytime.
We get a lot of one-to-one tuition here, you do feel like you get a lot of support.
There’s always a lot happening on campus, there’s always events we go to.
We’ve got conversation classes, quiz nights and Ceilidhs.
You are never sitting bored, there’s so much on and everything is so close.
The student accommodation was so amazing, the views you get every morning waking up to the sea.
I think it is a great place to study, it is a great community, you know everybody on campus, and it feels like you are part of a family.
It’s a really lovely place to study.
Amber is studying Gaelic at Sabhal Mòr Ostaig, a partner of UHI.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-gaelic-and-education:
Course code XQ10
The BA (Hons) Gaelic and Education is a four-year, Gaelic-medium undergraduate teacher education programme.
The programme is designed for either Gaelic-medium primary teaching or secondary teaching (Gaelic as a subject) and includes 30 weeks of school experience: three weeks in year one of the programme, six weeks in year two, nine weeks in year three and twelve weeks in year four.
Successful completion of this award will give you a direct route into Gaelic/Gaelic-medium teaching.
For primary and secondary teaching in Scotland, you will be required to have the following qualifications, preferably before entry to the programme and by the end of year two of the programme at the latest:
For applicants with little or no previous knowledge of Gaelic, Sabhal Mòr Ostaig offers An Cùrsa Inntrigidh , a distance learning course which aims to prepare you for entry to year one of the degree programme.
The first year of the programme is primarily a language foundation year, during which you will build on language skills and, depending on linguistic ability on entry, will study either:
As part of your chosen CertHE course, you will undertake a professional practice module (Preparing to teach 1) which will comprise a series of professional practice seminars and a three-week school placement.
You will choose another module from a range of Gaelic and related studies modules including literature, oral tradition, and social history.
You will also undertake two education modules in Year 2:
You will be able to choose other modules from a range of Gaelic and related studies modules.
You will also choose another module from a range of Gaelic and related studies modules.
Travel costs to school placements may be reimbursed in accordance with UHI Teacher Education Travel and Subsistence Policy.
Once you have successfully completed the BA (Hons) Gaelic and Education you will be eligible for a place on the GTCS Teacher Induction Scheme in either:
International students may gain full registration via the GTCS flexible route.
Following employment within an education setting and relevant practice experience, you may want to consider the MEd Gaelic Education as part of your continuing professional development.
I applied to a few other universities, but this was my first choice because I could learn locally to where I’m from.
Growing in confidence and getting to expand my skills and knowledge in teaching and Gaelic throughout the whole course has been wonderful.
We’re supported really well, it’s a small course size so we get a lot of one-to-one support any questions or queries are answered straight away, you wouldn’t be worried to go the lecturers with anything.
It’s a really good place to study, you get so many opportunities to be a part of student life, and you get to know the people around you so well.
It makes a really nice community, and the campus is so lovely, and there are so many things to do on the Isle of Skye.
I definitely recommend studying here!
Anna is studying on the BA (Hons) Gaelic and Education at Sabhal Mòr Ostaig, a partner of UHI.
I didn’t consider any other universities.
Sabhal Mòr Ostaig is the heart of Gaelic education, and it was incredibly important to me to study there and learn from the incredible tutors with vast experience in the language and culture.
The campus is like a big family.
Everyone knows each other and it makes for a special learning environment.
To be able to function at every level within the campus through the medium of Gaelic was such a unique experience.
The support was unmatched, I always found the help I needed, everyone was very accommodating and supportive.
The university is a cultural hub!
There were people from different countries and backgrounds, and we regularly came together for cèilidh’s and dances!
I had 3 placements throughout my course.
I was a student teacher and was placed in schools with a mentor whilst receiving regular support from UHI whilst I was on placement.
My placements were a fantastic opportunity to network, get to know different schools and people within the Gaelic teaching community which gave me the confidence I needed when applying and interviewing for jobs.
The campus is in the most beautiful location, I enjoyed my daily walks and wild swimming after classes.
It is a very inspiring place to study.
Katherine studied the BA (Hons) Gaelic and Education at Sabhal Mòr Ostaig, a partner of UHI.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/diphe-gaelic-and-related-studies:
Course code Q506
This Diploma of Higher Education in Gaelic and Related Studies provides an excellent platform for progression into our Gaelic degree programmes:
You will study modules from the Gaelic degree programmes and improve your Gaelic language ability, which will enable you to exit with a DipHE award or to progress to further study within the Gaelic and Related Studies Scheme.
You will be supported and guided by the course team to ensure your choices enable smooth progression to the next stage of the course, should you wish to progress further.
The first year of the programme is primarily a language foundation year and, depending on your linguistic ability on entry, you can study either:
You will get the opportunity to take a three-week work placement in a Gaelic environment if studying An Cùrsa Comais or Gàidhlig agus Conaltradh.
You may wish to progress from DipHE Gaelic and Related Studies to the following courses:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-gaelic-and-traditional-music:
Course code QW53
Immerse yourself in a vibrant musical environment as a traditional singer or instrumentalist, and prepare yourself for a dynamic career as a Gaelic musician, with opportunities  across a variety of sectors.
Benefit from the strong practical elements of this BA (Hons) Gaelic and Traditional Music course, learning from leading musicians, with frequent opportunities to perform and record both on campus and further afield.
Base yourself in the heart of a Gaelic-speaking community, at our Sabhal Mòr Ostaig campus on the beautiful Isle of Skye, as you gain an outstanding education in Gaelic musical heritage within the broader context of Gaelic and related studies.
Develop a range of practical skills for solo and group performances, make important professional contacts, experience hands-on learning in our outstanding dedicated recording studio, and enjoy the incredible opportunity of studying abroad for a semester, in Canada or Ireland, in your final year.
We offer modern student accommodation on campus ideally suited to students on this course.
Entry to year 3 may be possible with:
Subjects include:
Once you have successfully completed your BA (Hons) Gaelic and Traditional Music course you might like to consider a career in:
I considered the University of Glasgow and Edinburgh but as soon as I got the offer to study at Sabhal Mòr Ostaig I just accepted it!
We get a lot of one-to-one tuition here, you do feel like you get a lot support.
We’ve got conversation classes, quiz nights and ceilidhs.
Everyone in my flat at the moment is all on a music course as well, which has been great as I am always surrounded by music.
I would recommend this course 100%, I think it is a great place to study.
Especially here in Skye, it is a great community, you know everybody on campus, and it feels like you are part of a family.
Amber is studying on the BA (Hons) Gaelic and Traditional Music at Sabhal Mòr Ostaig, a partner of UHI.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/med-gaelic-education:
This MEd Gaelic Education is delivered entirely through the medium of Gaelic, allowing you to develop your literacy skills in Gaelic while at the same time progressing your professional knowledge, understanding and skills relating to Gaelic education.
You will focus on the following areas in your studies:
The programme is comprised of progressive modules that allow you to continually build upon prior learning.
This culminates in a final practitioner enquiry study, designed to enable you to utilise the knowledge, skills and professional understanding that you have developed throughout the programme to support improvement in your own setting.
The MEd Gaelic Education is funded by the Scottish Government therefore no tuition fees will be payable by students.
Eligibility for this course is dependent on being registered with the General Teaching Council for Scotland (GTCS).
This course is fully funded by the Scottish Government.
You will be required to attend a mandatory, one-day face to face event at Sabhal Mòr Ostaig in September at the start of each academic year.
Any travel costs incurred will be at your own expense.
This programme will contribute positively towards your professional learning as a teacher.
You may wish to progress from MEd Gaelic Education to a PhD in Education.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/diphe-gaelic-media:
Course code P390
If you aspire to a career within the Gaelic media industry, this dynamic DipHE Gaelic Media course will provide you with the experience and knowledge required for direct entry to the workplace.
The course is delivered at our Sabhal Mòr Ostaig campus on the Isle of Skye, and in conjunction with the broadcast and media industry in Scotland.
Sabhal Mòr Ostaig UHI has been successfully providing training in Gaelic media for over 20 years and you will gain real opportunities through their experienced and dedicated staff and strong industry links.
Throughout the course you will develop the necessary industry-specific knowledge and skills alongside the transferable skills sought after by employers.
You will also be able to enhance your language skills both while studying and in the wider Gaelic community.
In year one, you will have the opportunity of a week’s work-based learning with a BBC Outside Broadcast Unit at The Royal National Mòd and will have regular input from industry practitioners across a range of modules.
There will also be masterclasses from nationally and internationally recognised industry specialists in technical and communication skills.
During the second year, you will spend ten months on industry placement at various media companies and broadcasters and will learn and be assessed on the work you undertake during this time.
These workplace opportunities will be supported by MG Alba* and an advisory panel consisting of various industry practitioners as well as representatives of Sabhal Mòr Ostaig UHI.
*MG ALBA is regulated by Ofcom and its board is appointed by Ofcom, with the agreement of the Scottish Ministers.
MG ALBA is the operating name of Seirbheis nam Meadhanan Gàidhlig (Gaelic Media Service).
*Year 2 hours are regular working hours of 40 hours per week, but this may vary depending on the placement provider
DipHE
2025-26
Full-time (120 credit modules) per year
£1,285
£7,110
£7,440
£8,775
£8,925
Those studying the 10-month work placement in year 2 will be awarded monthly bursaries from MG Alba.
Once you have successfully completed this course you will be able to pursue a career in the media industry such as in television and radio.
I chose this course because it gave me lots of good opportunities I knew I wouldn’t get anywhere else.
My highlight so far is definitely when we went on placement the National Mod in Perth with the BBC!
I would highly recommend it, you develop such a tight knit bond with everyone, all the teachers and staff are so helpful.
They are willing to help you at the drop of a hat.
And, on the campus, the views are insane, and you can see otters and seals!
Mhairi is studying on the DipHE Gaelic Media at Sabhal Mòr Ostaig, a partner of UHI.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/pda-gaelic-translation-scqf-level-11:
This PDA Gaelic Translation (SCQF level 11) is intended for those already working as translators, who wish to further develop their knowledge, skills and practice.
It is also suitable if you have a high level of language competence in both Gaelic and English and wish to undertake the process necessary to become a competent translator working to professional standards.
The main areas of work covered include: public body Gaelic plans; translation work in the media sector; broadcasting; and publishing.
It would be beneficial if you held the following qualification:
*Sabhal Mòr Ostaig qualification (non-SQA)
You will complete the following modules:
The units in this PDA Gaelic Translation (SCQF level 11) have been mapped against the National Occupational Standards for Translation, units PTra3 and PTra4, qualifying you to work as a Professional translator.
You might like to consider careers in translation in areas such as:
On completion of this PDA, you may have the opportunity to progress to professional registration.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-gaelic-with-development:
Course code Q540
Do you want to play a part in securing the future of Gaelic language and culture in our society?
Could you put your enthusiasm and skills to use, ensuring Gaelic is included and celebrated in our country and communities for generations to come?
Gaelic, like a huge proportion of the world's languages, faces an uncertain future.
The importance of planning and development to maintain languages and culture within successful, sustainable  communities, often rural and peripheral, is increasingly recognised.
Join our BA (Hons) Gaelic with Development, developed with awareness of these challenges and designed to equip you with  the skills needed to address them.
Learn about linguistic, economic, social, rural, community, and sustainable development, and their importance in determining the future of languages and cultures.
Public bodies such as Bòrd na Gàidhlig and local authorities are legally required to develop language plans in collaboration with Gaelic advocates: learn to apply current theories of language decline and revitalisation to Gaelic in Scotland, and compare local situations with those in Europe and around the world, so that you can contribute to the discussion and become a fundamental part of the solution.
To apply to this course, please see our BA (Hons) Gaelic .
For CertHE entry, please apply to BA (Hons) Gaelic year one (level 7).
For DipHE entry, please apply to BA (Hons) Gaelic year two (level 8).
You may wish to progress from BA (Hons) Gaelic with Development to the following courses:
Applications for this course are only accepted via our BA (Hons) Gaelic .
Please visit the course page for further information.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-le-urram-gaidhlig-agus-ceol-traidiseanta:
Is e cothrom air leth a th’ ann an seo do sheinneadairean agus luchd-ciùil comasach cothrom fhaighinn air a’ bheairteas mhòr de dhualchas ceòl traidiseanta na Gàidhlig aig cridhe na Gàidhealtachd.
Is e cùrsa sònraichte a th’ anns a’ chùrsa BA (le Urram) ann an Gàidhlig agus Ceòl Traidiseanta far am faigh thu cothrom ceòl, eachdraidh agus dualchas na Gàidhealtachd a sgrùdadh, taobh a-staigh na co-theacsan nas fharsainge de Ghàidhlig agus cuspairean co-cheangailte.
Ionnsachaidh tu bho fharsaingeachd de luchd-ciùil air thoiseach agus speisealaichean acadaimigeach agus bidh cothrom agad semeastar a chur seachad ann an Canada no Èirinn sa bhliadhna Urraim agad.
Dh’fhaodadh gum biodh e comasach tòiseachadh air bliadhna 2 le:
Dh’fhaodadh gum biodh e comasach tòiseachadh air bliadhna3 le:
Tha an àireamh de dh’uairean gach seachdain a’ ciallachadh na h-àireimh iomlan de dh’uairean a bu chòir dhut cuir seachad air a’ chùrsa, a’ gabhail a-steach ùine a chuireas tu seachad ann an òraidean agus an ùine agad fhèin a chuireas tu seachad air obair agus rannsachadh fa leth.
Tha an ceathramh bliadhna an asgaidh do dh’oileanaich làn-ùine a phàigh airson nan trì bliadhnaichean ron sin aig Oilthigh na Gàidhealtachd agus nan Eilean a-mhàin.
Pàirt-ùine (airson gach modal luach 20 creideas) - £1,542
Airson 2022-23, gheibh oileanaich sgoilearachd fèin-ghluasadach de £3,000 sa bhliadhna agus bidh an 4mh bliadhna de dh’ionnsachadh saor an asgaidh dhaibhsan a tha a’ dèanamh làn-ùine, air ionnsachadh leantainneach, a tha air pàigheadh airson nan trì bliadhna mu dheireadh aig Oilthigh na Gàidhealtachd.
agus Eileanan.
Feumaidh oileanaich taic-airgid bhìosa Slighe Oileanach gus sgrùdadh a dhèanamh air an RA
Chan eil sgrùdadh pàirt-ùine fosgailte do dh’ oileanach eadar-nàiseanta a dh’ fheumas taic-airgid bhìosa Slighe Oileanach airson ionnsachadh san RA.
Tuilleadh fiosrachaidh mu chìsean eadar-nàiseanta .
Tha gealltanas àrdachadh gun chìs ri fhaighinn airson fèin-mhaoineachadh làn-ùine agus structarail pàirt-ùine an còrr den RA, EU agus oileanaich fho-cheumnach eadar-nàiseanta airson ionnsachadh leantainneach airson an aon duais, suas chun na h-ùine àbhaisteach ceadaichte airson na duaise iomchaidh.
Dh'fhaodar sgoilearachdan is tùsan maoineachaidh a bhith ri fhaotainn.
Cuir fios air a' cholaiste airson barrachd fiosrachaidh.
Aon uair ’s gun coilion thu an cùrsa BA (le Urram) ann an Gàidhlig agus Ceòl gu soirbheachail, faodaidh gum bi ùidh agad anns na dreuchdan a leanas:
Bheachdaich mi air dol gu Oilthigh Ghlaschu agus Dhùn Èideann ach cho luath 's a fhuair mi an tairgse airson ionnsachadh aig Sabhal Mòr Ostaig ghabh mi rithe, dìreach!
Bidh sinn a’ faighinn uiread de thaic, bidh na h-òraidichean an còmhnaidh ann uair sam bith a bhios feum againn orra ma tha ceistean sam bith againn, gu math tric cha bhi na h-òraidichean ach aon phost-d air falbh bhuainn, agus faodaidh sinn dol gam faicinn nuair a bhios sinn air an àrainn.
Bidh iad an seo uair sam bith.
Bidh sinn a’ faighinn tòrr oideachaidh aon-ri-aon an seo – bidh sibh a’ faireachdainn gu bheil sibh a’ faighinn tòrr taice.
Tha tòrr a’ tàchairt an còmhnaidh air an àrainn, tha daonnan tachartasan ann a bhios sinn a’ dol chuca.
Bidh clasaichean còmhraidh, farpaisean-cheist agus cèilidhean againn.
Chan bhi sibh uair sam bith nur suidhe is fadal oirbh, bidh an t-uabhas an còmhnaidh a’ dol agus tha a h-uile sian cho faisg air làimh.
Bha àitichean-fuirich nan oileanach dìreach baibheil, na seallaidhean a chì sibh gach madainn an àm a bhith a’ dùsgadh le fradharc air a’ mhuir.
A h-uile duine a tha san àros agam an-dràsta, tha iad air cùrsa ciùil cuideachd, rud a tha air a bhith sgoinneil leis gu bheil mi an còmhnaidh air mo chuairteachadh le ceòl.
Bhithinn a’ moladh a’ chùrsa seo 100%, tha mi a’ smaoineachadh gur e fìor dheagh àite a th’ ann airson ionnsachadh.
Gu sònraichte an seo anns an Eilean Sgitheanach, ’s e coimhearsnachd air leth a th’ ann, tha sibh eòlach air a h-uile duine air an àrainn, agus a’ faireachdainn gu bheil sibh mar phàirt de theaghlach.
Is e àite ciatach a th’ ann airson ionnsachadh.
Tha Amber a’ dèanamh BA (le Urram) Gàidhlig is Ceòl Traidiseanta aig Sabhal Mòr Ostaig, fear de chom-pàirtichean UHI.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/certhe-gaidhlig-agus-conaltradh:
Tha an cùrsa seo air a dhealbhadh do dhaoine a tha reusanta comasach ann an Gàidhlig agus a tha ag iarraidh Gàidhlig a sgrùdadh gu h-àrd ìre ann an àrainneachd làn Ghàidhlig.
Aig deireadh a’ chùrsa, bidh sibh deiseil gus cuspairean a sgrùdadh aig ìre oilthighe tro mheadhan na Gàidhlig agus gus gluasad air adhart dhan dàrna bhliadhna de na ceumannan BA agus BA(Urram) Gàidhlig aig OGE.
Anns a’ chùrsa seo, sgrùdaidh sibh litreachas na Gàidhlig, leasachadh na Gàidhlig, sgrìobhadh cruthachail (sgeulachdan goirid agus òrain), agus labhairt phoblach.
Cuideachd, nì sibh sgrùdadh air a’ Ghàidhlig air fad, bho fhuaimneachadh gu gràmar, briathrachas, cleachdaidhean agus rèimean-cainnte foirmeil.
Aig deireadh a’ chùrsa seo, bidh sibh comasach Gàidhlig a bhruidhinn, a thuigsinn, a sgrìobhadh agus a leughadh le misneachd agus chun na h-ìre gur urrainn dhuibh làn phàirt a ghabhail ann an saoghal na Gàidhlig ann an Alba.
An Cùrsa Adhartais
Tha an àireamh de dh’uairean gach seachdain a’ ciallachadh na h-àireimh iomlan de dh’uairean a bu chòir dhuibh cur seachad air a’ chùrsa, a’ gabhail a-steach ùine a chuireas sibh seachad ann an òraidean agus an ùine agaibh fhèin a chuireas sibh seachad air obair agus rannsachadh fa-leth.
Dh'fhaodar sgoilearachdan is taic airgid a bhith ri fhaotainn .
Aon uair ’s gun coilion thu an CertHE ann an Gàidhlig agus Conaltradh, faodaidh gum bi ùidh agad anns na dreuchdan a leanas:
Tha an CertHE ann an Gàidhlig agus Conaltradh a’ leigeil leat dol air adhart ris na cùrsaichean a leanas:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/diphe-gaidhlig-agus-cuspairean-co-cheangailte:
Tha an Dioplòma Foghlam Àrd-ìre ann an Gàidhlig is Cuspairean Co-cheangailte na chùrsa mhath airson adhartas gu ar prògraman ceuma Gàidhlig:
Gabhaidh tu modalan bho na prògraman ceuma Gàidhlig agus thig do chomas sa Ghàidhlig air adhart, a' toirt cothrom dhut fàgail le Dioplòma Àrd-ìre no a dhol air adhart gu tuilleadh ionnsachaidh tro sgeama na Gàidhlig is Cuspairean Co-cheangailte.
Gheibh thu taic is stiùireadh bho sgioba a' chùrsa airson dèanamh cinnteach gum bi na modalan a thaghas tu freagarrach airson adhartas chun na h-ath ìre ma 's e sin a bhios tu ag iarraidh.
S e bliadhna chànain a th' anns a' chiad bhliadhna agus, a rèir do chomasan cànain, faodaidh tu dèanamh:
Gheibh thu cothrom greis gnìomhachais, ann an àrainneachd Ghàidhlig, a dhèanamh ma tha thu air a' Chùrsa Chomais no Gàidhlig agus Conaltradh.
Tha na cuspairean a' gabhail a-steach:
Tha an àireamh de dh'uairean san t-seachdain a' ciallachadh na h-uairean iomlan a bu chòir dhut a chur seachad air a' chùrsa, a' gabhail a-steach ùine ann an òraidean agus ionnsachadh is rannsachadh air do cheann fhèin.
Tha diofar sgoilearachdan, bhursaraidhean is thahbrtasan aig UHI rim a tha fosgailte gu oileanaich ùra is oileanaich eile.
Thoir sùil air A-Z maoin airgid no criathraich airson faicinn de na maoin as iomchaidh dhut fhèin.
Gheibhear tuilleadh fiosrachaidh air maoineachadh airson do chuid ionnsachaidh ; thoir sùil air a cheangal an cois seo no cuir fios chun na colaiste.
An uair a tha thu air crìoch a chur air a' chùrsa gu soirhbeachail dh'fhaodadh tu smaoineachadh air dreuchdan anns na raointean a leanas:
Dh'fhaodadh tu gluasad air adhart bhon DipHE Gàidhlig is Cuspairean Co-cheangailte gu:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-le-urram-gaidhlig-agus-foghlam:
Is e prògram foghlam thidsearan tro mheadhan na Gàidhlig a tha anns a' chùrsa BA (le Urram) Gàidhlig agus Foghlam.
Tha am prògram a’ tabhann teisteanas ann am foghlam tro mheadhan na Gàidhlig sa bhun-sgoil no ann an Gàidhlig mar chuspair san àrd-sgoil.
Bidh 30 seachdainean de ghreisean-sgoile mar phàirt den teisteanas seo: 3 seachdainean air Bliadhna 1, 6 seachdainean air Bliadhna 2, 9 seachdainean air Bliadhna 3, agus 12 seachdain air Bliadhna 4.
Tha am prògram seo a’ tabhann slighe dhìreach a-steach gu teagasg Gàidhlig aig ìre bun-sgoile no ìre àrd-sgoile.
Is e bliadhna cànain a tha anns a’ Chiad Bhliadhna agus, a rèir do chomasan sa chànan, nì thu fear de na cùrsaichean a leanas:
Mar phàirt den CertHE agad, nì thu modal ann am practas proifeasanta (Ag Amas air Teagasg 1) - sreath de sheiminearan air practas proifeasanta agus trì seachdainean de ghreis-sgoile ann an sgoil a tha a’ tabhann foghlam tro mheadhan na Gàidhlig.
Bidh cothrom agad taghadh a dhèanamh de mhodailean eile ann an Gàidhlig/cuspairean co-cheangailte, nam measg, litreachas, beul-aithris agus eachdraidh shòisealta nan Gàidheal.
Mar oileanach ann am Foghlam Thidsearan, nì thu dà mhodail ann am foghlam ann am Bliadhna 2:
Modalan:
agus modailean roghainneil ann an Gàidhlig agus cuspairean co-cheangailte.
Nì thu cuideachd taghadh de mhodal bho sgeama Gàidhlig is cuspairean co-cheangailte.
Airson fiosrachadh mu chosgaisean a’ chùrsa seo, cuir fios chun a colaiste far a bheil thu airson a bhith ag ionnsachadh.
Tha cothrom air maoineachadh is taic-airgid a bharrachd airson a' chùrsa seo.
Cuir fios dhan cholaiste airson tuilleadh fiosrachaidh.
Faodaidh oileanaich air prògraman teagaisg Gàidhlig (fo-cheum no for-cheum) tagradh a dhèanamh ri Bòrd na Gàidhlig airson taic-airgid fhaighinn.
Thèid cosgaisean siubhail air greisean-sgoile a phàigheadh do dh’oileanaich far a bheil seo iomchaidh agus a rèir Poileasaidh Siubhail Foghlam Thidsearan OGE.
An dhèidh dhut an ceum BA (le Urram) Gàidhlig agus Foghlam a choileanadh, thèid obair bliadhna a thabhann dhut mar thidsear ùr air sgeama GTCS ann am:
Tha e an comas do dh’oileanaich eadar-nàiseanta làn chlàradh fhaighinn le GTCS air Slighe Shùbailte.
Nuair a thòisicheas tu air obair mar thidsear, thèid agad air MEd Foghlam Gàidhlig a dhèanamh mar phàirt dhen leasachadh phroifeiseanta leantainneach agad.
Chuir mi tagradh a-steach do bheagan oilthighean eile, ach b’ e seo a’ chiad roghainn agam leis gum b’ urrainn dhomh ionnsachadh gu h-ionadail anns an àite às a bheil mi.
Tha e air a bhith mìorbhaileach a bhith a’ fàs nas misneachdaile, agus a bhith a’ leasachadh nan sgilean agus an eòlais a th’ agam ann an teagasg agus Gàidhlig tron chùrsa air fad.
Bidh sinn a’ faotainn taic fìor mhath, ’s e cùrsa beag a th’ ann agus mar sin gheibh sinn tòrr taic aon-ri-aon.
Ma bhios ceist sam bith againn, gheibh sinn freagairt sa bhad, cha bhiodh dragh oirbh a dhol a dh’ionnsaigh nan òraidichean le rud sam bith.
Is e àite fìor mhath a th’ ann airson ionnsachadh, gheibh sibh an t-uabhas de chothroman pàirt a ghabhail ann am beatha nan oileanach, agus cuiridh sibh eòlas cho math air na daoine a tha mun cuairt oirbh.
’S e coimhearsnachd air leth a th’ innte, agus tha an àrainn cho brèagha, agus tha uimhir de rudan ri an dèanamh san Eilean Sgitheanach.
Tha mi gu cinnteach a’ moladh ionnsachadh an seo!
Tha Anna a’ dèanamh BA (le Urram) ann an Gàidhlig agus Foghlam aig Sabhal Mòr Ostaig, fear de chom-pàirtichean UHI.
Cha do smaointich mi air oilthighean sam bith eile idir.
Tha Sabhal Mòr Ostaig aig cridhe foghlam Gàidhlig, agus bha e anabarrach cudromach dhomh a bhith a’ stuidearachd an sin agus ag ionnsachadh bhon luchd-theagaisg air leth is eòlas ro-fharsaing aca air a’ chànan is an cultar.
Tha an àrainn coltach ri teaghlach mòr.
Tha a h-uile duine eòlach air a chèile, agus air sgàth sin, is e àrainneachd ionnsachaidh shònraichte a th’ innte.
Is e rud gun samhail a bh’ ann comas a bhith againn obrachadh tro mheadhan na Gàidhlig air feadh na h-àrainne, aig gach ìre.
An taic a bh’ ann, bha i gun choimeas - fhuair mi an còmhnaidh an cuideachadh a bha a dhìth orm, bha a h-uile duine glè chòmhstach, taiceil.
Tha an t-oilthigh na chruinn-ionad cultarail!
Bha daoine ann à diofar dhùthchannan is diofar eachdraidhean aca, agus bhiodh sinn tric a’ tighinn còmhla airson cèilidhean is dannsaichean!
Bha trì greisean-gnìomhachais agam feadh mo chùrsa.
’S e oileanach teagaisg a bh’ annam agus chaidh mo chur ann an sgoiltean le comhairliche is mi a’ faighinn taic chunbhalach bho Oilthigh na Gàidhealtachd agus nan Eilean fhad ’s a bha mi air greis-ghnìomhachais.
B’ e cothrom air leth a bh’ anns na greisean-gnìomhachais agam a thaobh lìonrachadh agus eòlas a chur air diofar sgoiltean is daoine sa choimhearsnachd teagaisg Gàidhlig, rud a thug dhomh a’ mhisneachd a bha a dhìth orm is mi a’ cur thagraidhean a-steach agus a’ dèanamh agallamhan airson obraichean.
Tha an àrainn ann an àite cho anabarrach brèagha, ghabh mi tlachd mhòr sna cuairtean làitheil agam agus snàmh air a’ bhlàr a-muigh às deidh chlasaichean.
Is e àite fìor thogarrach a th’ ann airson ionnsachadh.
Rinn Katherine ceum BA (le Urram) ann an Gàidhlig agus Foghlam aig Sabhal Mòr Ostaig, fear de chom-pàirtichean UHI.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-geography:
Course code L720
Geography is the study of the Earth and the link between physical and human landscapes.
It explores the inter-relationships between people, place and the environment and how these vary across and between places.
Our BA (Hons) Geography considers these links from a humanities and social science perspective, focusing on issues such as land use, planning and development, globalisation, climate change, energy, and tourism, in order to examine human relationships with the environment.
This course will provide you with the knowledge and skills to understand many aspects of our rapidly changing world, enabling you to tackle real-world problems in a range of organisations and sectors, and with a broad curriculum, created to develop both your specialist and transferable skills.
Geography graduates are among the most employable: you will leave the course with highly transferable skills, such as: demonstrating ideas via reports and oral presentation;  data collection and analysis; and the use of specialist mapping and statistical software.
The knowledge and skills taught in this degree are of relevance to many areas of employment, including: renewable energy; energy efficiency; waste management; tourism; rural and community development; agriculture; local government; planning; logistics; and environmental agencies.
A significant number of geography graduates also move on to careers in finance, marketing and law, or to further postgraduate study, teaching and research.
You will also choose two further option modules from across the Humanities subject area.
You will also choose two further option modules from across the Humanities subject area, which includes our optional international field trip module, 'Sustainable development approaches in an international context'.
You will usually study the following core modules:
You will also choose one further option module from across the Humanities subject area.
You will also study one further optional module from across the Humanities subject area.
Once you have successfully completed the BA (Hons) Geography course, you might like to consider careers in:
This degree meets the General Teaching Council of Scotland (GTCS) criteria of studying 80 credits per year at SCQF Levels 7 and 8 in the subject area, enabling you to apply to study PGDE Secondary Education in Geography.
Alternatively, you may wish to progress from the BA (Hons) Geography to the following courses:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/bsc-hons-geography:
Course code F820
Are you inspired by understanding the world around you?
Would you like the opportunity to explore your interests against the incredible backdrop of the Highlands and Islands?
Join our BSc (Hons) Geography and discover how, at both local and global levels, many of the main challenges facing the world in the 21st century are related to geography.
Studying an exciting mix of physical, environmental and human geography, this course will equip you with the wide range of knowledge and skills needed for the modern workplace.
Field trips are a valuable and memorable part of studying geography.
This course includes several day trips in the local area, as well as residential field trips in Scotland* and an international fieldtrip in Iceland*.
You may also be interested in our BSc (Hons) Geography (with a year in industry) , BSc (Hons) Environmental Science , or BA (Hons) Sustainable Development courses.
*you will be required to pay a contribution towards the costs of these trips.
Further information is available upon request.
*Not available to international students requiring a visa to study in the UK **Core for direct entrant in year 2 only
Each semester is 12 weeks long with 6 modules each academic year.
For each module you will spend approximately two hours each week reading the online lecture material, plus 1-2 hours a week with module leader-led work and up to 2 hours a week in face-to-face tutorials.
A typical week could consist of up to 18 hours of structured study time and the remaining 17 hours a week would be spent in self-directed study.
In some weeks there may also be field trips.
EEA/Swiss nationals with pre-settled status who are self-employed or migrant workers in the UK.
Ireland, including Channel Islands and the Isle of Man) studying this course full time, the following fees apply:
Once you have completed your BSc (Hons) Geography course, you could progress to a career in:
You can progress from the BSc (Hons) Geography to:
I chose UHI as it offered the best environment to study geography.
My lecturers could not have been more helpful, they were passionate about their subjects and keen to assist in any way – always going the extra mile.
UHI’s unparalleled experience in flexible and blended learning worked really well with my circumstances.
As part of my studies, I undertook a month’s work placement with RSPB Scotland, giving me the opportunity to practice and enhance my GIS skills in a real-world environment.
UHI will equip you with everything you need for your career, and continue to support you as a graduate too.
My favourite thing about UHI is studying surrounded by the beautiful countryside, and all of the outdoor opportunities the Highlands and Islands have to offer.
UHI is so much more than a university, it is a family where everyone is interested and invested in your success.
George studied BSc (Hons) Geography at UHI Inverness.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/bsc-hons-geography-with-a-year-in-industry:
Course code F821
Would you like the opportunity to gain industry experience as you learn?
Join our 5-year BSc (Hons) Geography (with a year in industry) and discover how, at both local and global levels, many of the main challenges facing the world in the 21st century are related to geography.
This course also allows you to spend a year working in industry to gain invaluable skills and improve your CV, giving you greater career potential upon graduating from university.
You may also be interested in our BSc (Hons) Environmental Science (with a year in industry or our BSc (Hons) Geography .
*Recommended science subjects (Highers /A levels):
Each semester is 12 weeks long and comprises 3 modules.
You are expected to commit to 200 hours of work per module, which equates to 600 hours per semester/50 hours a week – it is an intensive course but only amounts to 24 weeks out of the whole year.
For each module you will spend about two hours a week reading the online lecture material, plus 1-2 hours a week with the module leader and up to 2 hours a week in face-to-face tutorials.
You will be studying 3 modules at a time, so a typical week could consist of up to 18 hours of structured study time and the remaining 32 hours a week would be spent in self-directed study.
Once you have successfully completed your BSc (Hons) Geography (with a year in industry), you may wish to pursue a career in:
You may wish to progress from this BSc (Hons) Geography (with a year in industry) to the following courses:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-geography-and-archaeology:
Course code L72A
Archaeology is the study of our past and the remains that humanity has left behind.
Our BA (Hons) Geography and Archaeology considers both the present and the past from a humanities and social science perspective, focusing on issues including patterns of land use, planning and development, sustainability and globalisation, and heritage and tourism, in order to examine human relationships with the environment both today and in the past.
A degree in geography and archaeology provides you with the knowledge and skills to understand many aspects of our rapidly changing world, equipping you to tackle real-world problems in a range of organisations and sectors, with the wide curriculum developing both specialist and transferable skills.
Geography and archaeology graduates are among the most employable, with skills developed in presenting ideas in reports and oral presentations, in data collection and analysis, and in the use of specialist mapping and statistical software.
The knowledge and skills taught in this course are of relevance to many areas of employment, including: renewable energy; energy efficiency; cultural heritage management; travel and tourism; rural and community development; agriculture; local government; planning; logistics; and environmental agencies.
A significant number of graduates also move on to careers in finance, marketing and law, or to further postgraduate study, teaching and research.
You will choose at least one of the following archaeology modules:
You will also choose two further option modules from archaeology, geography or our range of humanities subjects.
You will study the following Geography modules:
You will choose two from the following Archaeology modules:
You will usually study the following modules:
You will also choose three of the following archaeology modules:
You will complete a double credit dissertation in either Geography or Archaeology (S1 and S2).
You will also study at least one module from your chosen dissertation subject, and at least two modules from the other subject, for a total of 6 modules.
Archaeology modules may include:
Geography modules may include:
Excavation skills is a compulsory, 2-week, residential field school, normally taken during summer at a site location off-campus.
You will be responsible for covering the costs of your travel and subsistence.
There is considerable flexibility with dates and locations.
There are also opportunities to participate in archaeological fieldwork, attend student society residential trips, and take part in an optional international field trip to Iceland.
You will be required to pay a contribution towards the cost of these events.
Attendance at such face to face events is optional and not essential for completion of the course.
Alternatively, you may wish to progress from BA (Hons) Geography and Archaeology to the following courses:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-geography-and-criminology:
Course code L72C
If you're looking for a degree that helps you understand human and social interactions from different angles, this BA (Hons) Geography and Criminology is the one for you.
Geography is the study of the earth and the link between physical and human landscapes.
It explores the relationships between people, place and the environment and how these vary across and between places.
You will look at issues such as land use, planning and development, globalisation, climate change, energy, and tourism, in order to examine human relationships with the environment.
Geography graduates are among the most employable, with skills developed in presenting ideas in reports and oral presentations, through data collection and analysis, and in the use of specialist mapping and statistical software.
Core to this programme are the development of clear and confident research methods and analysis skills.
You will also develop a critical understanding of the local, national and international contexts of crime, offenders, victimisation and responses to crime (including cybercrime).
Delivered online by blended learning and available to study from home, you will benefit from collaborative discussions and activities with colleagues from a range of diverse backgrounds and experiences, facilitated by tutors with many years of experience in delivering online education.
You will also choose two further option modules from other humanities subjects.
You will also choose three of the following modules:
You will complete a dissertation in either Geography or Criminology.
Criminology modules may include:
This course includes an option to attend student society residential trips and an optional international field trip to Iceland.
You will be required to  pay a contribution towards the cost of the residential and international trips.
Once you have successfully completed this BA (Hons) Geography and Criminology course, you might like to consider careers in:
Alternatively you may wish to progress from BA (Hons) Geography and Criminology to the following courses:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-geography-and-history:
Course code L72H
Geography is the study of the Earth and the link between physical and human landscapes, it explores the relationships between people, place and the environment, and how these vary between places; History is the study of the past and investigates the cultural, political, social and economic history of Britain, Europe and the Atlantic World.
Combining these subjects will allow you to fully explore how the world has changed, is changing and how it will change in the future.
Through Geography, you will look at issues such as land use, planning and development, globalisation, climate change, energy, and tourism, in order to examine human relationships with the environment.
Through History, you will first follow a broad approach to the study of history from the medieval to the modern period, before examining in-depth particular topics of history, and specific places, periods and themes which utilise the research specialisms of your teaching team.
Geography graduates are among the most employable, with skills developed in presenting ideas in reports and oral presentations, in data collection and analysis, and in the use of specialist mapping and statistical software.
Each year, you will also build on your historical analytical and research abilities through a series of skills modules.
Geography
Plus, one of the following modules:
You will also choose two further option modules from other humanities subjects (including the history options above).
You will study the following core skills module:
Plus a choice of one of the following three modules:
You will also choose two further option modules from across the Humanities subject area (including the history options above), which includes our optional international field trip module, 'Sustainable development approaches in an international context'.
Please note that if you are a direct entrant to second year, we strongly advise that you take the Level 7 core module – What is History?
– as one of your options.
Please contact historyhelp@uhi.ac.uk to discuss.
You will study one of the following modules:
You will also study a further five modules from those listed below, ensuring a balance of three History and three Geography modules in total.
You may take one Scottish History module in place of one History module.
Students wishing to specialise in Scottish History at Level 10 and exit with a BA (Hons) Geography and Scottish History are advised to take at least one Scottish history module, plus undertake a Scottish topic for their Public History project, or two Scottish history options.
You will complete a dissertation in either Geography or History.
Please see notes below if you wish to specialise in Scottish History.
If you wish to exit with a BA (Hons) Geography and Scottish History, you must undertake a Scottish history dissertation plus one further Scottish history or history module OR, if you are undertaking a Geography dissertation, two of the three History modules must be in Scottish history topics.
Once you have successfully completed your BA (Hons) Geography and History course, you might like to consider careers in:
Alternatively, you may wish to progress from BA (Hons) Geography and History to one of the following courses:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-geography-and-politics:
Course code L72P
Geography is the study of the Earth, and the link between physical and human landscapes.
It explores the inter-relationships between people, place, and the environment, and how these vary across and between places.
This degree considers these links from a humanities and social sciences perspective, focusing on issues such as land use, planning and development, globalisation, climate change, energy, and tourism, in order to examine human relationships with the environment.
The broad curriculum has been designed to provide you with the knowledge and skills to understand many aspects of our rapidly changing world, equipping you to tackle real-world problems in a range of organisations and sectors, and develop specialist and transferable skills.
The relationship between geography and politics is incredibly close, with the study of borders, territory, population shifts, conflict, nationalism, geopolitics, and environmental politics embedded throughout the modules.
The politics modules of this joint degree will follow the four main pillars of political study; you will study International relations, Comparative politics, and Applied politics, all feeding from the central pillar of Political theory.
You can apply to this degree with little more than a keen interest in politics: the modules become incrementally more specialised as the semesters go on and you can choose introductory options that will develop your understanding at a steady pace.
The knowledge and skills taught in this BA (Hons) Geography and Politics are of relevance to many areas of employment, including: renewable energy; energy efficiency; waste management; tourism; rural and community development; agriculture; local government; planning; logistics; and environmental agencies.
A significant number of geography graduates move on to careers in finance, marketing and law, or to further postgraduate study, teaching and research, and geography graduates are among the most employable, with skills developed in presenting ideas in reports and oral presentations, in data collection and analysis, and in the use of specialist mapping and statistical software.
Plus two of the following modules:
You will complete either a Geography or Politics dissertation.
Once you have successfully completed your BA (Hons) Geography and Politics course, you might like to consider careers in:
Alternatively, you may wish to progress from BA (Hons) Geography and Politics to one of the following courses:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-geography-culture-and-heritage:
Course code L7CH
Our BA (Hons) Geography, Culture and Heritage considers these links from a humanities and social science perspective, focusing on issues such as land use, planning and development, globalisation, climate change, energy, and tourism, in order to examine human relationships with the environment as well as the subjects of key cultural, literary, linguistic, historical, musical and philosophical issues at a national and regional level.
A degree in Geography, Culture and Heritage provides you with the knowledge and skills to understand many aspects of our rapidly changing world, equipping you to tackle real-world problems in a range of organisations and sectors, with the wide curriculum developing both specialist and transferable skills.
You will also be able to immerse yourself in the wealth of fascinating culture and heritage that the Highlands and Islands of Scotland has to offer, and gain an understanding of its place in a global context.
A significant number of Geography graduates move on to careers in finance, marketing and law, or to further postgraduate study, teaching and research.
The knowledge and skills taught in this BA (Hons) Geography, Culture and Heritage degree are of relevance to many areas of employment, including: renewable energy; energy efficiency; waste management; tourism; rural and community development; agriculture; local government; planning; logistics; environmental agencies; primary and secondary teaching; interpretation; journalism and the media; heritage sector; museums; and government agencies.
You will study the following modules: Geography
Plus two of the following modules: Culture and Heritage
You will choose one of the following modules:
You will complete a dissertation in either Geography or Culture and Heritage.
Geography Modules may include:
Once you have successfully completed this BA (Hons) Geography, Culture and Heritage course, you might like to consider careers in:
Alternatively, you may wish to progress from BA (Hons) Geography, Culture and Heritage to one of the following courses:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/pgcert-global-entrepreneurship:
Course code N190
Are you spending more time working IN your business than ON your business?
Would you like to learn more to help your business but not sure what or how?
Does your business need to develop a more global outlook to prepare for the future?
If so, this new PgCert Global Entrepreneurship is for you.
This innovative course supports you to respond to the ever-evolving business environment and enables you to study on a part-time basis while starting or growing your business.
The course is aimed at business professionals and new and early stage entrepreneurs who have already gained experience in small business, typically in a number of settings.
Small businesses are the lifeblood of our local and global economies and communities.
Increasingly small business owners are managing a wide range of diverse challenges and opportunities in a dynamic and fast-changing marketplace.
On this programme you will have the opportunity to apply business and entrepreneurial concepts and tools to the strategic challenges you face daily.
Many small businesses invest in training to enhance their technical skills and to achieve compliance, however this programme enables a strategic focus on you, as the business leader, and on the growth of your business.
The course is studied predominantly online, with support from module tutors, your personal mentor and your personal academic tutor, as well as the wider programme team of experienced business professionals.
This triangle of support is unique to the university and, due to the virtual and interactive nature of the course, is available at a time and place to meet your needs.
As a result, the course is focused on providing practical and applied knowledge that will help you to grow and develop your business as well as build your confidence and leadership skills.
It will support you to become increasingly responsive and exploit emerging opportunities in the dynamic global economy.
You will study three core modules:
Semester 1 (September) :
Semester 2 (the following January) :
Semester 3 (the following September) :
For 2022-23, students will get an automatic fee scholarship.
This course is not available for international students requiring Student Route visa sponsorship to study in the UK.
Aimed at existing business professionals, as well as new and early-stage entrepreneurs, this programme is designed to support the strengthening and development of your entrepreneurial mindset and leadership skills, in order that you are able to gain a recognised, internationally-relevant, postgraduate degree while enhancing your personal and business development.
On successful completion of the programme, you will be well-placed to develop and grow your own business or seek employment in a range of settings such as enterprise and economic development.
It is expected that graduates of the programme will be able to demonstrate enhanced global leadership and entrepreneurial capabilities, which are:
This qualification is a fast-paced, immersive learning opportunity, which will give you a distinctive edge in the global business environment and the dynamic job market.
Successful students can progress into a masters level qualification such as the MSc Leadership and Management .
Successful completion of this course is likely to mean that you could be awarded Recognised Prior Learning for up to two modules in the Postgraduate Diploma level of the MSc Leadership and Management programme.
This course is now closed.
Please return to this page for updates on future start dates.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-golf-management:
Course code N290
Base yourself near to one of Scotland's finest championship courses, the world-renowned Royal Dornoch Golf Club, as you learn first-hand how to excel in this multi-billion pound field.
Our BA (Hons) Golf Management course, the first honours degree of its kind in the UK, is aimed at those aspiring to a career in golf, with 82% of recent graduates actively employed in a range of roles in the golfing industry globally.
Take advantage of our blend of golfing and management subjects and participate in a variety of roles, with a particular focus on all aspects of management within a golf context.
Benefit from strong industry links which provide incredible work placements and worldwide employment opportunities, as well as study trips and guest lectures from leading golfing figures.
You will work alongside our BA (Hons) Professional Golf students.
We offer modern student accommodation in Dornoch ideally suited to students on this course.
For International students requiring Student Route sponsorship Please note that international students with a Student Route visa can only take part in sports activities or as part of a work placement, as an amateur and not as a professional or semi-professional.
Year four can be studied online via the university's virtual learning environment (VLE), with support from your tutors, and brings your management and business skills into sharp focus.
You will choose two further option modules which may include:
Once you have successfully completed your golf management degree, you might like to consider the following careers:
You can progress to the PgCert Management in Golf with an honours classification of 2:2 or above.
Studying at the UHI Centre for Golf has opened the door for me to pursue my chosen career in Golf Club Management.
Upon completion of my course, I opted to study for an MSc in Leadership and Management.
This allowed me to further develop my knowledge and understanding of Management and Leadership within the Golf Club environment.
Shortly after I completed my MSc, I was given the opportunity to join the Royal and Ancient Golf of St Andrews as part of their Golf Services Team.
My role at the R&A allows me to combine my love and interest for the traditional Golf Club environment with developing my managerial skill set and learning from the most distinguished Golf Club in the world.
Not only did my time at UHI help lead me to my current role, but it also enabled me to make great improvements to my golf game.
I still play competitively today, and I thank my time at UHI for this.
Caitlin Boa is studying the BA (Hons) Golf Management at our UHI North Highland campus close to Royal Dornoch Golf Club.
In my role of as Golf Services Manager, I was delighted to recently be able to offer the position of Golf Operations Assistant at The Royal and Ancient Golf Club of St Andrews (The R&A) to a UHI graduate.
Throughout the entire recruitment process, they conducted themselves with exceptional professionalism, preparation, and poise.
Their performance was a standout, not only in their knowledge and presentation but also in how they embodied the values and standards that UHI’s golf programmes promote.
As an alumnus of UHI, I was personally very proud to see the high quality of education, training, and character that UHI graduates represents.
It reflects extremely well on the university, the faculty, and the programs offered.
UHI should be very proud of the role you have played in preparing this graduate for success within the golf industry at such a prestigious institution.
I look forward to seeing more of UHI students make their mark in the future.
Sean Burgess is Golf Services Manager at The Royal and Ancient Golf Club of St Andrews.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/pda-health-and-social-care-supervision-scqf-level-7:
Course code 96L5
The PDA Health and Social Care Supervision is designed for those working in the care sector in supervisory roles.
It is approved to meet the registration requirements of the Scottish Social Services Council (SSSC) and also provides continuing professional development (CPD) for first line managers who provide supervision, support and guidance.
Please contact the relevant UHI partner college for more information.
On completion of this PDA you may be able to enhance your career prospects or seek employment in a health/care environment.
Some students may elect to progress to the UHI CPD Award Leading and Managing Care Services if they seek promotion to become a care service manager.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/pda-health-and-social-care-administration-of-medication-scqf-level-7:
Course code 97L5
This course is an essential part of training for all carers involved in the administration of medication in care homes, residential care or care at home services.
The award will become part of the recommended CPD for staff working in this sector.
The PDA consists of two units: Administration of Medication and Administer Medication to Individuals.
This PDA will be studied by students already working within an appropriate health or social care setting and will form part of CPD requirements for SSSC registration.
Following successful completion of the PDA Administration of Medication you may wish to continue to SVQ4 Health & Social Care/Social Services, BA (Hons) Health And Social Studies , or BA (Hons) Child and Youth Studies .

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-health-and-social-studies:
Course code L450
This BA (Hons) Health and Social Studies course focuses on topical health issues including sociology, psychology, public health, rural health issues, health care ethics and the integration of health and social care.
In the first year you will be introduced to the many factors that influence health and wellbeing and the issues which need considered in defining what it means to be healthy.
You will also develop skills in academic enquiry and writing.
The second and third years build on this knowledge and look more closely at health promotion, public health, ethics, partnership working and collaboration, and skills in research.
The fourth year gives the opportunity to further build on knowledge and skills in these areas, and undertake a dissertation.
You may also select one option from outwith this programme, but you can only do this once in an academic year.
Each module represents 200 hours of study in the course of a 14 week semester.
Once you have successfully completed your BA (Hons) Health and Social Studies degree you might like to consider careers in the following areas:
Once you’ve completed your studies, you might like to consider progressing on to further study on our MA Health and Wellbeing course.
I found the tutors extremely knowledgeable and helpful, and the teaching of a very high standard, clearly defining what was required and supported by all the necessary learning material.
The course curriculum is motivational and inspiring.
It really reinforced the necessary skills for a career in health and social care with a broader awareness of social issues.
The experience gained in research methods, such as ethical principles and guidelines, were also particularly helpful to me.
I am now employed in social care and studying at masters level with the intent to pursue research.
I would highly recommend this course, it benefitted me greatly and has really broadened my perspective of health.
Catherine studied the BA (Hons) Health and Social Studies.
If you’re considering a career in health improvement work or public health, I would recommend studying the BA (Hons) Health and Social Studies.
The online and flexible modes of learning were essential to fit studying into my life.
The support I received from my tutors when I became extremely ill during the course was incomparable: if it wasn’t for their input and guidance, I would almost certainly have given up.
The degree gave me the knowledge and confidence to move into a role that I wouldn’t have been able to do previously.
As a result, I’m currently on a 12-month secondment as a Community Food and Health Practitioner, working in the new Type 2 Diabetes Food and Health Service with NHS Highland Nutrition and Dietetics.
Many more opportunities have become available to me, and I’ve been able to apply my learning to my work and get involved in new initiatives happening in the organisation.
I appreciate the bigger picture now and am more confident in new approaches to health improvement.
Linda studied the BA (Hons) Health and Social Studies.
Support from tutors and lecturers was great.
I engaged more as the course went on and this was reflected in my marks.
The collaboration with other students on assignments helped me develop my skills in this area.
I would now feel much more comfortable, and adept, in engaging in future collaborative work.
Overall, the BA (Hons) Health and Social Studies was a great experience.
I found the vast majority of modules very interesting, and felt very well supported in working through them.
Peter studied the BA (Hons) Health and Social Studies.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ma-health-and-wellbeing:
Course code B992
The MA Health and Wellbeing is designed to meet the career development needs of health and social care professionals in the UK.
The course will increase your awareness of the social, technological, economic, political and environmental changes taking place within health and social care, whether in the public, private or voluntary sectors, enabling you to take your career to the next stage.
You will study core modules in the development of local, national and international health and social care policy, the influence of sociology, psychology and ethics on our understanding of health and wellbeing, the issues of health and social care provision in remote and rural areas as well as gaining skills in research methods.
You will study part time through fully-supported online learning, with lectures, tutorials and other materials accessible via the university’s virtual learning environment (VLE).
You will receive regular support from your tutors and peers via online discussions, telephone and email; whichever suits you best.
Postgraduate Loans (SAAS) (Scottish domiciled and EU students)
Loans for tuition fees are available from SAAS for eligible Scotland domiciled and EU students, and loans for living costs for eligible Scottish students.
The MA Health and Wellbeing is made up of two core modules, four optional modules, plus a 60-credit project or dissertation.
To gain the PgCert (60 credits), you will complete both core modules plus one optional module.
*(pre-requisite if you later wish to choose ‘Applying research skills for clinical impact’) **(pre-requisite if you later wish to choose ‘Quality improvement dissertation’) S1 = Semester 1 S2 = Semester 2
To gain the PgDip (a further 60 credits, 120 credits total), you will complete an additional three optional modules.
To achieve the award of MA (a further 60 credits, 180 credits in total), you must also complete one of the following modules:
The number of hours per week indicates the total number of hours you should dedicate to the course, which includes time spent in discussion with tutors and your own time spent on individual study and research.
The programme aims to meet the emerging needs of a wide range of disciplines working to support health and wellbeing in the 21st century.
Students who have completed their award will find enhanced employment opportunities in health and social care sectors.
The programme is designed to provide an enhanced knowledge of health policy and practice, social determinants of health and research.
You may therefore be able to specialise in specific fields such as:
Progression to doctoral level study may be possible.
I was interested in the conceptual relationship between how people perceive their health and wellbeing and how that translates into what we end up producing as an NHS, and how we provide that.
I wanted to gain a better theotroical understand of the underpinnings behind people’s thoughts and feelings about their health and how that interacts with communities, and leads up to the development of the NHS.
I was looking for an online course, and something that would allow me to keep working while studying.
The highlights have been the interactions with different lecturers with a broad spectrum of specialties and the discussion with other students from across the world, so we could have a wide ranging conversation which I found really interesting.
I found the program leader incredibly helpful, she allowed me to think wider and push the boundaries of where I was trying to go.
Chris studied the MA Health and Wellbeing at UHI North, West and Hebrides.
I have been able to use my creativity in a research context and find connections.
You engage with the literature and assert independent thought, and while you draw on theories in the provided materials, you do have license to have independent thought and argument, presenting different arguments.
The highlight has been having the scope to research what I’m passionate about.
I’ve been able to progress academically while growing my business, and still being hands on in therapeutic modalities.
I have a strong professional relationship with my mentor, the programme leader, which has been really helpful.
I’ve been able to draw on her professional advice, even though I was studying remotely.
Julie graduated from the MA Health and Wellbeing at UHI North, West and Hebrides.
I have a very positive working relationship with my Course leader, who is approachable and very understanding.
I know I can email her at any time and will be responded to- the lecturers are encouraging and really want you to achieve your goals.
I appreciate the opportunities of attending my local UHI campus, being able to loan books from alternative UHI libraries and return them without occurring costs.
The UHI campuses are all connected and have a real sense of unity.
Gill studied the MA Health and Wellbeing at UHI North, West and Hebrides.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/pgcert-health-leadership-and-management:
Course code N215
Developing effective leadership skills and capacity is central to improving organisational success and enhancing the quality of service delivery within the NHS.
This innovative and flexible programme is designed to address the leadership challenge facing the NHS .
It is aimed at those who wish to take on a more proactive leadership role within their workplace and affect positive change.
The programme is designed to enhance individual knowledge, skills and understanding that will support the development and application of more effective personal leadership approaches.
It will seek to challenge ideas and pre-conceptions about what leadership means both to the individual and to their world of work.
Indeed, a better understanding of ourselves, and what is going on around us, are both fundamental qualities of effective leadership and management.
An online induction is held in early September and mid-January each year (depending on your start date) which will introduce you to the online learning environment.
For more detailed information about the course modules, please see our Module descriptors document .
Ireland) studying online from home, or assessed as rest of the UK for fee status, the following fees apply:
You may be able to apply for a Government Professional and Career Development Loan .
Once you have successfully completed the PgCert in Health Leadership and Management you will have developed the skills necessary to work in a senior management / leadership position in the health service.
Our experience to date suggests that candidates also take on a range of projects, tasks and activities, which develop and broaden their range of skills to enhance their medium- and long-term career prospects.
With improved confidence you will be better equipped to make decisions at senior level, feel comfortable taking part in high level meetings and have increased motivation.
Following successful completion of the PgCert Health Leadership and Management you may wish to continue to MSc Leadership and Management or MSc Human Resource Management .

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/cpd-award-healthcare-outbreak-management-scqf-level-11:
Course code B99H
As evidenced by recent healthcare outbreaks, being able to critically appraise, analyse and interpret data is critical to the management of outbreaks and reducing the risk of re-occurrence.
This CPD Award Healthcare Outbreak Management module will equip you to critically analyse situation-background-assessment-reports, epidemic curves, and line listings, and identify possible errors when presenting data.
By critically reviewing a current outbreak, you will examine active failures and defences, categories of organisation and culture, current conditions of work, and the legislative framework.
The module draws on the Scottish National Infection Prevention and Control Manual and will equip you with the skills to identify system changes to reduce the risk of outbreaks occurring.
For more details or informal discussion about the module please contact: MSc.ic@uhi.ac.uk .
If English is not your first language, you must have evidence of your English language skills.All non-UK students must have one of the three options below:
You may wish to supplement this CPD Award with further modules from the MSc Infection Prevention and Control Programme, to complete a Post Graduate Certificate or Diploma.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnc-healthcare-practice:
Course code 115L
This course will give you the required skills and knowledge to take advantage of many different career opportunities in nursing, health and allied health professions.
It will also prepare you for the new registration requirements for Health Care Support Workers and is preparation towards becoming an Associate Practitioner.
On completion you will be able to pursue a career in a health-related profession or pre-registration nurse education.
You can also progress to the BA (Hons) Health and Social Studies .
On completion of the HNC Healthcare Practice, you will be able to pursue a career in a health-related profession or pre-registration nurse education including adult nursing, mental health, learning disability and children's nursing, in accordance with the regulations of the Nursing and Midwifery Council.
You may be able to progress to our BSc Adult or Mental Health Nursing , with a B in the graded unit, or to the second year of the BA (Hons) Health and Social Studies .

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnc-healthcare-practice-degree-link:
Course code D15L
Prepare to thrive within today’s health care services, on our HNC Healthcare Practice:  Degree Link course.
This course is for those wishing to articulate into Year 2 of our BSc Adult or Mental Health Nursing degree at UHI.
Learn how to support individuals through all stages of the life cycle, including end-of-life and palliative care.
Develop the skills, knowledge and the critical ability to provide person-centred care, as you learn how to work with individuals, families, and communities to promote health and wellbeing, prevent illness and enable people to maintain and improve their physical and mental health.
Occupational health
Immunisations
18 weeks of the course will be spent on mandatory work placements, working for a total of 37.5 hours per week, which includes any individual study and research.
You will be required to cover the cost of a uniform for your placement (approx £80).
You can progress from HNC Healthcare Practice: Degree Link to year 2 of our BSc Adult or Mental Health Nursing .

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/pgcert-healthcare-quality-improvement:
Course code B9HQ
Are you interested in influencing or effecting changes that will lead to better outcomes for patients or users of health and social care services?
Do you wish to encourage quality improvement across your organisation?
If you would like to be a future quality improvement leader then this PgCert Healthcare Quality Improvement will be of interest to you.
There is increasing interest across the world in innovative approaches to improving quality, and reducing waste, harm and variation in both the public and private sector.
Despite a decrease in mortality from cancer, heart disease and stroke, and an associated increased life expectancy, there is a growing demand for health and social care services.
There is therefore an urgent need to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of health and social care services to ensure they meet the current and predicted future needs of the population.
This programme will give you the opportunity to learn quality improvement methods and approaches.
You will combine the practical application of several quality improvement methods, including the Model for Improvement, Lean, and Patient Safety approaches, with a deep theoretical understanding that can be applied to a wide range of health and social care contexts.
The course includes an emphasis on the critical analysis of improvement methods and the use of quality improvement tools and techniques, to address waste, harm and variation in the health and social care system.
It also reviews person-centred quality care including principles, key drivers and the impact of human interactions on adverse events.
The course is open to a wide range of individuals including nurses, doctors, allied health professionals, care workers, health care scientists, health care managers and administrators, facilities and estates staff.
It is also suitable for people working in health and social care settings in charities or the independent sector, and who have an interest in, or responsibility for, quality improvement.
The course gives you a comprehensive introduction to Quality Improvement in Health and Social Care.
You will be able to use this information to identify how quality improvement principles and approaches can be flexibly applied in your own situation.
Successful completion of the PgCert Healthcare Quality Improvement will lead to enhanced employment opportunities.
Successful students may wish to progress on to a masters level qualification such as our MA Health and Wellbeing .
I developed an interest in quality improvement and healthcare safety throughout my nursing career, and I wanted to take this to the next level.
The various approaches the tutors brought, looking at quality improvement in the healthcare environment, in different way.
The highlight for me was being able to lift the theory from the course content and apply it to different healthcare settings.
The variety of the students on the course was really valuable- I learnt to relate the course content to a variety of healthcare settings.
The Improvement science: enhancing quality in health and social care module, being able to apply the methodology and tools for change, was directly applicable for my work, and has helped me to do my job better.
What you get from studying and understanding the theory behind what it is you are trying to do, is so powerful, it just encourages you to keeping learning.
Sara studied the PgCert Healthcare Quality Improvement.
I’ve been interested in quality improvement within the NHS, where I’ve worked for 20 years.
I work in clinical governance and wanted to study quality and patient safety.
The highlights have been meeting different people, sharing ideas and hearing what they are doing in their areas of work, and learning about the innovate ways of improving quality in the workplace.
The online course provides flexibility, so you can fit in study around work and family.
I currently work in clinical governance, and I deal with adverse events, and looking at sharing advice from adverse events.
One of the main aspects is quality and patient safety, so this course will help me in my day to day.
I’d say to go for it!
I’ve really enjoyed the course, the experience has definitely been worthwhile.
Lorraine studied the PgCert Healthcare Quality Improvement.
Dr Michelle Beattie is a nurse by background and has experience of applying Quality Improvement (QI) in practice.
She has embedded QI curriculum across two academic institutions for UG programmes regulated by the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC).
Of note is the scale - creating hundreds of change agents by developing the practicum (small-scale QI project) as a core assessment for all UG students across over 200 different clinical placement areas in Scotland.
Dr Beattie currently teaches QI to UG students, runs a Masters in Improvement Science and QI MSc dissertation.
She mostly uses Model for Improvement (MFI) but has used Lean and completed Lean Leader training.
Her PhD included designing a metric for patient experience which could be used in improvement (CEFIT).
Dr Beattie combines QI and research with a particular interest in realist methodology.
Dr Michelle Beattie is a lecturer on the PgCert Healthcare Quality Improvement.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/certhe-highland-heritage-for-tourism:
Course code N834
Embark on a uniquely enriching journey as you delve into the heart of the Highlands, exploring its rich heritage and captivating tourism landscape.
Our CertHE Highland Heritage for Tourism course not only immerses you in the cultural tapestry of this iconic region but also imparts invaluable real-life skills and tour guiding expertise.
While tour guide training is a significant component, the emphasis extends to cultivating skills that are transferable across a spectrum of roles, including leadership, adaptability, teamwork, communication, and problem-solving, all of which are indispensable within the hospitality, cultural, heritage, and tourism sectors.
Gain a good understanding of Scotland's historical roots, its current socio-cultural landscape, and the trends shaping its future in the tourism industry and, through examination of the evolution of Scotland's heritage, develop a holistic perspective that will enhance your ability to contribute meaningfully to the sector.
Glean insights directly from industry experts who bring their wealth of experience to the forefront of your learning experience.
This isn't just a programme: it's a transformative exploration where you not only discover the essence of the Highlands but also acquire tangible, transferable skills that elevate your understanding of heritage and tourism, setting you on a path towards professional excellence.
Uncover the secrets of the Highlands with us, where every lesson is a step towards a remarkable future in the world of tourism and heritage.
You may wish to progress from CertHE Highland Heritage for Tourism to other programmes in business, leisure, and tourism, or our range of culture and heritage courses, such as:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/mlitt-highlands-and-islands-literature:
Course code Q500
This exciting taught postgraduate literature course allows you to study the writers and literatures of the Highlands and Islands, in the communities to which they belong.
Trace the footsteps of these inspirational creatives, explore the literary heritage of the area and experience, first hand, the diverse culture of the region.
You will study three main themes throughout the course, namely:
You will benefit from lectures and seminars by local writers, and the team at the Institute for Northern Studies .
Our small classes will give you a more personal study experience during this masters course in Highlands and Islands Literature.
*SPECIAL NOTICE* FUNDING SUPPORT
Students can access the programme from a range of our undergraduate programmes including:
To achieve the award of MLitt Highlands and Islands Literature you must complete a research dissertation.
The number of hours per week indicates the total number of hours you should dedicate to the course, which includes time spent in lectures and your own time spent on individual study and research.
Once you’ve successfully completed the MLitt Highlands and Islands Literature course, you might like to consider careers in:
You can progress to PhD study at the University of the Highlands and Islands, and other institutions.
The MLitt Highlands and Islands Literature has been universally recommended for its use of global concepts of literature in an area-specific context.
It is an ideal programme for students wishing to go on to teacher training.
Professor Donna Heddle, Director of UHI Institute for Northern Studies.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-history:
Course code V210
If you are interested in putting people and society at the centre of your studies of the past, then the BA (Hons) History degree is exactly what you are looking for.
Throughout the course you will investigate the cultural, political, social and economic history of Britain, Europe and the Atlantic World, across a variety of chronologies from medieval to modern, with opportunities to specialise in Scottish History.
Each year, you will build on your analytical and research abilities through a series of skills modules.
In the first and second years, you will follow a broad approach to the study of history from the medieval to the modern period.
In years three and four, you will examine in-depth particular topics of history, allowing you to study specific places, periods, themes and approaches which reflect staff research specialisms, including public and community history.
You can choose to specialise in Scottish History at the upper levels and graduate with a BA (Hons) Scottish History degree.
Other relevant humanities access courses will also be considered on an individual basis.
Semesters 1 or 2
Please note that if you are a direct entrant to second year, we strongly advise that you take the Level 7 core module, What is History?, as one of your options.
Please contact historyhelp@uhi.ac.uk to discuss this further.
You will study the following core module: Semester 2
You will choose four further modules in Semesters 1 or 2 which may include:
You may choose one further option module from other humanities subjects.
If you wish to specialise in Scottish History at Level 10, you are advised to take at least one Scottish History option and undertake a Scottish topic for your Public History project.
You will complete a history dissertation, which is a double-credit module that runs across both semesters.
In addition, you will select four option modules, which may include:
If you wish to exit with a BA (Hons) Scottish History, you must undertake a Scottish History dissertation plus at least two further Scottish History module
Participation in any History field trips or face-to-face activities will be at your own expense.
Costs will vary dependent on your location etc.
Attendance at such face-to-face events is optional and not essential for completion of the course.
A History degree equips you with a whole range of invaluable, transferable skills to prepare you for the world of work beyond your studies.
Once you have successfully completed your BA (Hons) History or BA (Hons) Scottish History degree, potential creer paths include:
I was still quite young when I finished school so although I did consider other universities, I decided to stay close to home.
During my final year I was awarded the Highland Society of London prize which is presented to the best undergraduate dissertation in the Humanities and Gaelic network across the Highlands and Islands.
It was a huge honour to be given that prize and I'm grateful to my UHI mentor who supported me all the way.
My advice to potential applicants would be to do it!
Everything you could possibly imagine is within UHI and you can gain the qualification that you want while staying local.
Caitlin studied the BA (Hons) History at UHI Argyll.
I quickly realised that UHI provided the flexible learning opportunities and variety of content which fitted very neatly with both my interests and my lifestyle.
The encouragement, support, advice and guidance – both collectively and individually – have been truly amazing.
My advice would be to explore everything that UHI has to offer prospective students of all ages, backgrounds and walks of life.
The diversity of opportunities is matched by the breadth and depth of teaching experience and indeed the energy and enthusiasm of the students themselves; this partnership makes studying at UHI a unique and wholly rewarding experience.
This experience has been truly life-changing and I will forever be grateful for the opportunities afforded to me by UHI staff and fellow students.
Scott studies the BA (Hons) History at UHI Perth.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/mlitt-history:
Course code V201
This online programme provides a broader history award, both thematically and geographically, than our MLitt History of the Highlands and Islands .
Throughout the MLitt History you may have the option to investigate the cultural, political, social and economic history of Britain, Europe and the Atlantic World.
You will also develop skills in historiographical and primary source research, oral history and palaeography.
Taught from the Centre for History in the Highlands, the MLitt History is available from anywhere in the world.
Postgraduate Loans (SAAS) (Scottish domiciled students)
Loans for tuition fees are available from SAAS for eligible Scotland domiciled students, and loans for living costs for eligible Scottish students.
You must complete ONE of the above core modules to enable you to exit with the PgCert.
You must also undertake at least one of the following options during your studies (which can be at this stage, or the next level):
You can also choose further option modules (to make a total of three modules overall), which may include:
You will choose three further modules from those listed in the PgCert.
To achieve the award of MLitt History you must complete a 60-credit research dissertation.
Number of hours per week indicates the total number of hours you should dedicate to the course, which includes time spent in lectures and online class discussion and your own time spent on individual study and research.
On completion of this MLitt History, you may wish to pursue a career in:
You may wish to progress to further study such as PhD or MRes at the University of the Highlands and Islands or another institution.
Aside from the knowledge of Highlands and Islands history in the larger context of Scottish and world history, my greatest knowledge gain has been in the ability to think critically, deeply and widely about issues, and to write at a level required for publication.
Theresa Mackay studied online from Canada and graduated with distinction from our MLitt History in September 2016.
Her studies have led her to her current role as Assistant Professor at Royal Roads University in Victoria, British Columbia, Canada.
The ongoing nature of academic research ensures that the Centre for History staff are constantly working to better their knowledge and understanding of the subjects they teach, which are also largely the subjects they themselves research.
Students feel the benefit of this in teaching, but more than that, they often contribute to and help develop staff research interests simply through the interaction in which both staff and students are engaged.
Dr Iain MacInnes, Centre for History

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-history-and-archaeology:
Course code V21A
If you’re interested in delving into the past using different methods, this joint-honours degree gives you an excellent grounding in the study and practice of history and archaeology.
In the BA (Hons) History and Archaeology you will explore history from the medieval to the modern period, focusing on the cultural, political, social and economic history of Scotland, Britain, Europe and the Atlantic World.
In addition, you can choose to specialise in Scottish History at upper level, enabling you to graduate with a BA (Hons) Scottish History and Archaeology.
You will also develop a wide range of archaeological skills such as fieldwork, surveying and post-excavation, which are mapped to the current occupational standards for archaeology, increasing your employability after graduation.
You will study the following history modules:
You will also study the following archaeology modules:
You will study two further option modules from a range of history, Scottish history, archaeology and other humanities subjects.
You will also study the following core archaeology module:
You will study:
History modules may include:
Students wishing to specialise in Scottish History at Level 10 are advised to take at least one Scottish History option and undertake a Scottish topic for your Public History project, or two Scottish History options if you are not taking Public History.
You will take the following core Archaeology modules:
Archaeology options may include:
You will complete a dissertation in history or archaeology.
This is a double-credit module that runs across both semesters.
If you wish to exit with a BA (Hons) Scottish History and Archaeology degree you must undertake a Scottish History dissertation plus at least one further Scottish History and one History module, OR, if you are undertaking an Archaeology dissertation, two of the three History modules must be in Scottish History.
You will be responsible for covering the costs of any travel and subsistence associated with participation in the Archaeology Excavation Skills module and the Archaeology Placement.
On successful completion of the BA (Hons) History and Archaeology or BA (Hons) Scottish History and Archaeology, you may wish to consider career opportunities in:
Caitlin studied History at UHI Argyll.
I wanted to study here because the reputation and calibre of both Scottish History teaching and the Archaeology Institute at UHI were so high there was no other alternative that was attractive.
My favourite module was about the Jacobites, the “Patriots, Rebels and Opportunists”.
There was a project as part of that module, and I was able to spend time in the Highland Archive Centre in the libraries and came across documents from 1745, which was very exciting!
I was thrilled being able to handle documents which were over 250 years old that had passed through Jacobite hands, and I was then able to use in my project.
Preparation for each module was thorough, feedback was timeous and precise for all assignments aimed at encouraging improvement and progression throughout the levels of learning each academic year.
The chosen list of reading materials was always appropriate and current, including the latest academic thinking of the subject matter.
The library staff and system deserves a special mention.
The support they offer was crucial and they often went above and beyond expectations in providing access to materials.
This was especially so during final year dissertation project work.
Michael studied the BA (Hons) Scottish History and Archaeology at UHI Inverness.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/mlitt-history-and-archaeology-of-the-highlands-and-islands:
Course code V2V4
This programme brings together the disciplines of history and archaeology through the study of a specific region, the Highlands and Islands of Scotland.
Whether you live locally, or globally, if you have an interest in developing transferable skills in the study of regional pasts, specifically of the north and west of Scotland, the MLitt History and Archaeology of the Highlands and Islands has been designed for you.
You must complete BOTH modules to enable you to exit with the PgCert.
You will also choose one history or archaeology option module, which may include any of the below.
History - any available option module from the MLitt History of the Highlands and Islands, which may include:
You will choose three further modules from those listed in the PgCert, ensuring an even split across the two subjects.
Please note: if you wish to undertake a dissertation in archaeology, you must take the Semester 2 module ‘Research and dissertation skills’ as one of your archaeology options.
To achieve the award of MLitt you must complete a 60-credit research dissertation in either history or archaeology.
You can study this fully online programme from anywhere in the world.
You will be enrolled through the university's Centre for History and will have support from the centre's expert staff and researchers as well as those from the university's Archaeology Institute.
If students wish to undertake the excavation module, they will be responsible for covering the costs of any travel and subsistence involved.
Once you have successfully completed your MLitt History and Archaeology of the Highlands and Islands, there are a variety of careers you might like to consider.
Here is a taster of the kind of opportunities available to you:
The Centre for History leads on five taught postgraduate degrees.
Our students come from a diversity of backgrounds, in terms of age, location and motivation.
Our programmes train students in the research methods used by historians and seek to open up a range of new perspectives on local, regional, national, and global themes, from the medieval to the modern.
I bring my own research on Scottish migration to Europe and on coastal history to my postgraduate teaching, while I’ve found that the students, in turn, influence me and give me all sorts of unexpected and welcome new perspectives on my research.
Professor David Worthington, head of the Centre for History, University of the Highlands and Islands.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-history-and-criminology:
Course code V21C
The BA (Hons) History and Criminology covers a range of approaches, from thematic modules that cover a variety of places and historical periods, to concentrated and in-depth studies of the changing nature of crime and the social, political, historical and individual forces behind these changes.
Each year, you will build on your analytical and research abilities through a series of skills modules in both History and Criminology.
You can also choose to specialise in Scottish History at the upper levels and graduate with a BA (Hons) Scottish History and Criminology degree.
Plus, a choice of one of the following modules:
You will also study the following modules:
You will choose two  further option modules from a range of history, criminology, politics and other humanities subjects.
You will choose two  further option modules from a range of history, Scottish history, criminology, politics and other humanities subjects.
You will study one of the two core project modules:
You will also study a further five option modules, ensuring a balance of three History modules and three Criminology modules in total.
Students wishing to specialise in Scottish History at Level 10 are advised to take at least one Scottish History option, and undertake a Scottish topic for your Public History project, or two Scottish History options if you are not taking Public History.
You will complete a dissertation in History or Criminology.
If you wish to exit with a BA (Hons) Scottish History and Criminology degree you must undertake a Scottish History dissertation plus one further Scottish history or history module, OR, if you are undertaking a Criminology dissertation, two of the three History modules must be in Scottish History.
Participation in any field trips or face-to-face activities will be at your own expense.
Once you have successfully completed the BA (Hons) History and Criminology or BA (Hons) Scottish History and Criminology you might like to consider careers in:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-history-and-literature:
Course code V21L
The joint honours degree in history and literature allows you to turn your passion for the past and for writing into an interesting career.
The BA (Hons) History and Literature covers a range of approaches, from thematic modules that cover a variety of places and historical periods, to concentrated and in-depth studies of a particular group of authors or periods of history.
You can also choose to specialise in Scottish History at the upper levels and graduate with a BA (Hons) Scottish History and Literature degree.
You will also study the following two modules:
You will study two further option modules from a range of history, literature, and other humanities subjects.
Plus, a choice of one of the following three modules:
You will also study two modules which may include:
You will also study a further five option modules, ensuring a balance of three History modules and three Literature modules in total.
You will complete a dissertation in history or literature.
If you wish to exit with a BA (Hons) Scottish History and Literature degree you must undertake a Scottish History dissertation plus one further Scottish history or history module, OR, if you are undertaking a Literature dissertation, two of the three History modules must be in Scottish History.
Costs will vary dependent on student location etc.
Once you have successfully completed the BA (Hons) History and Literature or BA (Hons) Scottish History and Literature, you might like to consider careers in:
I saw that UHI had a joint degree in Scottish History and Literature so I thought that’s really what I want to do!
There was lots of support and I made friends really quickly in my class.
I like that at UHI students and lecturers work very closely together.
Smaller class sizes gives the opportunity for a more personal approach and for the students to get exactly the support they need.
The Highlands are a very beautiful, inspirational place to live and work.
I cannot see myself moving anywhere else again – it is very special to live in a place that has both, the sea and mountains, with a lot of vast, untouched land to explore.
Rebecca studied BA (Hons) Scottish History and Literature at UHI Inverness.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-history-and-politics:
Course code V21P
This joint honours degree in history and politics offers you the chance to study two distinct but complementary subjects, based in the Highlands and Islands of Scotland, yet with an international approach that will prepare you for life and employment beyond university.
As you progress through the course, you will choose from a combination of modules, equally balanced between history and politics.
You will study the history and politics of Scotland, Britain, Europe, North Atlantic and North America.
You can also choose to specialise in Scottish History at the upper levels and graduate with a BA (Hons) Scottish History and Politics degree.
Plus, a choice of one of the following history modules:
You will also choose two further option modules from a range of history, politics, and other humanities subjects.
You will study one of the following core project modules:
You will also study a further five option modules, ensuring a balance of three History modules and three Politics modules in total.
Students wishing to specialise in Scottish History at Level 10 are advised to take at least one Scottish History option, plus undertake a Scottish topic for your Public History project, or two Scottish History options if you are not taking Public History.
You will complete a dissertation in History or Politics.
If you wish to exit with a BA (Hons) Scottish History and Politics degree you must undertake a Scottish History dissertation plus one further Scottish history or history module, OR, if you are undertaking a Politics dissertation, two of the three History modules must be in Scottish History.
Once you have successfully completed the BA (Hons) History and Politics or BA (Hons) Scottish History and Politics, there are a variety of careers you might like to consider, such as:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-history-and-sociology:
Course code V21S
The BA (Hons) History and Sociology covers a range of approaches, from thematic modules that cover a variety of places and historical periods, to concentrated and in-depth studies of the development, structure, and functioning of human society.
Each year, you will build on your analytical and research abilities through a series of skills modules in both History and Sociology.
You can also choose to specialise in Scottish History at the upper levels and graduate with a BA (Hons) Scottish History and Sociology degree.
You will study the following two core modules:
You will study two further option modules from a range of history, politics, criminology and other humanities subjects.
You will also study the following core modules:
You will also study a further five option modules, ensuring a balance of three History modules and three Sociology modules in total.
You will complete a dissertation in history or sociology.
If you wish to exit with a BA (Hons) Scottish History and Sociology degree you must undertake a Scottish History dissertation plus one further Scottish history or history module, OR if you are undertaking a Sociology dissertation, two of the three History modules must be in Scottish History.
Once you have successfully completed the BA (Hons) History and Sociology or BA (Hons) Scottish History and Sociology, you might like to consider careers in:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-history-and-theology:
Course code V21T
The BA (Hons) History and Theology is led by HTC and the university's Centre for History, both of which possess recognised expertise in their respective fields.
This joint degree provides a distinctive study opportunity combining two different but complementary subjects
The history element provides a thorough examination of medieval, early modern and modern Britain, Europe and the wider world.
The theology element, while also engaging with other Christian traditions, focuses on theology, primarily from an evangelical and Reformed perspective.
You can also choose to specialise in Scottish History at the upper levels and graduate with a BA (Hons) Scottish History and Theology degree.
Access to Christian Theology at our university and other relevant humanities access courses will also be considered on an individual basis.
You will choose two from the following modules:
You will study two further option modules from a range of history, theology, and other humanities subjects.
You will study two of the following modules:
You will complete a dissertation in history or theology.
If you wish to exit with a BA (Hons) Scottish History and Theology degree you must undertake a Scottish History dissertation plus one further Scottish history or history module, OR if you are undertaking a Theology dissertation, two of the three History modules must be in Scottish History.
Once you have successfully completed the BA (Hons) History and Theology or BA (Hons) Scottish History and Theology, you might like to consider careers in:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/mlitt-history-of-the-highlands-and-islands:
Course code V200
This online Masters in the History of the Highlands and Islands is the first ever taught postgraduate course to focus on the colourful and often conflict-driven history of the Highlands and Islands of Scotland, from medieval times to the 20th century.
It is a truly interactive course that involves extensive use of primary source material including oral history testimony, material from physical and online archives and newspapers.
Critical thinking is essential to the topics covered as is a sensitivity to the way history interacts with memory.
You will study a range of subjects that will not only spark your interest and emotions, but may also cause you to begin to question stereotypes and cherished myths.
Taught from the Centre for History in the Highlands, the MLitt History is available to study from anywhere in the world.
You must complete ONE of the above core modules to enable you to exit with the PgCert.
To achieve the award of MLitt History of the Highlands and Islands you must complete a 60-credit research dissertation.
On completion of this MLitt History of the Highlands and Islands, you may wish to pursue a career in:
Studying with students from around the world in the supportive academic community fostered by the Centre for History has provided a rich learning environment and has given me a network I will now have for life.
Theresa Mackay, MLitt History of the Highlands and Islands student.
My research immerses me in the epic changes in religion, education, the family, settlement patterns and migration which defined the early nineteenth century Highlands.
I especially enjoy collaborating with local communities to explore the roots of these shifts and how their effects resonate today.
Through the MLitt and PhD programmes it is tremendously exciting to encourage and to learn from students as they delve into their own research.
Dr Elizabeth Ritchie, Centre for History.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-history-with-gaelic-studies:
Course code V21G
The History element of this degree will allow you to examine, in detail, key themes in history from the medieval period to the present day.
You will have the opportunity to analyse social, cultural, economic, political and demographic change within Scotland, and its links with Britain, Europe and the wider world.
This degree will also allow you to do more than just study History, as it gives those with an interest in Gaelic language, culture and society the opportunity to take optional modules in these areas and have this recognised in their degree award.
Delivered by a blended learning format, students will benefit from collaborative discussions and activities with colleagues from a range of diverse backgrounds and experiences, facilitated by tutors with many years of experience in delivering online education.
Each year, you will also build on your analytical and research abilities through a series of skills modules.
PLUS a choice of two of the following modules:
Gaelic Studies
If you are a fluent Gaelic speaker, Gaelic medium modules may be available.
You will choose one further option module from a range of history, literature, archaeology and other humanities subjects, including Gaelic Studies options, which may include:
Plus a choice of two of the following modules:
You will also study two modules that may include:
You will choose one further option module from a range of history, literature, archaeology and other humanities subjects, including Gaelic studies - these may include:
Please note that if you are a direct entrant to second year, we strongly advise that you take the Level 7 core module, What is History?, as your option.
You will undertake the following core module:
Plus three modules which may include:
Students wishing to specialise in Scottish History at Level 10 and exit with a BA (Hons) Scottish History with Gaelic Studies are advised to take at least one Scottish History option, plus undertake a Scottish topic for their Public History project, or two Scottish History options.
You will also study two modules which may include:
In fourth year, you will be required to undertake a dissertation in History.
You will also choose two options that may include:
If you wish to exit with a BA (Hons) Scottish History with Gaelic Studies, you must undertake a Scottish History dissertation plus at least one further Scottish History module.
Once you have successfully completed the the BA (Hons) History with Gaelic Studies or BA (Hons) Scottish History with Gaelic Studies, you might like to consider careers in:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnc-horticulture:
Course code 454D
This HNC Horticulture has been designed by our subject specialists to provide you with an engaging and comprehensive introduction into the world of commercial horticulture and landscape.
The course structure enables you to learn by working on projects, as you would in real life, and the content reflects a broad range of contemporary topics.
The number of assessments has been considered so that you can spend more time learning.
You will be taught by experienced horticulture lecturers with real world experience: the teaching team includes specialists in conservation and the environment, as well as an award-winning garden designer.
Throughout the course you will be introduced to areas of specialism and develop an understanding of the evolving nature of horticultural science and the exciting range of career possibilities.
You’ll gain practical and theoretical knowledge which will prepare you for employment at craft level in this diverse industry.
Modules include:
The Chartered Institute of Horticulture also provides information on many available horticulture scholarships and grants, please visit their site for further details .
Practical learning may be delivered on campus or in conjunction with a partner organisation, and may be delivered in blocks.
You should be prepared to travel to the site, which will always be located within commuting distance of your local campus.
You may wish to progress from HNC Horticulture to the following courses:
I love horticulture and wanted to study it further.
I chose UHI as I could stay at home, and still study what I am interested in.
The mix of delivery styles allows teaching by experts across Scotland, so the best knowledge is passed on.
I was really happy with the practical teaching, something employers really want to see.
The class gathering weekly allows us to enjoy the social aspects of education as well.
I joined the UHI Green Champions Network which opened up interesting discussions on how the campuses across Scotland could be more sustainable and eco-friendly.
I also got the chance to attend lectures from expert scientists and ecologists.
It is so beautiful here, with amazing places to explore.
The Highlands and Moray are filled with underappreciated sites of natural beauty.
Gallia studied HNC Horticulture at UHI Moray.
Two years ago, I went to an open day at UHI’s Helensburgh campus and asked if I could join the HNC Horticulture.
I graduated last summer with a ton of new knowledge and immediately signed up for the HND.
I used my new qualifications to apply for a position at the National Trust for Scotland and now work for the beautiful Greenbank Garden in Glasgow, with lots of good days ahead doing a job I love.
Fiona studied HNC and HND Horticulture at UHI Argyll.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnd-horticulture:
Course code 214D
Deepen and develop your horticultural knowledge and practical skills on our hands-on HND Horticulture.
Developed by horticultural experts in association with plant specialists and employers in the industry, stay up to date with current developments and practices on this multi-specialism course, cultivating the skills required for success in this diverse field.
Learn from experienced horticulturists, botanists, and ecologists from across Scotland and benefit from their wealth of industry experience.
Join like-minded students across the country in live online lecturers and practical work, as you develop your theoretical knowledge and practical skills, with assessments via project work, developed with support from your lecturers throughout the year.
Whether you dream of growing your own horticultural business or branching out into supervisory and managerial roles in existing horticultural enterprises, let us support you as you take your next steps in this stimulating and varied career.
For entry to year 1, HNC Horticulture :
Year 1 of this course is HNC Horticulture
You will study the following modules across both semesters:
The Chartered Institute of Horticulture also provides information on many available horticulture scholarships and grants, which may be of help with equipment, travel, placements etc.
Please visit their site for further details .
You may wish to pursue further studies on courses such as BSc (Hons) Horticulture.
Gallia studied Horticulture at UHI Moray.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/pda-hospitality-scqf-level-7:
Course code 95N8
Professional Development Awards (PDAs) extend or broaden professional or vocational skills and are linked to National Occupational Standards.
This PDA Hospitality (SCQF level 7) supports continuing professional development for individuals who hold, or aspire to hold, team leading or supervisory roles within the hospitality industry.
The course is designed to help address the well-documented and ongoing management skills gap in the sector, and is suitable for learners who:
Many supervisors and managers in the sector have been promoted to senior positions on the basis of their experience but without qualifications.
This PDA will allow them to gain practical and specialist skills at a high level along with certification for the level of work that they are performing.
Modules will include:
Students may be required to purchase Chef Whites and Restaurant Uniform for relevant practical sessions (approx £50).
On completion of your course you might like to consider Supervisory/Management roles in:
You may wish to progress from PDA Hospitality (SCQF Level 7) to the following courses:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-hospitality-management:
Course code NN28
Make the most of an incredible opportunity to study and work with the best in Scottish hospitality by joining us on our BA (Hons) Hospitality Management.
Gain a world-renowned qualification in a country that excels in the field, with paid placements in partner organisations or your existing workplace.
Have the experience of a lifetime, with interviews at our partners across Perthshire, including the world-renowned Gleneagles Hotel, and guaranteed placements in the local area.
Enjoy a beautiful work setting in our rooftop restaurant looking across the city of Perth, and work alongside trainee chefs to create traditional and fusion Scottish recipes, fine dining menus, gastro-style burgers and a range of cuisines to offer the experience of local and international cultures.
Work closely with our Professional Cookery course, plus local and international students, to create and run every element of the themed events held in the Brahan restaurant: working on everything from the props to the room design, engage with customers and support each other as a team throughout your course.
In year 2, it's your turn!
Choose your theme, plan your event and run your own night as general manager, with support from the rest of your group; with recent themes as varied as Phantom of the Opera, Disney, Field to Fork, Alice in Wonderland, and the Elements, there are incredible opportunities to unleash your creativity, while gathering all of the knowledge you'll need to be a success in the Hospitality industry.
Browse a selection of our menus from recent themed events here!
Entry to year one HNC:
Year one of the course is either:
There are two routes that can be taken in your final year, with the option to take a standard approach (route A) or combine your final year study with work to complete an internship (route B).
Route A You will study the following core modules:
You will also choose two of the following option modules:
Route B You will study the following core modules:
You will be required to cover costs for restaurant and kitchen uniforms (approx £50-150).
You will also be responsible for any additional costs incurred when travelling to and from work placements.
Once you have successfully completed this course, you will be equipped to consider careers in:
On successful completion of the BA (Hons) Hospitality Management, and with  relevant professional experience, you may wish to progress onto one of  the following postgraduate courses:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnc-hospitality-operations:
Course code 522N
Hospitality is a thriving industry, with varied career options both nationally and internationally, spanning hotels, restaurants, pubs, leisure, and travel.
It’s an exciting field that demands skilled, well-trained professionals—and this course is your opportunity to master the supervisory skills needed for a dynamic and rewarding career.
Our hospitality programmes are designed to immerse you in hands-on, exciting experiences.
From honing your craft in our state-of-the-art kitchens to collaborating with top industry partners, you’ll gain the skills and confidence to thrive in this fast-paced, ever-growing sector.
On completion of your course, you might like to consider a career as a trainee manager in:
You may be able to progress to year 2 of our BA (Hons) Hospitality Management .

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/cpd-award-host-defence-and-protection-scqf-level-11:
Course code B99HD
Successful prevention and control of infectious diseases requires knowledge and understanding of the host-pathogen interaction.
This CPD Award Host Defence and Protection module will explain how the components of the immune system act in a coordinated fashion to protect the individual from infectious diseases.
Vaccines have been developed to augment the protection given to an individual by their immune system and also protect the population as a whole.
Whilst the use of antimicrobial agents has revolutionised the treatment of infectious diseases, their inappropriate use has led to the emergence of resistant organisms.
Anyone working in the infection control field can improve their knowledge of antimicrobial agents and vaccines, and their strengths and weaknesses, with this module.
For more details and /or informal discussion about the module please contact: MSc.ic@uhi.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/msc-human-resource-management:
Course code N690
Our CIPD accredited Post Graduate Diploma/MSc in Human Resource Management will give you the key skills and expertise which will enable you to make a significant contribution to people management practice within any organisation.
Aimed at both newly-qualified graduates and those already working in the field of people management, as well as individuals who see their careers developing in this direction, both the Post Graduate Diploma and the MSc are accredited by the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD) as an advanced-level qualification and provides you (on successful completion) with Associate Membership of CIPD.
The course has been designed with flexibility in mind and is delivered by experienced HR practitioners through a structured online programme.
*You will be required to join the CIPD as a student member if you wish to receive Associate or Chartered Membership on completing the award.
You will also choose one option module from the following:
You will also choose one of the remaining option modules from the following:
To achieve the award of MSc you will study the following core modules:
*6 hours per week per module
This programme prepares students to operate as HR professionals and in the management of human resources, within a wide range of private, public and third sector organisations.
You will be eligible to seek Associate Membership of the CIPD, the professional body for HR specialists.
If you work in human resources or learning and development, at managerial or strategic level, you can apply to upgrade from Associate Member to Chartered Member or Chartered Fellow.
The mix of business with current affairs is so interesting and the lecturer David Jack is really supportive.
The group I’m currently studying with are a fab bunch and are very friendly.
I enjoy the contemporary feel of the course and the tutorials, and the online resources are great too.
I’m looking forward to continuing my studies, gaining in-depth knowledge and furthering my skills in my current HR role.
Pauline studied the PG Certificate in Human Resource Management at UHI Inverness.
The knowledge I obtained helped me to win a prestigious cHeRries award for Excellent HR Manager 2022.
I particularly enjoyed the fact that I was able to undertake structured learning and found the lecturers very helpful.
I found the style of teaching very convenient as I was able to study around my full-time job.
The materials were available online which supported flexible learning.
I was able to study during my pregnancy and received great support from the lecturers.
I can fully recommend this course to anyone who is prepared to study hard and show determination as the end result is well worth it.
Sarah studied the MSc Human Resource Management at UHI Inverness.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/pda-hydrogen-an-introduction-for-technicians-scqf-level-7:
Course code 009J
This course is aimed at anyone already employed in, or looking to pursue a career in, the energy sector, who wishes to gain a nationally recognised award.
The modules cover the safe handling of hydrogen gas, and the operation and design of the systems used to produce, store, transport, convert, and consume hydrogen as an alternative fuel in a range of renewable energy sectors.
You will also learn about the science behind what makes hydrogen suitable as an alternative fuel.
This PDA is the only nationally recognised qualification in Scotland dedicated to hydrogen, and is delivered by highly skilled and knowledgeable staff.
The award has been designed in close consultation with the Scottish hydrogen sector, so you can be sure that the content is relevant, up to date, and in accordance with industry needs.
PDA (3 x HN units)
£258
Ireland, including Channel Islands and the Isle of Man) and with a term-time address in Scotland, or assessed as rest of UK for fee status, the following fees apply:
£1,422
£1,488
£1,755
£1,785
Although this course is mostly online, you will also attend a residential session in Stornoway for between 3-4 days (duration will be dependent on your previous experience).
There is no additional fee for the practical course, however you will be responsible for arranging and funding your travel and accommodation for this session.
You may wish to progress from PDA Hydrogen: an Introduction for Technicians (SCQF level 7) to the following courses:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/msc-infection-prevention-and-control:
Course code B990
Promoting and developing best practice in the field of infection prevention and control is a pressing issue for professionals and the community as a whole.
The issues facing hospital and community staff evolve quickly and IPC practitioners must be equipped to respond appropriately.
This innovative postgraduate course in Infection Prevention and Control has been designed to help you deal safely and effectively with infection risks.
You will develop your confidence and expertise in the management and implementation of infection control change.
If you have to deal with infection as part of your job, or if you’d like to widen your knowledge and be in a position to apply for more senior posts in infection control, the MSc Infection Prevention and Control can help you achieve these goals.
Core module:
Option modules, from which you choose two, may include:
*You must choose one of these modules if you wish to continue to the MSc
To achieve the award of MSc Infection Control you must complete a research dissertation related to your professional field.
The number of hours per week indicates the total number of hours you should dedicate to the course, which includes time spent in discussion with tutors and your own time spent on individual study and research.
Progression to PhD study may be possible.
If you are a returning student and wish to continue your studies from PgDip level, please contact msc.ic@uhi.ac.uk for more information.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/pda-information-technology-in-business:
Course code 99G5
The Professional Development Award (PDA) in Information Technology in Business at SCQF level 7 delivers the skills and knowledge needed for a range of administrative roles.
It has particular emphasis on the use of IT within a business environment.
Three units (32 SCQF credits in total):
The PDA is 32 SCQF (Scottish Credit and Qualification Framework) credits.
£2,380
On successful completion of this course you might like to consider applying for office-related jobs.
You can progress on to our HNC Business course.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/bsc-hons-integrative-healthcare:
Course code B340
The BSc (Hons) Integrative Healthcare is the only course of its kind in Scotland and has been developed in consultation with industry to closely reflect the changing requirements of the healthcare sector in the UK and abroad.
Healthcare practitioners face ever more challenges that require new and innovative approaches to addressing the healthcare needs of 21st century clients; increasingly, additional or alternative methods of care, such as complementary therapies, are being considered.
In this course, you will develop an in-depth knowledge and understanding of complementary therapies, research and healthcare, while enhancing your analytical, critical-thinking and problem-solving skills.
A critical awareness of current issues and developments in complementary therapies will also form part of the programme.
Throughout the degree, there is an emphasis on the wide range of diverse and complex perspectives of health, particularly social policy, ethics, the law, politics, physiology and sociology.
As you progress through the programme, your learning will become more self-directed: years three and four will be fully-online, with attendance only required for a two-day induction in each of the years.
Two virtual residentials will also take place in years three and four, one per semester each year.
An online induction programme will be available prior to the start of each of the four years to help you get the most from your studies.
This will allow you the flexibility to study from your own location.
Advanced entry to year two may be possible with:
Advanced entry to year three may be possible with:
Both semesters
You will also choose one of the following optional modules: Semester 1
You will also choose two option modules, one from each of the following semesters: Semester 1
Studying
Residentials
Inductions
Additional costs will be applicable for some elements of this course.
This will include therapy uniform, appropriate complementary therapy equipment, and consumables, relevant to the therapies you will study for practice at home.
The BSc (Hons) Integrative Healthcare programme will equip you with the understanding and skills to benefit a range of clients with complex conditions.
You may wish to develop your career within the following areas:
On successful completion you may progress on to the university's MA Health and Wellbeing .
I did not consider any other universities, as UHI was the only place in Scotland to cover this course and so I felt very lucky to get a place!
I feel my studies and having the degree gave me a confidence boost.
Studying at this level I think gives others the confidence in you that you know what you are doing and shows that you believe in integrative healthcare so much that you are willing to learn as much as possible about the subject.
I would say go for it!
It can feel very daunting and be a lot of work at times but that sense of achievement when you do well or complete the modules and then eventually the course is great!
You will never look back and think I wish I didn’t do that course!
Paula studied the BSc (Hons) Integrative Healthcare at UHI Moray.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/cpd-award-integrative-healthcare-cpd-suite:
Course code B34I
This exciting new CPD Suite has been designed to provide you with unique opportunities to study Integrative Healthcare modules that are most relevant to you and your career.
With an extensive offering that caters for all levels, it particularly supports those who can only commit to part-time learning and contains fresh modules for continuing or returning learners.
This CPD Suite aims to help you:
Module packages available at SCQF level 7 are:
Module packages available at SCQF level 8 are:
Module packages available at SCQF level 9 are:
Module packages available at SCQF level 10 are:
You may need to purchase uniform for SCQF Level 7 and 8 courses, at an approximate cost of £50.
You may wish to progress from your chosen CPD Award to the BSc (Hons) Integrative Healthcare .

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/bsc-hons-interactive-media:
Course code I610
Interactive media: a collection of varied technologies, combined to provide a user experience via digital platforms such as websites, mobile apps, software applications, and interactive installations - the opportunities are endless.
Explore digital content creation, graphic design, 2D/3D animation, video and audio production, and more, in this BSc (Hons) Interactive Media.
Gain real experience and understanding in the development of interactive and digital media products, experiment with several key specialities and work with external clients on live industry projects
Let loose with your creativity, develop key entrepreneurial qualities, and get the solid theoretical and technical understanding you need to succeed in this thriving field.
Entry to year one, HNC Digital Design and Web Development :
Year 1 of this course is the HNC Digital Design and Web Development
You will also select one of the following:
You will choose one of the following option modules:
You will learn through a combination of face-to-face and video conference lectures and tutorials, and online study via the university's virtual learning environment (VLE), making use of online learning materials and collaborative tools.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/pda-internal-verification-of-workplace-assessment-scqf-level-8:
Course code 94X2
The PDA in Internal Verification of Workplace Assessment will develop your knowledge and skills in monitoring assessment processes and decisions within your organisation.
The internal quality assurance process being conducted can be for SVQs, work based qualifications or in-company standards.
This award is divided into the following four elements, you will write a report for each element:
Completion of this award will qualify candidates to work as Assessors and Verifiers within their own organisation.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/msc-interpretation-management-and-practice:
Course code N210
If you are enthusiastic about creating unforgettable visitor experiences that help people engage with heritage and learn in creative ways, then this innovative postgraduate course is for you.
Interpretation encompasses a variety of activities, from guided walks to multi-million-pound exhibitions, which help to explain the significance of places and resources in a meaningful way.
It provides value to communities and organisations through the creation of successful visitor experiences that encourage appreciation of the resource and economic benefit.
A team of highly experienced tourism and heritage professionals and academics deliver this online Masters course, supported by experts engaged in exciting heritage and environmental projects around the world.
Online lectures, interviews with practitioners, presentations, industry case studies, e-books and academic articles are complemented by regular discussions with tutors and fellow students.
Assessment is varied and includes the production of industry-related plans and reports that give you the opportunity to put the skills and knowledge you have gained through your learning, into real-life scenarios that will benefit you in the workforce.
Through a number of employer-informed modules and engagement with real-life projects, you will gain the knowledge and skills required to become an inspiring and effective interpretation professional.
Entry from the university's undergraduate programmes is possible.
Option modules, of which you must choose three, may include:
To achieve the award of MSc Interpretation: Management and Practice you must complete a Research Dissertation (S1 and S2).
As well as considering new posts in the public, private or voluntary/third sector at officer, manager or senior management level, the continuing professional development (CPD) opportunities from this Interpretation: Management and Practice course could lead to promotion in your existing employment, or self-employment.
Progression to PhD is possible.
There are many reasons why I feel this was the right course for me.
The flexibility allowed me to study while working full-time and raising children.
The modules were diverse and I enjoyed the ability to select among them based on my interests and future career goals.
Beyond this, as an international student in Texas, I valued the interactions with tutors and students from other parts of the world, with everyone bringing unique perspectives based upon interpretive sites and visitor experiences in their geographic areas.
Even though I was studying thousands of miles away from UHI, I never felt ‘alone’ in my studies, my experience at UHI was very positive and I have many wonderful memories of it!
Courtney studied MSc in Interpretation: Management and Practice at UHI Perth.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/cpd-award-introduction-to-cyber-security-scqf-level-7:
Course code I101
This module is aimed at qualified primary and secondary teachers who wish to develop the knowledge, understanding and problem-solving skills related to teaching basic cyber security, and are configuring an environment suitable for cyber security education.
The module will help develop an understanding of cyber security and cyber resilience, as well as the relationship between these two areas of security.
You will study the Introduction to Cyber Security module.
You will learn about:
Part-time (structured): 1 semester @ 20 hours per week (a semester is approximately 14 weeks)
This course is fully online.
You will be enrolled and receive support from tutors at UHI Inverness.
This course is not available to students domiciled outside of the UK or for international students (including EU/EEA and Swiss nationals without settled status in the UK) requiring Student Route visa sponsorship to study here.
Candidates will need access to a computer in order to carry out their coursework, and broadband access to allow interaction with the learning materials on the VLE.
Existing UHI LIS advice on minimum computer specifications and broadband speeds should be followed and, wherever possible, be exceeded.
It is expected that applicants are already qualified primary or secondary school teachers, who are employed full-time or part-time within an educational setting.
On completion of this course, you will be able to deliver the basic Cyber security curriculum and supporting practical activities.
Depending on your job role and interest, you may wish to progress from CPD Award Introduction to Cyber Security to the following courses:
The course really caters to all levels of educators, it's obvious that a lot of consideration has been given to the needs of delivering Cyber Security in schools.
There's a good balance of online tasks, independent learning and discussion with others, and the lecturers are very responsive and helpful.
I feel I now have the confidence to build and deliver a Cyber Security course in my school and would like to support other schools in doing the same.
Darren, a Computing Studies teacher, studied the CPD Award Introduction to Cyber Security at UHI Inverness.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/mlitt-island-studies:
Course code Q324
This masters programme is the only dedicated postgraduate degree in Island Studies in Scotland.
It focuses on the study of islands and their communities, both in Scotland and internationally.
Delivered by the Institute for Northern Studies , the MLitt Island Studies gives you the opportunity to explore the islands of the world.
Island communities are often culturally unique, yet by their nature they share many commonalities, sometimes referred to as 'islandness'.
As part of the degree you will undertake comparative and multi-disciplinary study of the Scottish islands, however, island communities as diverse as the Baltic, the Faroe islands, the Isle of Man, the Falklands and Canadian islands, will also be integral to your studies, particularly the critical appraisal of insular governance, tourism and autonomy.
You will also choose an additional module from a range of Institute for Northern Studies and Sabhal Mòr Ostaig modules, the latter through the medium of Gaelic language.
You will also choose an additional option from a range of Institute for Northern Studies and Sabhal Mòr Ostaig UHI (via the medium of Gaelic language) modules.
These may include:
To achieve the award of MLitt Island Studies you must complete a research dissertation.
Once you have successfully completed your masters course in Island Studies, there are a variety of careers you might like to consider.
Here is just a taster of the kind of opportunities available to you:
I was attracted to studying in Orkney because it gave me the chance to physically visit the sites and access specialised material.
I received great support and encouragement from all teaching staff and the lecturers always had time to invest in their students and their needs.
Studying on the course has helped me to develop fundamental interpersonal, problem solving and team building skills.
Fleur Ward, originally from Melbourne, Australia, relocated to Orkney to undertake the MLitt Orkney and Shetland Studies.
She is now a PhD researcher in the discipline of Island Studies based at the Institute for Northern Studies, UHI Orkney.
The Institute for Northern Studies is based in Orkney and Shetland, the northern most part of the UK.
Our students come from a variety of places and backgrounds, even from as far away as Canada and Australia.
Our exciting, innovative programmes are embedded in the history and culture of our area.
These include Viking Studies, Highlands and Islands Culture, Highlands and Islands Literature, Orkney and Shetland Studies and Island Studies.
Dr Andrew Jennings, programme leader for the institute’s masters programmes, is the author of a number of publications on Scottish history, Norse place-names and island studies, and is currently involved in a number of projects, including an international project with the Estonian War Museum.
Studying at the Institute for Northern Studies gave me an opportunity to expand my horizons while still working.
I could join from anywhere in the world while still taking part in an academically rigorous programme.
Despite the virtual course, the Institute retains a community feel and students have the opportunity to get to know each other.
Studying on the course has been a gateway into the Scottish Islands and has improved my own understanding of the joys and challenges of living in the region.
James Ellsmoor from Shropshire, England, studied the MLitt in Island Studies online.
James was awarded UHI Postgraduate Student of the Year, 2018.
He now runs his owns consulting company called Island Innovation, specialising in renewable energy projects for remote regions.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnc-jewellery:
Course code 127W
Immerse yourself in the supportive environment of a creative community as you carefully hone your design and jewellery-making skills.
With the beautiful Outer Hebrides as your backdrop, learn techniques such as construction, casting, and stone setting, and elevate your skills to industry standard.
Set your imagination loose on practical projects, and produce considered, informed pieces that showcase your quality craftsmanship.
We do not supply bullion - you will need to obtain this at extra cost in order to use it in your projects.
The HNC will provide you with skills and training for a career within the industry or put you on the path to self-employment as a manufacturing jeweller/designer.
On successful completion of the HNC, you may wish to consider progressing to the HND or the first or second year of a degree programme at a number of colleges and universities throughout Scotland and the rest of the UK.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/cpd-award-language-development:
Course code Q536
The Continuing Professional Development (CPD) award in Language Development has been designed to meet the specific development and training needs of Gaelic organisations and public authorities.
You will study language policy and planning at all levels, from the family and community, to schools, businesses, non-profit organisations, local and national governmental bodies, and international organisations.
This award provides you with access to teaching, learning and research of the highest standards in language development, with a focus on Scottish Gaelic, to enable you to enhance your employability and professional skills.
Each module is usually completed over one semester, with two telephone tutorials per week.
The CPD Award Language Development will enhance your employment opportunities in various sectors such as development agencies and within Public agencies.
You may be able to progress to other awards or degree programmes within the Gaelic and Related studies scheme, or other UHI awards.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/msc-leadership-and-management:
Course code N291
The MSc Leadership and Management has been designed for those, who are seeking to enhance the knowledge and skills required for effective leadership and management in the complex, dynamic environments faced by organisations across all sectors today.
This course is aimed at those already in a management or leadership role or graduates looking to enhance their career prospects in this area.
Our flexible and high quality Masters programme is delivered through a structured online learning programme that is highly flexible and delivered by experienced practitioners.
This flexible and high quality masters programme is designed to help you develop and enhance your leadership skills and knowledge through a structured online learning programme that is highly flexible and delivered by experienced practitioners.
On completion of the MSc, if you have three years’ experience in a management role, you will be able to apply for the full Assessment for Chartered Manager route of the Chartered Management Institute (CMI), which will significantly enhance your career prospects.
Option modules, from which you will choose one, include:
Option modules, from which you will choose one, include:
To achieve the award of MSc Leadership and Management you will complete:
Once you have successfully completed the MSc Leadership and Management, you will have all the skills, knowledge and experience you need to seek senior management/leadership positions in the public, private and voluntary sectors.
With improved confidence, you will be better equipped to make decisions at senior level, feel comfortable taking part in high-level meetings and have increased motivation to further your career.
I am a professor of public health in Nottingham – an academic in my own right with multiple degrees and qualifications.
But as I grew more senior in my career, I wanted to undertake some formal study, and hopefully gain a qualification, in leadership and management.
After I enrolled in 2016, life soon became very difficult in 2017 when I was seconded to the Department for Health and Social Care as Deputy Chief Medical Officer for England.
There wasn’t much time for study; staying on the course was getting more and more difficult by the day.
I suspended my studies, then the pandemic hit us.
In early 2022 I thought I would have to finally admit defeat and withdraw from the course but the brilliant staff on the Inverness campus talked me round, and I kept going, and managed to finish.
The staff in Inverness went way beyond the call of duty to encourage me to stay on and finish.
The learning style online was relaxed and supportive.
Without both of these things, I simply wouldn’t have made it through.
To me, that makes UHI a rather special kind of university.
This desire to study again, and study specifically at UHI Inverness, came late in my career so I’m winding down really.
The ‘day job’ has involved a great deal of leadership and management, but knowing that I’ve actually studied this subject, and that I have some theoretical underpinnings, is very important.
Professor Sir Jonathan Van-Tam studied the PgCert Leadership and Management at UHI Inverness.
The course worked well with my lifestyle, and I enjoyed the flexibility of being able to work whilst studying.
It’s hard studying remotely, but worth it.
The tutors and lecturers were lovely and could not be more helpful.
The modules I undertook were contemporary leadership, collaboration, employee relations, research for business and finally the research project.
All of these modules are relevant in running a busy NHS service.
The course has helped me to evolve as a manager.
My career is moving in a more leadership direction, and the course has helped me with that.
I would like to expand the Maxillofacial Prosthetics Service and increase my leadership input with my profession as a whole.
My advice to those considering my course would be, don’t underestimate how much hard work it requires.
The more effort you put in, the more you will get out of it.
Karen studied the MSc Leadership and Management at UHI Inverness.
I enjoy the variety of the modules, there are some very good lecturers and evening delivery fits in with my full-time job.
All lecturers have their own style.
I like those who offer breakout groups and guest speakers.
Monica studied the MSc Leadership and Management at UHI Inverness.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/cpd-award-leadership-in-healthcare-scqf-level-11:
Course code B7LH
Look beyond today's health and social care and consider complex organisations, political, economic, and policy-related factors that impact on care delivery, and the experiences of people receiving care and those involved in delivering the service.
This Leadership in Healthcare (SCQF level 11) CPD module is aimed at practitioners within health and social care who wish to develop their leadership capability to enhance practice.
Explore and develop your personal capabilities and expand your skillset in your role, with particular focus on emotional intelligence, cognitive ability, preparedness to learn, and political awareness.
The learning outcomes for this CPD are:
Once you have successfully completed this course you will have the knowledge and skill to enhance your leadership capacities in health and social care.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/pgcert-leading-a-sustainable-equine-industry:
Course code D422
Are you ready to lead the way in creating a more sustainable equine industry?
Do you have the vision to drive positive change, whether you're in a formal leadership role or not?
Our PgCert Leading a Sustainable Equine Industry is designed for current and aspiring leaders who are ready to make a real difference in the future of the equine world.
Whether you're already managing a team or simply passionate about driving positive change, this programme empowers you to step into leadership, formally or informally, with confidence and purpose.
You’ll explore how to navigate the growing pressures of the equine industry, from evolving regulations and heightened societal expectations, to the critical importance of welfare and sustainability.
With a strong focus on innovation and adaptability, the programme equips you with the tools to develop creative, forward-thinking solutions for yourself and your organisation.
Importantly, you'll have space to reflect on the specific sustainability needs of your own business or practice, and learn how to lead meaningful change that benefits both your organisation and the wider industry.
You won’t just learn about leadership, you’ll live it, shaping a more resilient and responsible future for the equine sector.
For the PgCert (60 credits) you will study two core modules plus one option (each 20 credit modules) from the following:
Modules available in the semester starting September:
Modules available in the semester starting January:
Once you have successfully completed this course you might like to consider careers in more senior leadership and management positions within the public, private or voluntary sectors of the equine industry.
The course is designed for professionals wishing to develop their career opportunities but would also provide a strong base for progression to a PgDip or Masters programme.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/cpd-award-leading-and-managing-care-services-scqf-level-9:
Course code N2L5
If you are a manager in a care setting this Continuing Professional Development (CPD) award can help you in your career development.
It is designed to meet the registration requirements set by the Scottish Social Services Council (SSSC) for managers.
This CPD Award Leading and Managing Care Services (SCQF level 9) is particularly suited to staff who already hold an approved care qualification.
The award can be completed within 12 months and a student adviser will provide ongoing support throughout your studies.
The programme includes a mandatory induction and tutorials which are highly recommended.
Candidates need to have had good experience in the care sector.
Ideally, candidates should be working in a supervisory or management position.
You must:
The programme provides a management qualification accepted by the SSSC as meeting the requirements for registration as a manager of a care setting.
This qualification is essential for anyone working as a manager of a care service, so possession of the award is highly attractive to employers.
The possibility of progression to achieve a degree may prove attractive to students who already hold care qualifications at diploma level.
Following successful completion of this course you may wish to consider applying to one of the UHI degree programmes

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/duais-ldl-leasachadh-canain:
Course code Q534
Chaidh an duais Leasachadh Dreuchdail Leantainneach (LDL) ann an Leasachadh Cànain a dhealbh gus coinneachadh ris na feumalachdan leasachaidh agus trèanaidh sònraichte aig buidhnean Gàidhlig agus ùghdarrasan ionadail.
Ionnsachaidh tu mu phoileasaidh agus planadh cànain aig a h-uile ìre bhon teaghlach don choimhearsnachd, gu sgoiltean, gnothachasan, buidhnean neo-phrothaideach, buidhean riaghaltais nàiseanta agus ionadail agus buidhnean eadar-nàiseanta.
Bheir an cùrsa seo cothrom dhut buannachd fhaighinn bhon teagasg, ionnsachadh agus rannsachadh den ìre as àirde ann an leasachadh cànain agus coimhearsnachd, le sùil gheur air Gàidhlig na h-Alba; a leigeas leat sgilean dreuchdail agus proifeiseanta a leasachadh.
Cuiridh an duais LDL seo ris na cothroman dreuchdail a bhios agad ann an caochladh roinnean leithid bhuidhnean leasachaidh agus buidhnean poblach.
Faodaidh gum bi e comasach dhut adhartas a dhèanamh ri duaisean no ceumannan a bharrachd taobh a-staigh Sgeama na Gàidhlig agus cuspairean co-cheangailte no duaisean eile aig an oilthigh.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/duais-ldl-leasachadh-coimhearsnachd-scqf-level-9:
Course code Q535
Chaidh an cùrsa Leasachadh Dreuchdail Leantainneach (LDL) ann an Leasachadh Coimhearsnachd a dhealbh gus coinneachadh ris na feumalachdan trèanaidh agus leasachaidh aig buidhnean Gàidhlig agus ùghdarrasan poblach a tha ag obair ann an coimhearsnachdan gus a’ Ghàidhlig a dhìon agus ath-bheòthachadh.
Bheir thu sùil air leasachadh coimhearsnachd airson a h-uile suidheachadh, dùthchail is bailteil, air a bheil leasachadh na Gàidhlig a’ toirt buaidh.
Leasachaidh tu sgìlean gus leasachadh cànain agus leasachadh coimhearsnachd a dhealbhachadh, a’ toirt còmhla eòlas teòiridheach le ceumannan practaigeach ann an ath-bheothachadh choimhearsnachdan agus cànain.
Dh'fhaodar gum bi sgoilearachdan no taic airgid a bhith ri fhaotainn .
Cuiridh an duais LDL seo ris na cothroman dreuchdail a bhios agad ann an caochladh roinnean leithid ann an buidhnean leasachaidh coimhearsnachd agus buidhnean poblach.
Faodaidh gum bi e comasach dhut adhartas a dhèanamh ri duaisean no ceumannan a bharrachd taobh a-staigh sgeama na Gàidhlig agus cuspairean co-cheangailte no duaisean eile aig an oilthigh.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-literature:
Course code Q320
If you are passionate about reading, thinking and writing and would like to turn this interest into a career, the BA (Hons) Literature is ideal for you.
You will explore literature in a global context, looking in depth at language and literary history within texts and on the international literary stage.
Our modules cover a wide range of authors, in English and translation, from the classical to the contemporary.
With a solid foundation in genres and periods in years one and two, and research-based modules in years three and four, you will become a confident and enthusiastic writer, researcher and reader.
We teach a range of advanced specialist modules alongside more traditional content, and you are able to combine your studies with other disciplines.
Holders of other awards, qualifications, competences and knowledge that are deemed similar in level and content to those above; entry by this route will be at the discretion of the programme committee.
You will also choose two further option modules which may include:
You will also choose two further option modules from across our humanities subjects.
You will study five core modules which may include:
You will also choose an option module from our range of humanities subjects.
You will complete a literature dissertation in Semesters 1 and 2.
You will also study four core modules which may include:
Once you have successfully completed your BA (Hons) Literature course, you might like to consider careers in:
The highly developed critical, analytical and communication skills you will acquire through your studies will make you a strong candidate for a wide variety of careers.
Alternatively, you may wish to progress from BA (Hons) Literature to one of the following courses:
UHI is the only university to offer a joint honours degree in both theology and literature.
My tutors have been supportive and helpful, they really encourage independent, informed thinking.
I think my studies will equip me with the knowledge and experience I need to develop as a writer, as well as provide helpful contacts.
I’ve also been impressed by the support provided for lectures online; I’ve done online courses before, but the support at UHI is by far the best.
Jennifer is studying BA (Hons) Literature and Theology at HTC, a UHI partner.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-literature-and-creative-writing:
Course code Q32W
Are you passionate about reading?
Do you long to study literary works while developing your own styles of writing?
Combine all three as you explore literature in a global context, covering a wide range of authors, in English and translation, from the classical to the contemporary, and looking in-depth at language and literary history within texts and on the international literary stage.
Gain a solid grounding in four of the main areas of creative writing: poetry, prose, playwriting, and the screenplay; examine how these can inform and support other areas of professional writing; and, through the programme's carefully structured blend of research, residentials, and creative projects, become a confident, enthusiastic and highly employable writer, researcher, and reader.
You will also choose two option modules which may include: Literature
Creative Writing
Creative writing
You will choose either:
You will also study one option module from your choice above, plus three option modules from the other subject.
On completion of this course, you may be interested in pursuing a career in:
You can progress from BA (Hons) Literature and Creative Writing to the following UHI postgraduate courses:
Jennifer is studying Literature at UHI.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-literature-and-criminology:
Course code Q32C
.Please see our FAQ sheet for further information on this course.
You will choose two further option modules from a range of literature, criminology, and other humanities subjects.
You will study two modules, which may include:
You will also study two core modules:
You will choose three modules, which may include:
You will also choose three core modules, which may include:
You will complete a dissertation in literature or criminology.
Once you have successfully completed your BA (Hons) Literature and Criminology, you might like to consider careers in:
Jennifer Mewes is studying Literature at UHI.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-literature-and-politics:
Course code Q32P
Literature: using a wide range of authors and texts, from classic to contemporary, explores literature in a global context, looking in depth at language and literary history.
Politics: how political structures and ideologies shapes our lives and are organised differently around the world.
You will choose two further option modules from a range of literature, politics, and other humanities subjects.
You will also choose three modules, which may include:
You will complete a dissertation in literature or politics.
Once you have successfully completed your BA (Hons) Literature and Politics, you might like to consider careers in:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-literature-and-sociology:
Course code Q32S
You will choose two further option modules from a range of literature, sociology, and other humanities subjects.
You will complete a dissertation in literature or sociology.
Once you have successfully completed your BA (Hons) Literature and Sociology, you might like to consider careers in:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-literature-and-theology:
Course code Q32T
You will choose two further option modules from a range of literature, theology, and other humanities subjects.
You will also study two modules, which may include:
You will complete a dissertation in literature or theology.
Once you have successfully completed your BA (Hons) Literature and Theology, you might like to consider careers in:
Jennifer Mewes is studying BA (Hons) Literature and Theology at HTC, a UHI partner.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/pda-management-accounting-scqf-level-7:
Course code 95N4
If you're seeking to enter the world of management accounting or advance your current accounting position, this professional development award in Management Accounting will give you the skills and confidence you need.
You will study cost accounting and management accounting using standard accounting software packages.
Two mandatory units with 32 SCQF credit points:
Other start dates may be available in some locations.
For information on options and how to apply for other start dates please contact the campus you wish to study with.
On successful completion of the PDA Management Accounting, you may wish to consider other related PDAs or progression to the HNC Accounting .

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/pgcert-management-in-golf:
Course code N801
This fully online course is designed to help current and future leaders and managers in the golf industry to prepare them for the challenges and opportunities facing their organisations in the contemporary environment.
The niche pressures, challenges, and range of external legislation and competition require the managers of organisations in the industry to take responsibility to drive innovation and identify new solutions and new ways of working to be adaptable.
The course provides individuals with the opportunity to think about their own leadership approaches and preferences and about the needs of their organisations.
It encourages them to develop and make changes that can have a positive impact on themselves and their business.
An online induction programme will help support individuals returning to learning, or perhaps coming back to education after a long period.
Once you have successfully completed this course you might like to consider careers in more senior leadership and management positions within the public, private or voluntary sectors of the golf industry.
This course is designed for professionals wishing to develop their career opportunities but would also provide a strong base for progression to a PgDip or Masters programme.
On successful completion of the course, it may be possible to progress to our MSc Leadership and Management.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-marine-and-coastal-tourism:
Course code F7N8
How do we use our seas and coastlines to generate sustainable income?
What impact does tourism have and what are the challenges of developing it sustainably within the wider context of the marine sector?
Learn all of this and more in this amazing interactive course, with activities including snorkelling, scuba diving, sailing (dinghy and yacht), power boating, paddle sports (sea kayak and stand up paddle boarding), surfing, and coasteering.
Develop excellent personal and leadership skills, with a focus on activity development, response to climate change, environmental and conservation objectives, the role of coastal communities in the development of tourism, management of customer expectations, and behaviours and analysis of marine sector legislation, from both a UK and international perspective.
For September 2025, entry to this course is only available in year 4.
*Applicants with experience or qualifications in areas such as marine environment, responsible tourism, and the rural and coastal economy of Scotland, will be considered on an individual basis, providing they can demonstrate the ability to work at the relevant academic level
For International students requiring Student Route sponsorship
You must also complete one of the following: dissertation; research and plan a new business; or a professional project
We have an extensive equipment stores for use by students on session, but do not provide personal clothing, excepting wetsuits
For some field trips, we may expect you to cover your own food while away.
Transport, instruction and entry fees are usually covered
The optional International Expeditions module is a major undertaking, and will usually involve either fundraising, or personal contribution, over and above funding provided by UHI.
Cost will depend largely on your destination and ambitions.
How to finance an expedition is part of the taught content, and you will be supported through the process
Essential personal protective equipment (PPE) and specialist equipment can be accessed from our comprehensive stores but you will need to purchase your own personal clothing and footwear for most activities, with the exception of wetsuits.
If you choose to join an international expedition you should budget up to £1000 to ensure you have sufficient funds.
Please check our website for further details and costs relating to the course.
Once you have successfully completed this course, you might like to consider the following career paths:
You can progress from the BA (Hons) Marine and Coastal Tourism to the following university postgraduate course:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/bsc-hons-marine-science:
Course code F710
Are you passionate about our seas and oceans?
Can you imagine studying at a beachfront campus, with an enormous wealth of marine and coastal environments right outside your door?
Dive into an incredible living research environment, with internationally-renowned, state-of-the-art marine laboratory facilities, at the Scottish Association for Marine Science (SAMS) on Scotland‘s west coast.
Enjoy first-hand interactions with marine science experts, collect samples and data on research vessels, in aquaria and on the seashore, and develop excellent laboratory skills.
Choose to study abroad in your third year at the University Centre in Svalbard (UNIS) in the Arctic Circle or Coastal Carolina, USA.
Explore the marine realm first hand and apply the latest technologies throughout your studies, with subjects such as oceanography, biogeochemical cycling, conservation, robotics, data analysis and instrumentation, polar seas, the marine carbon cycle, and much more.
A brilliant springboard to success in your future marine science career, exit with a BSc (Hons) Marine Science or choose to pursue pathways in Arctic Studies, Marine Biology, or Oceanography and Robotics.
You will also pick one of the following optional modules:
Students based at Scottish Association for Marine Science (SAMS) UHI in this year will choose from the below modules.
Marine Science/Arctic Studies pathways You will study the following core module:
You will also choose any five from the following modules:
Marine Biology pathway You will study the following core modules:
You will also choose any two from the following modules:
Oceanography and Robotics pathway
If you are accepted for an exchange semester or year at the University Centre in Svalbard (UNIS), you can choose from the following topics:
Marine Science pathway You will study the following core module:
You will also choose any four from the following modules:
Arctic Studies pathway You will study the following core modules:
You will also choose any three from the following modules:
Oceanography and Robotics pathway You will study the following core modules:
Participation in either the Red Sea ‘Tropical Ecosystems’ field course or the Hebridean Whale and Dolphin Trust ‘Marine Mammal Observer’ RV Silurian field course will be an additional £1500 - £2000 per trip.
Once you have successfully completed your BSc (Hons) Marine Science course, you might like to consider careers in:
You may wish to progress to further studies such as:
I love this course because our lecturers are renowned scientists in their field, and it's so inspiring to be taught by them.
It's hands on with a small number of students per class, so you have a very personal connection to your lecturer.
If you’re passionate about the ocean this is by far the best place study.
I think SAMS is brilliant and I would recommend it to anyone especially if you love learning by doing.
Janne is studying on our BSc (Hons) Marine Science with Oceanography and Robotics at SAMS, a UHI partner.
This course offered in-depth training in marine science unlike any other university.
I have had a huge freedom to specialise in any area in marine science I wished.
This course was diverse and being hosted at a small research institute meant I had the incredible chance to take a variety of opportunities to develop my career.
The support I received during my degree was incredible.
Lecturers have always gone above and beyond to help me develop my ideas and create opportunities to grow.
I had the opportunity to do an exchange semester in Svalbard during the third year of my degree.
I undertook three summer placements in the SAMS labs and once in collaboration with the Norwegian institute Akvaplan-niva during summers to gain more experience in molecular and experimental biology.
I also went on a research cruise to the Icelandic Basin with SAMS and NOC for 3 weeks and worked as an onboard chemistry assistant.
I was involved in the diving club and also set up UHI’s first ever student knitting club!
UHI all feels like one big community.
Nele studied the BSc (Hons) Marine Science with Arctic Studies at the Scottish Association for Marine Science, a partner of UHI.
I choose this course mainly for the location, I had a couple other options, but after seeing SAMS, especially how small the university is compared to how large the research centre is, I came here just knowing I would have lots of opportunities to get into the lab, and do lots of research, which is what I want to do.
I've had work experience pretty much from the first practical we had, I asked my lecturer if he needed help, and helping with research just snowballed from there.
In fact, in my third year, I was really helped by supervisor to develop an assignment I had written into a paper that we eventually published.
I had considered St Andrews and Edinburgh as other options, but it was a no brainer to come to SAMS because of the research opportunities that I knew I would have.
SAMS has a small campus, and a select number of students per year, which makes it so much easier to have a dialogue and a repour with your lectures and the researchers.
Alberto studied the BSc (Hons) Marine Science at SAMS, a partner of UHI.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/msc-material-culture-and-gaidhealtachd-history:
This ground-breaking, internationally acclaimed masters programme offers you a unique opportunity to investigate Gaelic culture – entirely through the language of the Gaels themselves.
The course gives you the chance to study in-depth the extraordinary transformations affecting the Gaelic world during recent centuries up to the present day, drawing upon the wealth of material culture, literature, tradition, and language of the people of the Highlands.
You may already be knowledgeable on the tradition, material culture and history of different Highland districts.
By placing them in a wider regional context through your studies, with a specific focus on material culture – the many objects made and used in the Highlands – you will attain a deeper understanding of the world of the Gaels, both past and present.
The course is taught in Gaelic, from a Gaelic perspective, by internationally recognised scholars, therefore communicative ability in the language is essential.
Postgraduate Loans (SAAS) (Scottish-domiciled and EU students)
Direct entry from our own Gaelic-medium degrees.
To achieve the award of MSc you must complete a research dissertation.
The number of hours per week indicates the total number of hours you should dedicate to the course, which will include time spent in lectures and your own time spent on individual study and research.
Positions within the heritage sector; museums; community groups; the media; creative industries; the public sector; developmental and environmental agencies; and PhD research

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/beng-hons-mechanical-engineering:
Course code H301
Mechanical Engineering is a highly relevant field involving products that affect our lives in countless ways, from the systems that maintain a flow of water to the faucet in your kitchen sink, to the spacecrafts that launch astronauts and satellites to far-flung parts of the solar system.
This program of study is designed to help you develop the skills and knowledge required to build a career as an engineer in a wide range of fields, including automotive, energy and aerospace, among others.
The degree is application-based, using industry-related software, and includes laboratory-based investigations as well as examining industry-based case studies that will provide you with the specialist mechanical knowledge and broad engineering education to turn your qualification into a lifelong career.
You will also undertake an engineering project, which will showcase your skills and knowledge to prospective employers by solving an industry-related problem.
Year 1 of this course is a relevant HNC, such as HNC Engineering (Systems pathway) or HNC Mechanical Engineering, with a pass in Engineering Mathematics 2
*only available to those who have already achieved level 3 in the same subject
Once you have successfully completed your BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering, you will be ready to compete effectively for jobs within the broad engineering industries such as transport engineering; offshore engineering; renewable energy; energy; manufacturing; and oil and gas.
Roles may include:
Upon successful completion of the BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering, you may wish to progress onto:
My studies have given me a better understanding of mechanical engineering and project management.
I completed a project in the workplace for my Engineering Project module and I found I was able to apply many parts of the course directly to my work.
I feel gaining my degree has helped me to become a Maintenance Engineer 2 at LifeScan, the youngest and first woman to do this role in my department.
I work in the packaging department, maintaining the machinery for our product, support a team of engineers, as well as helping to train our apprentices.
I really enjoyed the course and how I was able to complete it remotely, allowing me to study while working.
I love the outdoors and living in the Highlands is the best place for that!
Niamh studied on the BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering at North, West and Hebrides, Thurso.
She won the Prize for Engineering Excellence in 2023.
I chose to study at UHI because It meant I was able to leave my studies with a first-class honours degree, savings in the bank, and I immediately had an engineering job to go to.
This course was right for me because existing links with local employers gave me the opportunity for employment, the course content was good and lecturers were caring, approachable and knew their stuff!
I worked as an intern at a nuclear power plant during my second year and continued to work and study full time until my graduation.
I now work there as a Mechanical Engineer.
I would recommend studying at UHI, even if you don’t have a full picture of where your career may take you.
At the end of your time, you will have the magic bit of paper that demonstrates your worth to employers, be that local or further afield.
UHI has such a wide catchment area that I was able to meet new people with alike interests and career journeys.
Jonathan studied BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering at our Thurso campus.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/msc-mechanical-engineering:
Course code H105
Specialist modules will allow you to pursue areas of particular interest to you and may include: study of advanced mechanical engineering topics such as fluid flow, aerodynamics, tensor stress, and parametric analysis; study of advanced mechanical engineering systems such as intermittent combustion or continuous combustion engines, and hypersonic propulsion; study of finite element modelling theory and application of mechanical engineering software analysis packages such as MATLAB or ANSYS; study of advanced applications of mathematical solutions for engineering problems such as transfer function approaches, state space methodology and stability analyses; application of optimisation approaches to the design of mechanical engineering systems; and a mechanical engineering design project.
This may be coordinated and conducted in conjunction with your employer and must be in an area of specialisation within the field of mechanical engineering.
On successful completion, you will have acquired the general and specialist engineering knowledge, understanding and skills that are relevant to employment within the engineering industry, specifically the mechanical engineering field.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/pda-mental-health-peer-support-scqf-level-7:
Course code 9L53
Peer support workers in the mental health sector, often now acknowledged as ‘experts by experience’, offer a unique insight and understanding that can only be gained through having been there yourself.
This course has been specifically developed to equip you with the learning and values necessary to utilise your own experiences to support others recovering from mental illness.
Developed by the Scottish Recovery Network, the PDA will help you to build up your skills in:
There are no specific entry requirements, but you should have personal experience of mental health problems and be able to provide evidence of good written and oral communication skills (SCQF level 5 or above).
The PDA consists of two mandatory units:
Successful completion of the PDA may lead to opportunities for employment as a Peer Supporter.
It may also offer access to a range of other related mental health and social services qualifications.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/cpd-award-minor-injuries-management-scqf-level-11:
Course code B7MIM
This CPD module in Minor Injuries Management (SCQF Level 11) enables you to develop advanced practice capability and supports autonomous working.
On successful completion you will be equipped to contribute to and autonomously lead the management of minor injuries in a general practice or appropriate alternative setting.
This module supports safe and competent practice in the context of General Practice or an appropriate alternative setting.
Successful completion requires that you demonstrate an in-depth and critical understanding of clinical examination, assessment and management of common minor injuries.
You will be required to evidence 30 hours of supervised practice learning during the module.
Practice assessors support, assess and verify supervised hours of practice.
Assessment comprises of an unseen examination, a single case study and a log of supervised practice learning.
Minor injuries management (SCQF level 11) (20 credits) The module combines in-depth pathophysiology of minor injuries with critical review of person-centred management.
Five learning units are included:
The number of hours indicates the total number of hours you should dedicate to the course, which includes time spent in lectures and your own time spent on individual study and research.
This course is not available for international students requiring Student Route visa sponsorship to study in the UK and cannot be studied outside of the UK.
You may wish to progress from CPD Award Minor Injuries Management (SCQF level 11) to the following course:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/cpd-award-minor-injuries-management-scqf-level-9:
Course code B703
This CPD module in Minor Injuries Management (SCQF Level 9) enables you to build upon existing clinical knowledge and skills, thereby enhancing practice.
Once you have successfully completed the module, you will be equipped to contribute to the management of minor injuries in a general practice or appropriate alternative setting.
The module supports safe and competent practice within the context of General Practice or an appropriate alternative setting.
Successful completion requires that you demonstrate understanding of clinical examination, assessment and management of common minor injuries.
Assessment comprises of a single case study and a log of supervised practice learning.
Minor injuries management (SCQF level 9) (20 credits) The module combines in-depth pathophysiology of minor injuries with person-centred management.
You may wish to progress from CPD Award Minor Injuries Management (SCQF level 9) to the following course:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-moral-and-philosophical-studies-with-religious-education:
Course code X104
Are you fascinated by theological, moral, and philosophical issues and debates?
Do you have ambitions to lead learning in this field, with a career as a Religious Education (RE) or Religious, Moral and Philosophical Studies (RMPS) teacher in a secondary school setting?
Join this contemporary new degree, supported by the Scottish Government, and combine academic study in theology, ethics, and philosophy with vocational training as a teacher.
Access an extensive specialist library, including several significant theological collections such as the Rutherford House library.
Become an inspiring and motivational teacher, guiding your students to explore different values, attitudes, and ethical issues as they learn to approach moral decision-making.
Please see our FAQs for further information on this course.
This is a Category 1 PVG course: PVG Scheme membership is required to successfully achieve target qualification, where there is guaranteed contact with vulnerable groups in key elements of the course.
For further information visit our PVG scheme webpage
You will also complete a dissertation based on practitioner enquiry for the 'Teacher enquiry in RMPS' module.
You will be required to pay the cost of the PVG Disclosure Check (approx £60).
Once you have successfully completed this course, you will hold provisional registration as a secondary teacher of Religious Education with the General Teaching Council for Scotland (GTC Scotland).
This qualifies students from Scotland, the rest of the UK and EU Member States to apply for GTC Scotland’s induction year, the Teacher Induction Scheme (TIS), which can then allow teachers to qualify for the status of full registration.
Students from non-EU countries are not eligible to join the TIS, but you can follow the Flexible Route to complete your probationary service if you are able to remain in Scotland on completion of your studies.
See the Teacher Induction Scheme website for more information.
Full registration as a secondary teacher of Religious Education means you will be qualified to teach the following subjects in a secondary school:
You may wish to consider further postgraduate study in education, theology or philosophy.
I decided to go with UHI as they offered exactly what I was looking for, the degree with teaching qualification included.
I enjoy the interactions in classes and the friendships I have formed through shared experiences.
The lecturers are really good at communication and are very quick to reply to emails.
They will always try to help you when they can and are great at providing resources to work with.
All lecturers are clearly very educated in their fields.
I didn't expect to learn so much so quickly, the lectures are full of information and the recommended reading is very beneficial.
I am currently in my second placement in a secondary school.
The placements allow me to develop my practice and confidence within different settings.
Eva studied the BA (Hons) Moral and Philosophical Studies with Religious Education at UHI Inverness.
I didn't consider any other universities, as UHI was the only university I could find that offered this course.
I knew this was the right course for me as I have such a passion for teaching and a desire to learn about other cultures and religions and how these impact people's moral beliefs and views.
At UHI all the lecturers are supportive and they make their modules interesting, which encourages and inspires you, as a student, to learn.
My PAT (personal academic tutor) has been amazing, supporting me through some challenging times I encountered during my studies and the support from all UHI staff is incredible.
So far I have done two secondary school placements and I've had a wonderful experience with both.
My degree has set me up perfectly to become a secondary teacher in RMPS (Religious, Moral and Philosophical Studies).
Nicole is studying on our BA (Hons) Moral and Philosophical Studies with Religious Education at HTC, a UHI partner.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnc-music:
Course code 103W
Nurture your musical passions and pursue a dynamic career in popular or traditional music performance.
Develop your understanding of the music industry and enhance your instrumental skills, with modules in first study instrument or composition, live performance, theory, graded units, and music business.
Take the HNC as the first year of our BA (Hons) Popular Music, or use the HNC or HND to access the second or third years of the BA (Hons) Popular Music or BA (Hons) Applied Music.
This course will provide training to help you prepare for a future career in the music industries, in roles such as: live performer, session musician, producer, songwriter, composer, lecturer, teacher, or peripatetic instructor.
You can progress to our HND Music or to year two of our BA (Hons) Popular Music or BA (Hons) Applied Music .
Kirsty studied Music at UHI Perth.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnd-music:
Course code 003W
Entry to HND Music Year 1 (HNC Music):
Direct entry to HND Music Year 2:
Year 1 of this course is the HNC Music .
Once you have completed this course, you might like to consider a career as a freelance performer, music instructor or a session musician.
You may wish to consider progression into year 3 of the following courses:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/mmus-music:
Course code W300
This course is suitable for those involved in creating (composition, songwriting and production) or studying music, and who wish to expand their current field of expertise.
The MMus Music will introduce you to the fundamental principles of text-based, or practice-led research in popular and contemporary music.
It provides unique and creative approaches to composition, songwriting, production and musicology, valuing musical creativity and innovation, musical diversity and intellectual curiosity.
The course will help strengthen your ability to utilise independent learning whilst developing original and creative responses to problems and current complex issues.
You will have the opportunity to develop in-depth knowledge of your chosen research area through pathway and optional modules.
You may also have the opportunity to attend conferences, gigs and networking events.
Music: Popular and Contemporary Music Practices pathway
You will also choose one option module from the list below.
Music: Popular and Contemporary Music Studies pathway
Option modules are:
Music: Popular and Contemporary Music Practices and Studies pathways
The core module is: research and practice-led methodologies: responses to research questions.
You will also choose two option modules from the following:
To complete the masters award you must complete a 15,000 word dissertation in a chosen field or equivalent practical major project, supervised by a tutor.
Projects are not limited to, but could include:
You will learn through a combination of face-to-face lectures and tutorials and online study via the university's virtual learning environment (VLE).
You may also be required to attend residential and studio sessions for practical work.
Successful completion of the MMus Music will prepare you for various careers within the creative industry including:
The course provides a strong base for progression to a PhD.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ma-music-and-the-environment:
Course code W302
Creative artists make a significant contribution to the sustainability of the creative economy, particularly in rural communities.
The MA Music and the Environment provides a foundation for musicians to develop new paths for creative, entrepreneurial and environmentally responsible endeavours.
In addition, the course equips musicians to work within their own community, establishing effective and successful contributions to their local economy.
.
You will also choose one option from a range of music and humanities modules to best match your personal interest and passion, for example:
To achieve the award of MA you must also complete a final project or dissertation (S3).
This course prepares students for various careers in the creative industries:
I chose UHI as the course looked innovative and flexible.
It pushed me into new and much more experimental ways of thinking about my existing practice, whilst also providing contextual modules that broadened my knowledge base and helped consolidate academic skills.
The mix of distance learning and residential weeks was ideal for fitting around my existing work commitments.
By the time I finished the course, my musical output had evolved in an entirely different direction from where I started, which was a very positive outcome.
I particularly enjoyed the collaborative practice involved throughout the course- although my peers were located all over the country, we managed to create some unique work.
The residential weeks were stimulating, enjoyable and allowed us to meet as a group- there is a sense of a real community.
The MA Music and the Environment was a fantastic experience, I’d do it all over again!
Morag studied the MA Music and the Environment at UHI North, West and Hebrides.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-music-business:
Course code W3N1
Gain valuable inspiration, experience, connections, and knowledge on this dynamic BA (Hons) Music Business course, as you get ready to forge your own path in this vibrant industry.
Benefit from real opportunities, experienced and dedicated staff, and strong industry links, with previous guest speakers from renowned companies including Universal Music, Sony Columbia Records, BBC Radio One, Live Nation, and Ticketmaster, as well as Stevie Wonder's manager, Keith Harris.
Develop vital skills in music conference management, digital marketing, and event or festival management; work alongside record labels and arts organisations; and enjoy regular placements and employment opportunities in the UK, Europe, and the US.
Build your strengths through your studies and let us help you make your next moves in this diverse field.
Year 1 is the HNC Music Business .
Key S1 = Semester 1 S2 = Semester 2 SC = Semester Continuous (these modules may be studied across either/both semesters)
Students will get an automatic scholarship for 2 nd and 3 rd year, with the 4 th year of study free for those studying full-time, on continuous study, who have paid for the previous three years at the University of the Highlands and Islands.
Part-time study is not open to international student requiring Student Route visa sponsorship to study in the UK.
The BA (Hons) Music Business provides the flexibility to focus on your individual interests and develop the necessary employability skills required for a successful career in the music industry.
Graduates of this course are now working in a variety of areas across Scotland, the UK and Europe, including:
I didn’t consider any other universities, I really liked that modules focused on the skills and knowledge necessary for future employment.
I am currently the Marketing, Social Media & Digital Distribution Manager at Soma Records, my studies helped get my job by growing my music network and boost my networking skills.
I received great support from all my lecturers at UHI, and the guest lectures were great.
A highlight was definitely starting up my own club night in Glasgow for my Honours Project.
I would not have had the resources or confidence to do that without the help of UHI.
If you are thinking about a career in the music industry, I would recommend studying at UHI.
It is an essential steppingstone towards full time employment.
Kirsty studied the BA (Hons) Music Business at UHI Perth.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnc-music-business:
Course code 31WN
This dynamic course will provide you with the experience and knowledge to gain a career in the music business.
On this HNC Music Business, accredited by the Scottish Music Industry Association (SMIA), you will benefit from real opportunities, experienced and dedicated staff and strong industry links.
Studying at one of the best equipped facilities in Scotland, you will be prepared for working in various sectors of the music industries.
Alongside your studies you will have the opportunity to gain experience working in event/festival management, music conference management, digital marketing, and with record labels and arts organisations.
Our students are regularly offered placements and employment opportunities throughout the course, with previous students completing work placements in the UK, Europe, and the US.
The teaching team, based at UHI Perth, are all active in their disciplines and, as a result, have strong links with current employers in the music industries within the UK and further afield.
These links enhance your educational experience and provide a valuable insight into the contemporary music industries.
You will benefit from a guest speaker programme that has previously included: Universal Music; Sony Columbia Records; BBC Radio One; Live Nation; Ticketmaster; Stevie Wonder’s manager, Keith Harris; Creative Scotland; and the SMIA.
This course provides the flexibility to focus on your individual interests and develop the necessary employability skills required for a successful career in the music industry.
Graduates of the course are working in a variety of areas of the profession across Scotland, the UK and Europe, including:
You can progress to year 2 of the BA (Hons) Music Business at UHI Perth.
Kirsty studied Music business at UHI Perth.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnc-musical-theatre:
Course code 113W
Combine your love of singing, dancing, and acting by pursuing a career in theatre and community performance.
Learn the tools of your trade through a range of performance opportunities and training, creating and leading your own projects, and collaborating with students on the HNC Technical Theatre to gain an understanding of the complete production process.
Enrich your experience with inspiring visits from guest lecturers, excellent industry visits, and masterclasses by industry professionals.
Option units which may include:
You will learn through a combination of face-to-face lectures and tutorials, practical work, and live performances on campus and in the community.
You may wish to consider careers in semi or professional theatre performance, cruise ship or holiday camp entertainment, TV or radio, community arts projects, performance therapy and teaching.
You may wish to consider progressing to the HND Musical Theatre, or to the university's BA (Hons) Drama and Production.
I chose UHI after hearing positive feedback from former students and conducting my own research.
I was eager for the opportunities that Perth UHI could offer.
I truly appreciate the teaching style of the lecturers at UHI; they are highly attentive and understanding towards each student.
The lecturers provide support not only for academic challenges but also for personal matters, celebrating every achievement, big or small.
I couldn't have asked for a better support system.
My studies have provided me with valuable knowledge not only in theatre design but also in important skills like leadership and management.
This experience has been instrumental in clarifying my future goals and will undoubtedly help advance my career.
I assist with in-house productions for the younger students in the theatre department at Perth UHI.
I feel fortunate to apply my design and management skills in these productions while also mentoring and enhancing the skills of younger students.
One of my favourite aspects of UHI is its inclusivity.
I have always felt welcomed and included here.
The support provided by the university is incredible, and they are proactive in assisting their students.
I genuinely believe that the journey from my first year to now, along with the connections I've made with lecturers and friends, has positively transformed my life.
If given the chance, I would relive the experience without changing a thing.
Morven is studying Theatre industry practice at UHI Perth.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnd-musical-theatre:
Course code 013W
For entry to year one (HNC Musical Theatre):
For direct entry to year two (HND):
Year 1 of this course is the HNC Musical Theatre .
Once you have successfully completed this course, you might like to consider careers with:
Career you may consider include:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/diphe-na-meadhanan-gaidhlig:
Ma tha dreuchd sna meadhanan Gàidhlig fa-near dhut, gheibh thu an t-eòlas is an t-ionnsachadh air a’ chùrsa DipHE Na Meadhanan Gàidhlig a tha a dhìth airson tòiseachadh san àite-obrach.
Tha an cùrsa ga lìbhrigeadh aig Sabhal Mòr Ostaig anns an Eilean Sgitheanach an com-pàirteachas le gnìomhachas craolaidh is nam meadhanan an Alba.
Tha còrr is 20 bliadhna de dh’eòlas air trèanadh craolaidh aig Sabhal Mòr Ostaig agus bidh cothroman sa ghnìomhachas ann tron luchd-obrach fhiosrach dhealasach aca agus tro cheanglaichean làidir leis a’ ghnìomhachas.
Cuiridh tu eòlas is sgilean a’ ghnìomhachais cuide ri sgilean nas fharsaing a bhios luchd-fastaidh a’ sireadh.
Gheibh thu cothrom na sgilean cànain agad a thoirt am feabhas air a’ chùrsa agus anns a’ choimhearsnachd Ghàidhlig.
Anns a’ chiad bhliadhna, gheibh thu cothrom seachdain obrach a chur seachad cuide ri BBC Aonad Craolaidh A-muigh aig a’ Mhòd Nàiseanta Rìoghail agus gheibh thu molaidhean cunbhalach bho phroifeiseantaich thar grunn mhodalan.
Bidh clasaichean le eòlaichean nàiseanta is eadar-nàiseanta ann aig a bheil sàr sgilean teicnigeach is conaltraidh.
Anns an dàrna bliadhna, cuiridh tu deich mìosan seachad air greis obrach aig grunn chompanaidhean mheadhanan is bhuidhnean craolaidh agus thèid do mheasadh air an obair a nì thu ann.
Tha MG Alba* agus pannal comhairleachaidh anns a bheil proifeiseantaich agus riochdairean aig Sabhal Mòr Ostaig a’ cumail taic ris na cothroman obrach seo.
*Tha MG ALBA air a riaghladh le Ofcom agus tha a bhòrd air shuidheachadh le Ofcom, le aonta Ministearan na h-Alba.
’S e MG ALBA ainm obrach Seirbheis nam Meadhanan Gàidhlig.
Nì thu na modalan riatanach a leanas:
Tha an àireamh uairean san t-seachdain a’ ciallachadh nan uairean a bu chòir dhut cosg air a’ chùrsa, a’ toirt a-steach ùine ann an òraidean is an ùine rannsachaidh agad fhèin
*40 uair san t-seachdain obrach àbhaisteach ann am Bliadhna 2, ach tha seo a rèir an àite far am bi thu ag obair
Anns an dàrna bliadhna den chùrsa seo -  bidh na h-oileanaich air a’ ghreis-ghnìomhachais 10 mìosan a’ faighinn tabhartasan mìosail bho MG Alba.
’S urrainn dhut cumail ort ann an dreuchd anns na meadhanan a leithid telebhisean no rèidio an dèidh dhut an cùrsa seo a choileanadh gu soirbheachail.
Thagh mi an cùrsa seo a chionn ’s gun robh e a’ toirt dhomh tòrr chothroman matha a bha fios agam nach fhaighinn ann an àite sam bith eile.
Gun teagamh, b’ e an rud a b’ fheàrr air fad dhomh gu ruige seo nuair a chaidh sinn air greis-ghnìomhachais aig a’ Mhòd Nàiseanta ann am Peairt leis a’ BhBC!
Bhithinn gu mòr ga mholadh, nì sibh ceangal cho dlùth ris a h-uile duine, tha na tidsearan agus an luchd-obrach air fad cho cuideachail.
Tha iad deònach ur cuideachadh ann am priobadh na sùla.
Agus, air an àrainn, tha na seallaidhean do-chreidsinneach, agus chì sibh dòbhrain agus ròin ann!
Tha Mhairi ag ionnsachadh air an DipHE ann am Meadhanan Gàidhlig aig Sabhal Mòr Ostaig, fear de chom-pàirtichean UHI.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnc-nautical-science:
Course code 006J
This course covers many different aspects of Nautical Science and forms part of the Merchant Navy Cadet Programme for students entering the industry as deck officers.
The programme runs over three years, the first year is the NC Shipping and Maritime Operations.
You will be supported throughout your training by a shipping company and receive an allowance and support at college, as well as spending a portion of your time on-board ships gaining hands-on marine training.
All cadets are employed or sponsored directly by a shipping company/ship manager, or indirectly by other organisations acting on their behalf, who provide the sea service and support throughout the programme.
Cadets normally receive a salary or training allowance for the complete duration of the programme from the employing or sponsoring organisation, which also pays tuition and other associated costs, although specific arrangements may vary between employing and sponsoring organisations.
It is also possible to undertake the HNC as a one-year stand-alone course for which there would be no requirement to spend time at sea.
For further information please contact Shetland UHI: cadets.shetland@uhi.ac.uk
Year 1 of the Cadet Programme :
Direct access to the HNC:
Taught subjects include:
Seagoing experience
The HNC Nautical Science mandatory units are:
Further seagoing experience plus:
Successful completion will result in:
Skills development and certification, including:
There are many opportunities for employment in a range of maritime-related industries for well-qualified and experienced ship’s officers.
The NC and HNC are prerequisites, together with specified sea service and ancillary short safety training courses, for the issue of the MCA Certificate of Competency.
The Certificate of Competency qualifies the holder to take charge of a navigational watch on the bridge of a ship at sea.
Further studies and exams will lead to senior certificates of Chief Mate/Master or following sea service as a junior officer
Opportunities exist for employment ashore in a range of maritime-related industries for well qualified and experienced ship’s officers
Please contact us to discuss your application to this course.
Tel: (01595) 772000
E-mail: cadets.shetland@uhi.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/msc-net-zero-communities:
Course code F853
Communities have a key role to play in the development of a net zero society.
Are you keen to discover more about how renewable energy production can play a central role in community development?
Do you want to be at the centre of and leading these developments?
In May 2019, the Committee on Climate Change recommended that the UK should aim to be net zero on all greenhouse gases by 2050.
A U.N-backed global campaign, the 'Race to Zero', which launched in June 2020, brings together businesses, cities and other organisations that aim to cut their planet-heating emissions to net zero by around mid-century, meaning they produce no more emissions than they can offset through different measures.
A number of community groups have emerged to develop local solutions that help to meet this target.
Communities will be at the centre and forefront of the new energy transition.
This MSc Net Zero Communities will enable you to take the lead and be the change in the new energy transition.
You will be taught by recognised experts and supported by guest lectures from both industry and community fields.
You can be confident you will graduate armed with the most up-to-date information and highest quality skills.
The course is designed to provide opportunities for both recent graduates and mature students working in relevant professions, industries, agencies or the voluntary sector to advance or update learning in sustainability issues, with a particular focus on providing net-zero solutions for communities.
It aims to develop practitioners with an advanced level of knowledge and competence in planning, developing, advising and delivering sustainable solutions in relevant public sector, industry or community contexts.
Studying online, on a full-time or part-time basis, you will critically analyse the theories, principles and concepts of renewable energy, carbon budgeting and community energy development.
Optional modules: Semester 1
To achieve the award of MSc Net Zero Communities you must complete the PgDip and a research dissertation.
For more information on other start dates please contact UHI North, West and Hebrides .
On completion of this Masters in Net Zero Communities, you will be well-equipped to take up positions in the management of community development projects, and in the public and private sectors .

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/cpd-award-net-zero-society-scqf-level-11:
Course code F85NZ
Embark on a transformative journey with our CPD Award Net Zero Society (SCQF level 11) module, an immersive experience designed for those seeking to make a lasting impact in the world of sustainability.
Take a step beyond the theory and towards solutions, as you learn to navigate the three pillars of sustainability: energy efficiency, renewable transitions, and behavioural change.
Surpass the ordinary as you delve into the intricacies of greenhouse gas emissions, energy efficiency, and the profound societal dimensions of achieving a net-zero future.
Experience a unique blend of academic rigor and practical application, ensuring you're not just informed but equipped to drive real-world change.
Choosing this module means choosing a future where you're not just a spectator in the sustainability narrative: become a key player, driving change and contributing to a net-zero society.
Embrace the challenge and embrace the future, one sustainable step at a time.
You may wish to progress from CPD Award Net Zero Society (SCQF level 11) to the following courses:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/bsc-nursing:
Course code : B740 Adult Nursing; B760 Mental Health Nursing
If you're looking for an exciting and rewarding career, nursing could be for you.
The University of the Highlands and Islands offers you the opportunity to undertake a nursing degree in the Highlands and Western Isles of Scotland, leading to professional registration as an Adult or Mental Health nurse with the Nursing and Midwifery Council.
Our BSc Nursing Programme is an innovative programme that combines the best of teaching, technology, simulation and practice experience to prepare you for an exciting career in nursing.
You will experience nursing care in a range of different hospital and community settings and you may have the opportunity to undertake some time on an international elective experience.
Your programme will provide you with the knowledge and skills to gain entry to the Nursing and Midwifery Council register as a nurse.
The primary purpose of the NMC is protection of the public.
It does this through maintaining a register of all qualified nurses, midwives and specialist community public health nurses eligible to practise within the UK and by setting national standards for their education, training and conduct.
The aim of the programme is to support your development into a confident and competent nurse, who can provide effective, compassionate care in a range of care settings.
You will have the opportunity to develop skills of critical reading, appreciation and analysis, numeracy and literacy.
For more information, come and see us at our open days or contact our Nursing Admissions team.
Important: Please click here to read our FAQ sheet for information about applying to this programme.
This programme is aimed at school or college leavers and mature entrants who have the desire and aptitude to care for people, carers and their families.
All applicants must satisfy the NMC requirements of numeracy and literacy skills sufficient to meet programme outcomes (NMC 2018).
All applicants will need to do this with acceptable qualifications in English and Maths, or successful completion of pre-course learning as instructed by the University.
Entry requirements:
Alternative qualifications For entry to year one we welcome applications from those with equivalent qualifications to those stated.
These include:
Applications from students with non-standard qualifications will be considered on an individual basis.
You must also have the below qualifications to gain entry to this course:
English/ESOL
Mathematics
Additional desired requirements:
English Language
Qualifications over 5 years old are considered on an individual basis
As part of the recruitment process, selected applicants will be invited to a compulsory interview which is designed specifically for entrants to nursing.
Full guidelines will be provided in advance of the interview including required preparation for the event.
It will be helpful for you at that stage to be familiar with the Nursing and Midwifery Code.
For further information visit our PVG scheme webpage .
All successful applicants must be passed fit by Occupational Health.
This will require an online questionnaire.
You may also be required to attend an in person appointment at the Occupational Health Department.
Evidence of your digital and technological literacy will be determined by successful completion of your online application.
There are two programmes available - Adult Nursing and Mental Health Nursing.
In the first year all students complete the same modules:
Modules for both degrees are:
Adult nursing students will also study:
Mental health nursing students will also study:
This is a full-time programme that consists of 50% theory and 50% clinical practice.
During clinical practice allocations it is expected that all students will undertake an average of 37.5 hours of prescribed clinical practice each week.
Students are required to experience a variety of shift patterns which will include night shifts, 12-hour shifts and weekend shifts; these shift patterns will usually be undertaken within a system that provides 24-hour, 7 day a week care.
The Centre for Rural Health Sciences has two campuses: one within UHI House, near Raigmore Hospital in Inverness, home to world-leading healthcare research, and the other based at UHI North, West and Hebrides, in the beautiful setting of Stornoway.
For students normally domiciled in Scotland, with a term-time address in Scotland, the following applies:
Those who meet the residency criteria and have not previously studied nursing (or midwifery) will have the full cost of their tuition fees covered.
If you are not sure of your residency eligibility you should contact the Students Awards Agency for Scotland .
Self-funding Scottish students will pay £1820 per year (The Home-Scotland fee rate is set by the Scottish Government).
Rest of the UK Students
Ireland) and with a term-time address in Scotland, the following fees apply:
Students from the rest of the UK can apply for tuition fee and living cost loan from their home funding body.
This course is not currently available for international students requiring Student Route visa sponsorship to study in the UK.
A no fee increase guarantee is available for self-funding undergraduate students for continuous study for the same award, up to the permitted standard time limit for the relevant award.
Scottish students who meet the residence criteria may be eligible for the Nursing and Midwifery Student Bursary, a non-repayable, non-income assessed bursary.
Depending on your personal circumstances, you may be able to apply for additional allowances.
Further details are available from the Student Awards Agency for Scotland (SAAS).
Authorised clinical placement expenses for accommodation and travel are reimbursed on receipt.
Students from the rest of the UK should apply to their home funding body for living cost loans.
The majority of nursing graduates entering employment find roles within the NHS, the public sector, as well as with private healthcare providers and the voluntary sector.
Following successful completion of your programme you will have a choice of practising as a nurse, going into a specialist or leadership role, undertaking further study, taking up research opportunities or teaching.
Career prospects are excellent with significant opportunities for further professional development and specialisation.
A UK registered nursing qualification is recognised in many countries around the world, and therefore provides potential opportunities for travel and work abroad.
You can progress from the undergraduate BSc in Nursing programme once successfully completed to a Masters and PhD Programme within the university.
The location of UHI was irresistible.
The Scottish Highlands have significant rural areas filled with large natural woodlands.
I like the idea of breathing fresh, clean air.
I liked the idea of learning in small groups than mostly being in overcrowded lecture rooms.
With small groups, tutors can support students better.
The tutors and lectures are very engaging.
I am grateful to all my tutors for being approachable and accessible when I needed their guidance.
The mental health nursing programme at UHI is uniquely designed.
It teaches students distinctive knowledge and skills needed for the Highland rural population.
This widens a doorway to endless opportunities.
UHI is a tight-knitted community.
It was easy for me to make friends beyond my classmates.
I found this beneficial especially that I am a bit remote from my immediate family.
Joseph is studying the BSc in Mental Health Nursing in Inverness.
Studying at UHI has been genuinely life changing.
Not only have I been supported to become a registered nurse, but they also encouraged me along my entrepreneurial journey to developing my own healthcare product.
Not only have they helped me test my idea in a research project, but the innovation department have supported and connected me to get my product to where it is now!
Roma studied the BSc Nursing at UHI's Centre for Health Science, Inverness.
Nursing is what I’ve always wanted to do and knowing the fantastic reputation that UHI has for delivering an exceptional nursing programme, I was never in any doubt that I’d stay local and study here.
The huge variety of placements in different clinical environments, have provided some unique learning opportunities and I’ve been able to work alongside specialist nurses, advanced nurse practitioners and consultants, which has helped me learn much more about their respective areas of expertise.
Darryl studied the BSc Nursing at UHI's Centre for Health Science, Inverness.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/pda-office-administration-scqf-level-7:
Course code 91N7
This professional development award is aimed at those working in an office administration role and aims to further develop knowledge and experience gained from the workplace.
This award will help you to develop technical and administrative knowledge relevant to current administrative practice, develop personal effectiveness skill and customer care skills.
You will also improve your communication and presentation techniques using IT and develop an awareness of legal and regulatory requirements in an administration environment.
You can go on to complete other PDAs and work towards HNC Administration and Information Technology.
This course is offered by blended learning, allowing you the flexibility of on-campus attendance and home study, to fit around work and life commitments.
The PDA in Office Administration will prepare candidates for employment in administrative roles within a wide range of public and private sector organisations.
The type of positions, which may be taken up by candidates within the business and administrative environments include:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/moptom-optometry-with-independent-prescribing:
Course code B511
There is a growing demand across our region and beyond for optometrists - highly skilled healthcare professionals, trained to examine the eyes to detect defects in vision, signs of injury, ocular diseases, and abnormalities - who are qualified to independently prescribe.
Join our innovative, interactive, integrated MOptom Optometry and Independent Prescribing programme, and develop the knowledge and skills you need to confidently pursue a career in this vital field and register as an optometrist with the General Optical Council.
Our progressive course follows a patient- and team-based approach to your learning and teaching, grounding you in foundational skills and building on them throughout each level.
Through this method, you will gain in-depth theoretical knowledge and practical experience, and develop key skills including critical thinking, problem solving, patient management, and independent prescribing, as you learn how to make clinical management decisions to provide exactly the right care and treatment plan for your patients.
Practical teaching within clinical workshops is delivered in modern, purpose-built facilities in Inverness.
Along with training in our clinical skills suite, in years 1-4 you will also undertake a total of 19 weeks of placements in community practice and hospital eye clinics, giving you unique and immediate access to the situations and emergencies dealt with by optometrists daily, experience that goes above and beyond anything that can be replicated in a university setting.
In year 5, you will spend your entire year in the field, with two paid 6-month placements in different types of practices.
During this period, you will cover the practical elements required for independent prescribing and, on successful completion of all modules and assessments, you will be eligible for the GOC register as an optometrist, with the specialist qualification of Independent Prescribing.
You will undertake two paid 6-month clinical placements, located across Scotland.
You will also complete the following core modules:
Students will get an automatic scholarship of £4,000 per annum and the 5th year of study will be free for those studying full-time, on continuous study, who have paid for the previous three years at the University of the Highlands and Islands.
In years 1-4, you will be responsible for travel and accommodation costs for clinical placements, located across the Scottish region:
As a fully qualified optometrist with independent prescribing you can use your skills in a variety of areas, including:
You may wish to progress to a PhD, or undertake further qualifications, such as those offered by the College of Optometrists.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/bsc-oral-health-science:
Course code B750
This leading degree in Oral Health Science offers prospective students (including school leavers, qualified dental nurses, and those who are considering a career change) the opportunity to train for a structured professional career in dental hygiene and dental therapy; a sector currently experiencing a shortage in skilled practitioners.
The role of dental hygienists and dental therapists is varied.
You will provide clinical and educational care in the community, including prevention, fillings and treatment for periodontal (gum) disease.
Strong values, an ethical approach and good communication skills, as well as the ability to work well in a team, are essential.
You will receive a thorough understanding in all aspects of dental care including the latest in practical skills and procedures.
Delivered from our purpose-built dental buildings in Inverness, Stornoway and Dumfries, you will have access to state-of-the-art equipment and a highly skilled team of clinical and academic staff.
Successful applicants must be passed fit by occupational health.
This will require a questionnaire and also a personal visit to the occupational health department in addition to and on a separate occasion to the interview day.
All applicants will be required to attend an interview.
Full guidelines will be provided in advance of the interview day, including required preparation for the event.
As part of the interview you will be expected to demonstrate the following:
Ireland, including Channel Islands and the Isle of Man), with a term-time address in Scotland, studying this course full time, the following fees apply:
This course is not available for international students (including EU/EEA and Swiss nationals without settled status in the UK) requiring Student Route visa sponsorship to study here..
Travel for radiography teaching in year 2 will be required and clinical placements in dental clinics across Scotland are offered in the final year; travel and accommodation costs will be covered for both, but you will need to cover any subsistence costs.
On successful completion of this BSc Oral Health Science course there will be many career opportunities open to you, including:
The tutors have been incredibly helpful and they were always just an email away if I needed any advice or support.
Tutorials were always interactive as we were such a small group, and there were often opportunities to have open discussions and ask questions without feeling judged.
The tutors always provided feedback after every patient I saw and every piece of work I submitted, which encouraged me to reflect, learn and grow in confidence.
I was really pleased that the tutorials were online as we were able to study from home.
The tutors were very supportive and provided me with all the tools and resources needed to develop my knowledge.
They were there for me on a personal level too and would often check on my general welfare.
Studying at UHI has changed my life for the better in terms of my career and job satisfaction.
I am so glad I was offered a place at UHI as I genuinely could not have asked for anything more from university!
I would strongly recommend enrolling on the BSc Oral Health Course at UHI.
Courtney studied the BSc Oral Health Science at UHI in Dumfries.
Applications to this course are now closed for September 2025 entry.
Applications for September 2026 will open in September 2025.
Please revisit this page then to apply.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/pgcert-outdoor-and-adventure-therapeutic-practice:
Course code B300
The PgCert Outdoor and Adventure Therapeutic Practice signals an important development for the adventure and therapy sectors, offering an innovative approach to defining and upholding professional standards for outdoor and adventure-based therapeutic practice.
Placing therapeutic theory and practice in professional adventure settings, this programme is essential for anyone wishing to expand into this field and enhance knowledge of therapeutic interventions in the outdoors.
You will undertake critical examination of the theory and evidence base for outdoor and adventure therapies, as well as reflective practice in building a therapeutic relationship with participants.
Group work complements individual study, allowing you to gain experience of therapeutic techniques and ideas, and develop your understanding of them in real-world, outdoor settings.
Your subsequent career path will be unique to you, depending on your prior experience and qualifications.
While the interdisciplinary nature of the programme will encourage and support you in building a community of practice, individual reflection will be key to defining your progression route out of the programme.
Objectives
The key objective of this programme is to prepare students to make an effective contribution to the outdoor and adventure therapy sector through the integration of key knowledge and skill domains.
To help position this more clearly, the programme is designed to align with the Institute for Outdoor Learning framework, “Mental Health Interventions model” (Richards, Hardie and Anderson, 2019) .
Graduating from this course will enable you to enter employment as a specialist in areas where you may be:
If you hold additional specialist qualifications and professional registration, you may wish to deepen the application of your skills to integrate “professional competence in both outdoor learning and psychological therapy to meet clients’ needs” (Zone 3), but this is not within the intended remit of the PGCert award.
*can be arranged around in-module residential courses for visiting students
Once you have successfully completed this course, you might like to consider:
Qualified and accredited counsellors and psychotherapists may also wish to integrate their knowledge and qualifications to practice in the outdoor and adventure therapeutic domain.
You may wish to progress from PgCert Outdoor and Adventure Therapeutic Practice into further study, to gain a Diploma in Counselling and Psychotherapy and beyond

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-philosophy:
Course code V500
If you're interested in exploring views, ideas, theories, practices and behaviours, BA (Hons) Philosophy is the course for you.
Socrates, one of the most famous philosophers of all times, said "I cannot teach anybody anything.
I can only make them think.": that is a core strength of philosophical studies.
In developing your ability to think well, you will be able to spot errors in reasoning, analyse complex issues and arguments, build a strong case and make a point with clarity and precision.
Philosophy seeks to understand, and particularly to question, ideas concerning the nature of reality, value and experience that play a pervasive role in understanding the world and ourselves.
The philosophy discipline focuses on problematic concepts, such as existence, reason and truth, which occur in every sphere of human enquiry, but more specifically on problematic concepts that belong to particular areas of thought and practice, such as politics, economics, religion, science and ethics.
Following the Covid crisis and its aftermath, we've become more accustomed to seeing political decision-makers flanked by scientists.
The Philosophy of Science is interested in analysing why science seems to be so successful in explaining reality.
With scientists playing an ever-increasing role in decision-making processes at all levels, we have to ask: are scientists the new priests of society?
Throughout the course you will apply this type of analytical and critical thinking to a range of 21st century issues such as: Is humanity headed in the right or wrong direction?
What is the best way for a person to attain happiness?
Will religion ever become obsolete?
What is the future of artificial intelligence?
Is there a meaning to life and, if so, what is it?
Other modules may include:
In addition to these philosophy modules, you will also be able to choose two modules from our range of humanity subjects.
Modules at this level may include:
Modules at this level might include:
In addition to these philosophy modules, you will also be able to choose an option module from our range of humanity subjects.
The core module is:
Other modules at this level might include: Semester 1
Philosophy graduates are found working for almost every type of employer in the public, private and not-for-profit sectors, from arts-based areas like publishing, the media, journalism, advertising and teaching, through to computing and IT.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-philosophy-and-history:
Course code V5PH
The BA (Hons) Philosophy and History covers a range of approaches, from thematic modules that cover a variety of places and historical periods, to concentrated and in-depth studies of the development of Western intellectual tradition.
Philosophy
Two from the list below:
Plus, two additional Humanities modules that are available as scheme options.
You will select a project module from either History or Philosophy.
You will also study the following modules.
Three from the list below:
You will complete a dissertation in Philosophy or History.
If you wish to exit with a Scottish History and Politics degree you must undertake a Scottish History dissertation plus at least one further Scottish History and one History module OR if you are undertaking a Politics dissertation, two of the three History modules must be in Scottish History.
Philosophy and History graduates are found working for almost every type of employer in the public, private and not-for-profit sectors.
Opportunities are available in arts-based areas like publishing, the media, journalism, advertising and teaching, through to computing and IT.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-philosophy-and-literature:
Course code V5PL
The BA (Hons) Philosophy and Literature covers a range of approaches.
Literature uses a wide range of authors and texts, from classic to contemporary, explores literature in a global context and looking in-depth at language and literary history.
Philosophy involves an in-depth study of the development of Western intellectual tradition.
Two core Philosophy modules:
Two core Literature modules:
Plus two additional Humanities modules that are available as scheme options.
Philosophy:
Literature - you will pick two of the following modules:
Three Philosophy modules from the list below:
Three Literature modules from the list below:
You will complete a dissertation in Philosophy or Literature.
Philosophy modules may include:
Literature modules may include:
Philosophy and Literature graduates are found working for almost every type of employer in the public, private and not-for-profit sectors.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-philosophy-and-politics:
Course code V5PP
The BA (Hons) Philosophy and Politics covers a range of approaches.
Politics investigates how political structures and ideologies shape our lives and are organised differently around the world.
Philosophy is an in-depth study of Western intellectual tradition.
You will complete a dissertation in Philosophy or Politics.
Philosophy and Politics graduates are found working in almost every type of employer in the public, private and not-for-profit sectors.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-philosophy-and-sociology:
Course code V5PS
The BA (Hons) Philosophy and Sociology covers a range of approaches.
Sociology investigates the dynamics of the social world we live in.
Philosophy is an in-depth study of the development of the Western intellectual tradition.
You will complete a dissertation in Philosophy or Sociology.
Philosophy and Sociology graduates are found working in almost every type of employer in the public, private and not-for-profit sectors.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-philosophy-and-theology:
Course code V5PT
This degree combines two of the oldest and most important disciplines of investigation.
Theological studies investigate the intellectual claims of Christian religion.
The theological element will focus on the intellectual underpinnings of the Christian tradition, through the application of a wide range of skills and disciplines, both historical, textual, linguistic, hermeneutical and sociological.
Philosophical studies focus on intellectual skills such as analysis, reasoning and logical thinking, and applying such skills in the investigation of reality.
Two Theology modules from the list below:
Two Philosophy modules from the list below:
Three Philosophy modules from the list below:
Three Theology modules from the list below:
You will complete a dissertation in Philosophy or Theology.
Philosophy and Theology graduates are found working in almost every type of employer in the public, private and not-for-profit sectors.
Theology studies may lead you into teaching and even ministry.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-philosophy-politics-and-economics:
Course code VL52
This multidisciplinary programme offers the unique opportunity to study three of the most important realities impacting people’s lives.
The comprehensive programme aims to analyse core features within each area.
Economics : You will examine how economic agents (individuals, households, and businesses) and markets behave and interact, and are influenced by economical features such as inflation, economic growth and unemployment, and monetary and fiscal policy.
Politics : You will examine how politics shapes our lives and how it is organised differently around the world.
You will explore the various forms of governance operating in clans, modern local and national governments, institutions, sovereign states, and at international level.
Philosophy : Philosophy seeks to understand and critically question ideas concerning the nature of reality, values, and experiences, that play a pervasive role in understanding the world and ourselves.
Problematic concepts, such as existence, reason, truth, etc, will be studied as they are important realities in every sphere of human experience.
Other concepts belong to areas of thought and practice, such as art and politics: in this programme, you will explore these ideas and concepts and how they influence society.
Economics
You must also complete a dissertation (40 credits) (S1 and S2)
The BA (Hons) Philosophy, Politics and Economics is an interdisciplinary programme allowing graduates to pursue a career in economics; business; public services, including the civil and diplomatic services and local government; or to undertake further study in areas such as law, journalism, social work or education.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnc-photography:
Course code 146W
Are you a creative practitioner, looking to build a solid technical and theoretical foundation in the field of contemporary photography?
Maybe you’re looking to expand your academic experience?
Do both with our Photography HNC.
Explore a range of different genres such as portraiture, environment, still life, and documentary practice, whilst generating an extended portfolio.
Base yourself mainly in your home region, with three short practical residentials held separately at our Broadford and Alness campuses.
Take advantage of specialist printing facilities and participate in our  portfolio presentation module, with opportunities to present your work to the public.
You will need access to photographic equipment and computer facilities with editing software, plus sufficient studio space for practical work.
You can study the online elements of this course from anywhere in the UK, including your local campus .
You will be enrolled and supported by staff at UHI North, West and Hebrides.
On successful completion of the course you will be equipped with the knowledge and skills required to become a freelance photographer, working in a broad range of photographic genres and disciplines, as well as being an able candidate for photographic jobs in business.
Successful completion of this HNC supports progression to an HND Photography or other creative discipline, or you may choose to follow in the footsteps of recent graduates who have successfully progressed into:
The part-time and mostly remote way of learning was very well suited to me, I have learned immensely during the HNC Photography and would not have been able to consider a career in photography without this course.
My favourite thing about UHI is the flexibility of the studies with part-time and distance learning options available.
This is especially important for rural areas such as the Highlands where travel distances can be considerable.
I am so extremely grateful for the opportunity to study a subject that interests me, and I have gained more knowledge within the 2 years than I ever thought I would!
Noru Innes is studying HNC Photography at UHI North, West and Hebrides.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-politics:
Course code L240
This BA (Hons) Politics degree is designed to look at the three main areas of political study: Political theory, International relations, and Comparative politics.
The course will give you a solid grounding in all of the main debates and controversies of the day, as well as developing the skills to investigate, research, and explore subjects further.
The course is delivered by a team who have worked hard to establish relationships with potential employers such as local governments, political parties, lobbying companies, the voluntary sector, parliaments, and the trade union movement.
Guest speakers, workshops, and masterclasses are built into the course, with an optional placement module in the third year, based in a political environment, that will help you gain invaluable experience in the field.
You will complete a dissertation.
Additional modules may include:
On completion of your BA (Hons) Politics degree you will be ready to embark on a career in many different and fulfilling areas.
Not only will you be ready for the corridors of power in public office, but a wealth of government jobs will become increasingly available in many different sectors, for example:
The degree is very desirable as a starting point for further training in areas such as journalism, PR, marketing and research.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/pda-politics-scqf-level-7:
Course code 90L2
Are you curious about politics, political concepts, and theories of the state?
Join our Politics PDA at SCQF level 7, with options to study either or both of our dedicated modules, and examine political structures within the UK, including Westminster and the Scottish Parliament, as well as looking at the work of pressure groups in our society.
Develop your critical thinking as you explore key political concepts such as accountability, citizenship, democracy, equality, justice, liberty, power, authority, and rights, to help you formulate an increased understanding of modern political systems.
Contact the relevant UHI partner for more information.
You may wish to progress from PDA Politics to the following courses:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-politics-and-archaeology:
Course code L3PA
The BA (Hons) Politics and Archaeology joint degree focuses on the different political structures and ideologies across the world and how they shape our lives, with exploration of a range of archaeological skills such as: fieldwork, surveying and post-excavation, mapped to the current occupational standards for archaeology.
Joint honours programmes give you the opportunity to combine two subjects which complement your interests or career goals.
You will also choose two archaeology option modules, which may include:
Plus one further option module from our range of humanities degrees.
You will complete a dissertation in politics or archaeology.
Politics modules may include:
Once you have successfully completed your BA (Hons) Politics and Archaeology there are a variety of careers you might like to consider, such as:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-politics-and-criminology:
Course code L3PC
The BA (Hons) Politics and Criminology joint degree focuses on the different political structures and ideologies across the world and how they shape our lives, with the exploration of the changing nature of crime and the social, political, historical and individual forces behind these changes.
You will also choose one option module from our range of humanities degrees.
You will also choose one option module from our range of humanities degrees.
You will complete a dissertation in politics or criminology.
Once you have successfully completed your BA (Hons) Politics and Criminology, there are a variety of careers you might like to consider, such as:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-politics-and-theology:
Course code L3PT
The BA (Hons) Politics and Theology focuses on the different political structures and ideologies across the world and how they shape our lives, with the study of the main disciplines of Christian theology.
You will also choose one option module in theology from the following:
Plus one further option module from our range of humanities subjects.
You will complete a dissertation in politics or theology.
Once you have successfully completed your BA (Hons) Politics and Theology, there are a variety of career paths you might like to consider, such as:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-popular-music:
Course code W310
Let your musical ambitions take centre stage, on our acclaimed and well-established BA (Hons) Popular Music course.
With expert advice from our team of professional performers, composers, and academics, find your voice and sing your heart out as you develop your creative and professional skills, in a positive and stimulating learning environment.
Enjoy excellent on-campus facilities including music production workstations (Pro-Tools and Logic), band rehearsal rooms, a professional performance theatre, and three state-of-the-art acoustically-designed Eastlake recording studios.
Perform solo and with a band, in renowned venues and festivals around Scotland, and explore your full creative potential in all course work, from song writing and composition, to collaboration and research.
You will be asked to attend an audition and interview.
You should prepare and perform a piece that demonstrates your skillset on your instrument or voice and, for writers, this can be an original composition or song.
As a guideline, grade 4/5 is a rough equivalent of performance level for this course.
However, consideration will also be given to musicians with similar experience that have not participated in graded repertoire.
The interview will give you the opportunity to see our campus, meet staff and learn more about the course, including the resources and learning opportunities we offer to support your development.
Year one is the HNC Music .
Once you have successfully completed your BA (Hons) Popular Music, a variety of career paths will be open to you in the music and media industries.In the past, graduates have gone on to work in many areas of the music industry and education.
Career destinations include:
If you have the talent and determination and are prepared to develop this by study in an excellent learning environment then these possibilities are now open to you for a future career.
You can progress to the MMus Music or to other masters or postgraduate study such as a PGDE or TQFE.
The modules looked really interesting to me, and I knew they would cover lots of different areas of the industry.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/cpd-award-prescribing-for-healthcare-professionals:
Course code 90B2
The aim of this CPD Award Prescribing for Healthcare Professionals (SCQF level 11 - equivalent to RQF level 7) (also known as a V300 course) is to prepare nurses, paramedics and allied health professionals (physiotherapists, chiropodists, podiatrists and therapeutic radiographers) to gain the qualification of Independent and Supplementary Prescriber and for diagnostic radiographers and dieticians as Supplementary Prescribers.
Successful completion of the course will allow practitioners to prescribe safely and competently within the context of their professional role and related legislation.
You must also provide:
Students wishing to study the CPD Prescribing for Healthcare Professionals as part of the MSc Advanced Nurse Practitioner/Professional Practice should click here to apply via the course page .
This course is not available for international students requiring Student Route visa sponsorship to study in the UK and cannot be studied outside of the UK.
You may wish to progress into further study on one of our postgraduate courses:
Due to unprecedented demand, we are no longer accepting applications to this course for 2025/26.
However, if you work for one of our partners, NHS Highland, NHS Orkney, NHS Shetland or NHS Western Isles, the application deadline for January 2026 starts is 14th November 2025 and you should contact admissions@uhi.ac.uk for further information

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/pgde-primary-english-medium:
Course code X100
The PGDE consists of 18 weeks study at the university, plus 18 weeks of professional practice in schools.
The placements in schools are arranged nationally and you will be placed in schools within travelling distance of your home or term-time address.
This course is offered at eight of our UHI campuses who work in partnership with their local authority.
You will be required to have a home or term-time address in the local authority area of your chosen campus.
It is also offered in partnership with the Scottish Borders council for applicants based in the Borders, who become registered through UHI Perth.
You will benefit from studying in small, locally based groups while collaborating remotely with other student teachers and tutors across the university’s network of centres.
The programme overlaps significantly with the PGDE Secondary to offer a cross-sector perspective.
Important: Please click here to read our FAQ sheet for essential information about applying to this programme.
In addition to the above, applicants must hold the following qualifications prior to starting the course:
English:
Mathematics or Applications of Mathematics:
We recognise the current difficulties in gaining direct work or voluntary experience with primary-aged children.
We expect your personal statement and supporting reference to clearly demonstrate what has informed your sense of readiness to apply now to become a primary teacher.
Selection events are usually held virtually in late February or early March.
Applicants who have lived outside the UK for a period of six or more consecutive months in the past five years will also be required to provide criminal records checks from all relevant countries prior to enrolment on the course.
Applications for the PGDE in Primary Education must be made through the main UCAS scheme in the same way as undergraduate courses .
This applies to all institutions in Scotland delivering the PGDE.
Applicants must provide details of their degree, English and Mathematics qualifications within the application, as failure to do so will lead to automatic rejection.
Application deadlines include submission of references.
It is the applicant's responsibility to ensure that referees are aware of the deadlines and that the application is submitted fully prior to the relevant deadline.
PGDE Taught Modules
Building Professional Knowledge and Understanding (20 credits) This module introduces the PGDE weekly themes, through key readings, tutor input and collaborative tasks.
You will make connections between what you read or hear and other readings, observations, discussions and school-based practice experience.
The themes have been aligned to the GTCS (2021) Standard for Provisional Registration.
Module keywords: collaborative, learning, teaching, policy, practice, curriculum, professionalism
Developing Teacher Identity and Practice (20 credits) This module builds upon and develops the PGDE weekly themes, through individual tasks and a group seminar.
The module supports you to dig deeper into the weekly themes and to take ownership of them, in terms of the professional learning you will need to undertake to support becoming ready for classroom practice.
Module keywords: learning, teaching, policy, practice, pedagogy, curriculum, identity, professionalism, agency
Reflection and Enquiry as Professional Learning (20 credits) This module is delivered by tutor-led workshops linked to work in dialogic triads with students in each partner campus.
This dialogue focuses on the development of reflection as a key skill to underpin classroom practice and enquiry, and on gathering evidence as the means to illustrate practice aligned to the GTCS (2021) Standard for Provisional Registration.
The workshops and activities relate directly to academic writing, programme assignments and an e-portfolio of professional learning.
Module Keywords: policy, practice, pedagogy, curriculum, reflection, enquiry, criticality
Professional Practice (Primary) (60 credits) The Professional Practice (Primary) module engages you in tutor-led workshops linked to collaborative tasks in each partner campus, as the means to prepare you for 18 weeks of school placement teaching experience in three different schools and age ranges.
Sessions are designed to enrich foundational aspects of classroom practice through a range of learning and teaching methods, to mirror the active and social learning processes you will employ in the classroom with your pupils.
Module Keywords: schools, learning, teaching, policy, practice, pedagogy, curriculum, reflection, enquiry
Graduates will hold provisional registration as a primary teacher with the General Teaching Council for Scotland (GTC Scotland).
This qualifies students with Scottish and RUK fee status to apply for GTC Scotland’s induction year, the Teacher Induction Scheme (TIS), which can then allow teachers to qualify for the status of full registration (your fee status is assessed based on both nationality and residency criteria, and will be stipulated in your offer letter).
Students from non-EU countries are not eligible to join the TIS but can follow the Flexible Route to complete their probationary service if they are able to remain in Scotland on the completion of their studies.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/pgde-primary-english-medium-part-time:
Course code X135
This PGDE Primary (English Medium) (part-time) programme is aimed at graduates wishing to follow a part-time route to become a Primary teacher in Scotland.
It begins with online study, Monday evening online seminars and one day per week in school, and builds up to five-day weeks in school placements, between April and June of year 2.
Please read the FAQs to see a draft calendar and for more detail about the course structure.
Important: Please click here to read our FAQ sheet for essential information about applying to this programme
Our full-time programmes are not available by distance learning:
You may also study our full-time Primary and Secondary PGDE programmes in Gaelic:
Year 1
Year 2
*(Standard for Provisional Registration)
Number of hours per week indicates the total number of hours you should dedicate to the course, including time spent on individual study, in lectures and tutorials, and on placement.
This online course can be studied from anywhere in Scotland, with school placements in local schools.
You will be enrolled at UHI Inverness and supported by staff from across the University.
Ireland, including Channel Islands and the Isle of Man) studying in Scottish or assessed as rest of the UK for fee status, the following fees apply:
Eligible students who are resident and studying in Scotland can apply for a part-time fee grant from the Student Awards Agency for Scotland (SAAS).
This course is not available to students domiciled outside of the UK or for international students (including EU/EEA and Swiss nationals without settled status in the UK) requiring Student Route visa sponsorship to study here..
External scholarships and financial support may be available via the Student Awards Agency for Scotland (SAAS).
You will be expected to cover costs for:
Students based on an island may need to complete the final six-week placement off-island.
Travel and accommodation will be supported for this.
This qualifies students with Scottish and RUK fee status to apply for the Teacher Induction Scheme (TIS), GTC Scotland’s induction year, which can then allow you to qualify for the status of full registration (your fee status is assessed based on both nationality and residency criteria, and will be stipulated in your offer letter).
Students from non-EU countries are not eligible to join the TIS, but you can follow the Flexible Route to complete your probationary service if you are able to remain in Scotland on the completion of your studies.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/pgde-primary-gaelic-medium:
The Professional Graduate Diploma in Education (PGDE) consists of 18 weeks study at the university, plus 18 weeks in professional practice in schools.
You must be a fluent Gaelic speaker at the start of this course and your language proficiency will be assessed at interview.
Parts of the course are delivered through the medium of Gaelic and you will complete the majority of your school practice in classes that provide Gaelic Medium Education.
The Gaelic medium pathway is offered in partnership with Argyll and Bute, Comhairle nan Eilean Siar, Highland, and Perth and Kinross Councils, each working with the university through the relevant local campus at:
Graduates of the course will hold provisional registration as a primary teacher with the General Teaching Council for Scotland.
You will benefit from studying in small, locally based groups while collaborating remotely with other student teachers and tutors across the university’s network of colleges.
The course is taught with the PGDE Primary (English medium) and overlaps significantly with the PGDE Secondary to offer a cross-sector perspective.
A mandatory three-day residential induction is held at the start of the course with a further one in March which focuses on STEM and developing teacher leadership.
Each local cohort will also organise a showcase event at the end of the course, as part of developing leadership.
Important: please read our FAQ sheet for further information about this programme .
In addition to the above, applicants must hold:
Mathematics or Applications for Mathematics:
PDGE Taught Modules
Collaborative Practice (20 credits)
This module will develop teachers who are critically reflective, accomplished and enquiring professionals, able to fully engage with the complexities of education and become key people in shaping educational change.
It will enable an understanding of the nature of curriculum and its development, the relevance to the modern world and a changing society.
The module will examine how Curriculum for Excellence aims to achieve a transformation in education by providing a more enriched, coherent and flexible curriculum.
Students will be equipped with the skills to plan, teach and assess within a curriculum framework where the focus is on themes across learning and working with their class and teaching colleagues as part of the whole school.
Enquiry and Practice (20 credits)
This module is aimed at establishing children and young people’s learning, and their classroom experiences as learners, as the central focus for students’ enquiry into their own practice, as the key driver for all planning, teaching and assessment decisions made.
The module is closely linked to the four blocks of Placement experience in Gaelic medium settings, to enhance understanding of learning as a continuum.
Reflective Practice (20 credits)
The module will equip students with the necessary tools to develop an enquiring and critical approach to their teaching, as part of their own personal and professional resources to ensure continuing growth and development.
It aims to ensure that the aspirant teacher will become a reflective professional, embodying the necessary skills to think seriously about the quality of children and young people’s learning and the ways in which their own practice impacts on learning.
The module will also give students a critical appreciation of how the key concepts of language understanding and development are integrated into teaching and how they impact on each other.
Professional Practice (Primary)  (60 credits)
For this module, you will develop your teaching practice and professional identity as a teacher in three 6-week blocks of school placements in three different schools.
These are allocated nationally via the Student Placement System to afford experience of learning within different levels of Curriculum for Excellence.
You will gradually increase the duration and scope of your responsibility for learning, teaching and assessment in your school placement class, culminating in taking full responsibility for the class for an agreed period of consecutive full days during the final 6-week placement.
Teaching students who are preparing for a career in Gaelic education can apply for a Gaelic Education Grant from Bòrd na Gàidhlig.
Successful applicants will receive further information about how to apply.
Students from non-EU countries are not eligible to join the TIS but can follow the Flexible Route to complete their probationary service if they are able to remain in Scotland on the completion of their studies – see: Teacher Induction Scheme FAQs .

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnc-professional-cookery:
Course code 122N
If you are an aspiring chef and would like to develop your skills and knowledge in professional cookery and kitchen management, the HNC Professional Cookery is a great place to start.
You will experience advanced, modern cookery techniques and look at food product development.
The training environment is learner-centred and focuses on current industry standards.
Option units may include:
To participate in the practical kitchen activities, you will be required to purchase a branded uniform at the start of term, which will cost approximately £150.
On completion of your course in professional cookery you might want to consider employment at supervisory level such as sous chef or as a chef de partie.
You can progress to year two of our BA (Hons) Hospitality Management .
I started my student journey with UHI on HND Professional Cookery and it was the fact that world-renowned chefs Andrew Fairlie and Tom Kitchin had studied here that really made attracted me to the course.
My favourite thing about this university is the staff and lecturers.
They made me feel special, cared for, and part of a larger community.
I was known by my name, rather than feeling I was just a number.
When things were tough, my tutors were always there to provide support, reassurance and steer me along the right path.
Denny studied Professional cookery at UHI Perth.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/pda-professional-cookery-scqf-level-7:
Course code 93N8
This Professional Development Award (PDA) Professional Cookery (SCQF level 7) is designed to support continuing professional development for individuals in professional kitchens and to help address the well-documented and ongoing skill shortages for highly skilled chefs and pastry chefs.
They are suitable for learners who:
Many chefs in the sector have been promoted to positions of Chefs or Sous Chefs on the basis of their experience but without qualifications.
This PDA will allow you to gain practical and specialist skills at a high level, along with certification for the level of work that you are performing.
On completion of your course you might like to consider Supervisory Kitchen positions in:
You may wish to progress from PDA Professional Cookery (SCQF Level 7) to the following courses:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-professional-golf:
Course code C690
Focus your sights on golf coaching and performance on our BA (Hons) Professional Golf, delivered from our UHI Centre for Golf campus and run as part of our partnership with the Professional Golfers' Association (PGA).
Pursue your aspirations of a career in this thriving and varied field on this comprehensive course, unique in Scotland, with 82% of recent graduates employed in a range of roles within the golf industry.
Access our dedicated, on-site specialist teaching facilities and equipment, including Trackman, Foresight, Zen, PuttView and SAM Puttlab.
Benefit from a range of seasonal internships each year at prestigious UK and International venues, studying themes such as coaching, equipment technology, sports science, and business, with a particular focus on industry demands met by professional coaches.
Enjoy the atmosphere and community of Dornoch, close to the world-renowned Royal Dornoch Golf Club, and benefit from our partnership with the PGA, including access to PGA engagement and support, guest lectures, and opportunities to join the association as a trainee, gain membership of the PGA when you graduate (subject to application), and gain PGA coaching awards through this route.
In the first year you will be introduced to general concepts in the golf industry and professional sport.
You will continue to build on and develop the concepts from year one and begin to evaluate their application in practice.
New topics will also be introduced.
In the third year, academic skills will be further developed alongside practical and industry-specific skill sets.
The honours year is used to deepen your understanding and consolidate the themes carried throughout the programme.
You will also complete a dissertation (double-credits), or research and present a plan for a new business venture.
You will learn through a combination of face-to-face tutorials and lectures, enhanced by field trips, practical tuition, video conferencing and online study via the university’s virtual learning environment (VLE).
This is enhanced by guest lectures from leading industry figures, regular practical sessions utilising state-of-the-art coaching and analysis equipment, on-site tuition, and assisting in coaching at various schools and golf clubs.
Alternatively the new DipHE Professional Golf PGA programme is a distance learning, 3 year part-time programme that can be studied while working at a golf facility in Scotland.
There is an additional cost of £349 for the NGB Coaching level 2 award.
Once you have successfully completed this course, you might like to consider the following careers:
As the General Manager at Royal Dornoch, I am excited to see the university expand the courses on offer which will give many more young people interested in golf the opportunity to make the game their career whether playing, coaching, retailing or administering.
We want Royal Dornoch to be a big part of this and encouraging them to enjoy playing golf at Royal Dornoch while studying, will help send the best educated and equipped graduates into the market place.
Neil Hampton, General Manager, Royal Dornoch Golf Club

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-professional-golf-pga:
Course code C69PG
Are you a PGA Golf Professional looking to broaden your horizons and take your qualifications to the next level?
Advance your career with our BA (Hons) Professional Golf PGA course.
This part-time, distance learning top-up degree is designed specifically for PGA members like you who want to convert their existing qualifications into a full BA (Hons) qualification.
Many countries, including those in the Middle East and Asia, are increasingly asking for degree-level qualifications for work visas and senior positions, particularly in regions like the UAE.
Whether you're aiming to enhance your career prospects, meet visa requirements for international roles, or simply achieve a higher level of academic recognition, this course offers a flexible and accessible pathway.
This top-up programme covers Years 3 and 4 of the BA (Hons) Professional Golf and is open exclusively to current full PGA members.
It's ideally suited for professionals already working in the industry who wish to study while continuing their careers.
Until now, this route has been available only to students in Scotland and the rest of the UK, but we’re excited to offer it globally, reaching the many PGA members working overseas.
By completing this course, you'll not only gain a highly respected qualification but also significantly boost your global employability and readiness for leadership roles in the golf industry.
Advanced entry/Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL):
Once you have successfully completed this course, there are a number of career pathways for you to consider:
You may wish to progress from BA (Hons) Professional Golf PGA to our PgCert Management in Golf .

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/diphe-professional-golf-pga:
Course code C695
The DipHE Professional Golf PGA, unique in Scotland, is a result of a partnership between the university and The Professional Golfers’ Association (The PGA).
The 3-year, structured part-time Diploma in Higher Education is aimed at those currently employed, or seeking employment, as PGA trainees working full-time at golf facilities across Scotland.
The programme is recognised by The PGA and graduates gain membership of The PGA (subject to application).
The DipHE will incorporate themes relevant to the varied demands of the golf industry and address issues faced by professional golfers and coaches.
These themes will develop from year one and encompass individual and group coaching, equipment technology, sports science and business elements.
The work-based component of the programme is key as it allows you to apply your learning to your own employment circumstances and also provides you with access to a PGA qualified employer who can support your learning.
Additional Coaching Qualifications
All students will undertake two additional coaching qualifications during the training programme.
Successful completion of these qualifications is compulsory for PGA Membership.
The first coaching qualification will introduce the core elements of coaching and provide you with the key knowledge, understanding, skills, and abilities to begin coaching golf.
The second qualification will build on the foundations laid by the first and seek to ensure that you are competent in planning, delivering, and reviewing coaching sessions, with the clear ability to review and improve your own coaching practice.
Both qualifications are a blend of online learning and face to face delivery, and successful completion of each one relies on passing a combination of theoretical and practical assessments of your coaching knowledge and skills.
The cost of these courses is part of the Additional PGA elements fee, which you pay directly to the PGA each year.
First year will introduce you to general concepts in the golf industry and professional sport.
You will continue to build on and develop the concepts from year one and begin to evaluate their application in practice.
New topics will also be introduced.
In third year, academic skills will be further developed alongside the practical and industry-specific skill sets.
You will study through a combination of face-to-face, video conference, online, workshop and practical approaches to support your work-based learning.
This study method takes account of the demands and expectations of your job, online learning materials will be delivered through the university virtual learning environment (VLE).
E-lessons, lectures, activities and assessments have been designed and developed in each subject area.
These are interactive, visually stimulating and engage the learner.
You will be required to attend residential components, where you will engage in face-to-face lectures and workshops.
You will also be required to pay annual PGA membership fees**.
If you do not have a term-time address in Scotland you will pay the fee detailed below for the rest of the UK students .
The fee above includes the cost of additional PGA elements.
You will also be required to pay annual PGA membership fees (see below**).
You should have maintained a handicap of 6.4(males) or 8.4 (females).
**PGA Trainees will be required to pay annual PGA membership fees of approximately £238 (VAT not applicable).
Please note the Board of Directors annually reviews subscription fees and this figure is based on the current rate.
If you live in Scotland and you have an individual income of £25,000 per year or less, you may be eligible for a part-time fee grant.
Further information on eligibility and how to apply is available from the Scottish Awards Agency for Scotland (SAAS) .
Once you have successfully completed this course, you might like to consider careers in the golf industry and beyond.
Opportunities may include:
Graduates from the DipHE can continue to honours degree level study on the university's full-time BA (Hons) Professional Golf.
Advanced entry to this would be into year three of the programme.
Thank you for your interest in studying Professional Golf PGA DipHE with us.
If you are ready to apply, please start your application below by
REGISTERING YOUR INTEREST WITH THE PGA
After registering your interest, you will be provided with details of all aspects of the PGA Training Programme and the entry requirements.
Once you have registered your interest you can start your application by selecting when you would like to start your course.
This will take you to our online application system.
If you're not quite ready, please call us on 01463 279190 if there is anything we can do to help you with your decision.
We will handle your query in line with our Privacy Notice .

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/pda-professional-pastry-scqf-level-7:
Course code 94N8
With a growing spotlight on baking and patisserie, via tv shows like the Great British Bake Off, there is a growing demand for experienced professionals to bring pastry and bakery skills to the kitchen.
This PDA Professional Pastry (SCQF level 7) has been designed to support continuing professional development for individuals in professional kitchens and to help address the well-documented and ongoing skill shortages for highly skilled chefs and pastry chefs.
It is suitable for learners who:
Students may be required to purchase Chef Whites for relevant practical sessions (approx £30).
On completion of your course you might like to consider Pastry Chef or Supervisory Kitchen positions in:
You may wish to progress from PDA Professional Pastry (SCQF Level 7) to the following courses:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/bsc-hons-psychology:
Course code C800
On this BSc (Hons) Psychology, accredited by the British Psychological Society (BPS), you will learn the skills and analytical abilities that employers in a range of careers are looking for.
Choosing a psychology degree opens the door to a diverse range of topics, all of which are concerned with understanding behaviour and exploring the mind.
Psychology is not just about the study of mental health and you will not be able to read minds by the end of the degree.
It does, however, deal with the understanding and explanation of human behaviour and how this changes and develops throughout our lives.
Psychology is a science which allows us to understand the mind and behaviour through experimentation and observation.
You will not only learn how to ask research questions but, importantly, you will develop the skills and understanding to know how to find the answers to these questions.
You will graduate with a rounded understanding of the key domains in psychology and with specific knowledge of specialist areas.
You will also have developed critical skills of analysis and evaluation; you will be able to communicate effectively and solve problems efficiently.
The degree is fully accredited by the British Psychological Society, allowing graduates who complete with at least second-class honours to achieve Graduate Basis for Chartered Membership (GBC).
This is the first step towards becoming a Chartered Psychologist.
Direct entry to year two may be available if you have completed a 15-credit HNC Social Sciences which includes either:
View our interactive introduction to the course
Subjects include: Semester 1
You must also choose two additional modules in both semesters 1 and 2, which may include:
Ireland, including Channel Islands and the Isle of Man)) and with a term-time address in Scotland studying this course full-time, the following fees apply:
You must attend a one- or two-day induction in year 1 at the Inverness campus, plus a one-week residential held in Inverness each year.
This is compulsory for eligibility for BPS registration on graduation.
You will be responsible for any travel and accommodation costs.
Once you have successfully completed your BSc (Hons) Psychology course, you will be in a position to consider a wide range of careers.
Psychological knowledge and its associated research skills are highly regarded by employers and have a range of applications, for example in industry, commerce, health, marketing, research, and human resource management.
Learning at UHI has allowed me to stay at home and avoid the uncertainties of living in a new city during a challenging time.
Not only did this save me money on accommodation expenses, but the UHI’s online course also provided the flexibility to work alongside my studies.
I am pleased with my decision to attend UHI and appreciate the opportunities it has offered me.
My studies have laid a strong foundation for my career progression by equipping me with essential knowledge, skills, and experiences.
I have gained a deeper understanding of human behaviour, communication, and the psychological factors that influence individuals and communities.
My studies have provided me with a comprehensive toolkit that will empower me to make an impact in my chosen career path and contribute positively to society
My favourite things about UHI are the supportive and inclusive community that UHI fosters a welcoming and diverse environment where students from all around Scotland can thrive and learn from one another.
The flexible learning options, which have allowed me to balance work equestrian commitments, providing me with invaluable flexibility.
Also, the dedicated faculty, committed to student success, offering personalised support and guidance throughout my academic journey.
Olivia is studying the BSc (Hons) Psychology at UHI Inverness.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/pda-psychology-scqf-level-7:
Course code 90C8
Are you intrigued by the human mind and behaviour?
Join our PDA in Psychology at SCQF level 7, with options to study either or both of our dedicated modules, and explore the historical development of psychology since the 19th century, including the four major schools of thought that have influenced development, and the famous psychologists who have shaped this discipline.
Build the skills and knowledge needed to progress to a higher level of study or pursue employment in this fascinating field.
You may wish to progress from PDA Psychology to the following courses:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/msc-psychology-conversion:
Course code C810
Are you interested in the science of human behaviour and thought?
Are you thinking about a career change or interested in how psychology might contribute to your existing career or interest?
If so, this MSc Psychology Conversion programme is ideal for you.
This British Psychological Society (BPS) accredited online course will provide you with a broad and critical awareness of psychological theory and practice.
Throughout the course, you will develop an understanding of what drives people's behaviour, why we are unique and in what ways we are the same.
You will explore the theories which explain human behaviour and how they are relevant in today's society.
You will examine the core fields of psychology, including biological, individual differences, cognitive, social, and developmental psychology, as set out by the British Psychological Society.
Learning in these core domains will be supported by an exploration of research methods.
Alongside acquiring the key concepts and core knowledge of psychology, you will build strong project management, analytical (including statistical analysis) and report-writing skills.
Your learning experience will culminate in a substantial research project/dissertation, for which you will have support from your supervisor.
On successful completion of the programme you will be eligible to apply for Graduate Basis for Chartered Membership of the BPS.
This allows you to apply for further masters-level study in specialised vocational areas of psychology.
The majority of the course is online, with a schedule of weekly activities which can be completed in your own time.
There is a one-day virtual induction at the end of August and a 4-day residential programme in Inverness in late March.
Attendance at these two elements is compulsory to be eligible for BPS registration on graduation.
Plus two of the following core modules:
You will also select the remaining module from the PgCert list:
To achieve the award of MSc you must complete the six core modules for the PgCert and PgDip and a research project/dissertation.
There is a maximum period of six years for completion of masters-level study.
£4,332
This course is not available to students domiciled outside of the UK or for international students requiring Student Route visa sponsorship to study in the UK.
On successful completion of the masters you will be eligible to apply for Graduate Basis for Chartership (GB) with the British Psychological Society.
This allows you to go on to further masters level study in specialised vocational areas of psychology or to apply for posts requiring an undergraduate degree in Psychology.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/scqf-level-7-rehis-intermediate-food-hygiene:
Course code D620
The REHIS Intermediate Food Hygiene Course (SCQF level 7) is a recognised qualification throughout the UK.
Aimed at supervisors or managers, this qualification will enable you to manage staff who are producing food for sale, ensuring your business meets the appropriate food safety legislation.
You may wish to progress onto the REHIS Advanced Food Hygiene Course (SCQF level 8).

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/pda-renewable-energy-systems:
Course code 95H6
This Professional Development Award (PDA) in Renewable Energy Systems has been developed in partnership with the energy industry to give you the skills and expertise to contribute to the burgeoning renewable energies sector.
You will study online with support from expert staff at UHI North, West and Hebrides on the Isle of Lewis, one of the key players in the development of renewable energy systems in Scotland.
Option unit:
Please contact your local campus for more information.
You can progress to the BEng Electrical and Mechanical Engineering .

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/cpd-award-renewable-energy-technologies-scqf-level-11:
Course code F85RE
Our Renewable Energy Technologies module is your gateway to a dynamic, eco-conscious career.
With this transformative learning experience, you'll explore the full spectrum of renewable energy technologies, gaining the knowledge and skills needed to become a leader in the clean energy revolution and will unlock the secrets of harnessing nature's forces for a brighter tomorrow.
You will learn from leading experts and practitioners in the field, gaining valuable insights and mentorship.
You will get strong critical insights into the challenges, opportunities, and the critical role renewable energy plays in mitigating climate change by acquiring hands-on skills to assess and deploy renewable energy solutions, whether it's for local communities, regions, or entire nations.
You will uncover the economic aspects of renewable energy adoption, making you an asset in the energy market.
You will explore renewable energy's impact on the world, from small-scale projects to large-scale national initiatives by engaging with cutting-edge research and projects, bridging theory with practice, and contributing to the transition to a net zero society.
Choosing the renewable energy technologies module is not just an academic decision, it's a commitment to being at the forefront of the transition to a sustainable, clean energy future.
Join us to become a renewable energy pioneer, equipped to make a lasting impact on our planet's weather.
You may wish to progress from this CPD Award Sustainable Land Use (SCQF level 11) to the following courses:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/pgcert-research-methods:
Course code X200
Do you want to develop your expertise in a range of both qualitative and quantitative research and apply this to real-world issues?
If so, then the PgCert in Research Methods could be the course for you.
This fully online programme is designed for students who wish to develop their research skills and will equip successful students with excellent skills to carry out research of a professional standard.
The choices offered in the programme enable students to examine quantitative and qualitative methods in depth and also become competent practitioners in mixed methods and action research.
Research methods training is a cornerstone for success at doctoral study and successful completion of this programme will enable you to take the necessary steps towards this.
You will be encouraged to think critically about the selection of appropriate approach to your research and select the most appropriate strategy for collecting and analysing data.
For further information on this course, please see our Course Handbook .
The core module is :
*One semester will have 2 modules in it, requiring 12-16 hours study per week; one semester will have 1 module in it, requiring 6-8 hours study per week
You may be able to apply for a government Professional and Career Development Loan .
On successful completion of the PgCert Research Methods you may choose to apply your learning and skills to practical research or progress to further study.
You can use the PgCert in Research Methods to articulate onto the Master of Education programme.
The PgCert Research Methods is also a good starting point for higher degree study such as MPhil or PhD but you are advised to check this with prospective institutions and supervisors.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/cpd-award-research-supervision-scqf-level-11:
Course code X30R
The role of a research supervisor is crucial in determining the calibre of a student’s experience, as well as the quality and timeliness of completion of their project, dissertation, or thesis.
Too often, the requisite supervisory skills are accumulated through trial and error, rather than through experienced guidance towards self-evaluative supervisory practice.
This CPD Research Supervision (SCQF 11) seeks to provide you with a framework for these practices, helping you to establish the essential benchmarks of high-quality supervision to advance the interests of students, sponsoring bodies, and parent institutions alike, at undergraduate, postgraduate, and research levels.
As indicated in the QAA Code of Practice for supervising research students in higher education, institutions are being encouraged to develop their own models of good practice in research degree supervision.
Learn to describe and test such models on this valuable CPD course and become part of the new generation of supervisors who incorporate this beneficial practice in your work.
Once you have successfully completed this course, you might like to consider a career in educational training or educational management.
You may wish to progress from CPD Research Supervision (SCQF 11) to our MEd Tertiary and Higher Education .

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/pgcert-resilience-leadership-and-management:
Course code N2N6
It is acknowledged that the development of resilience within organisations is a key priority and a mainstream business function.
It is critical that organisations are equipped to build resilience into every aspect of their operations ensuring their ability to function fully, meet stakeholder needs and maintain the required level of service.
Organisations face constant challenges from both external and internal environments and need managers who are able to deal with this appropriately.
This can be achieved by understanding the importance of resilience while planning and executing suitable strategies.
This new PgCert Resilience Leadership and Management will provide those working within a resilience context a meaningful and contextual continuing professional development (CPD) award.
You will be introduced to the concepts of resilience in a UK and wider context and develop a critical understanding of legislation as well as theoretical models and tools.
You will reflect on the tensions between planning to be crisis prepared, and the realities of managing an actual crisis.
Integrated emergency management philosophy is key to managing resilience and this is explored in depth enabling you to apply this to your own context.
The programme also explores key theories of leadership and management and allows for reflection of your own practice through different perspectives.
A further key element of the programme is the module focusing on managing cyber risk.
This is designed to provide you with an understanding and deeper knowledge of how institutional cyber resilience is improved using established communications, leadership and management frameworks.
Once you have successfully completed this course you might like to consider careers as a:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/cpd-award-responsible-leadership-and-management-for-contemporary-business-scqf-level-8:
Course code 99N2
This CPD course is aimed at business managers or leaders interested in learning leadership and management through a responsible and ethical lens.
It is designed to help businesses prepare for a sustainable future in an era focused on social and environmental responsibility.
Designed in partnership with a globally focused business to develop key management skills such as project management, finance, staff motivation and organisational performance, as well as leadership and management theories, it also looks at stakeholder management, innovation, and future-readiness – all of which is underpinned by responsible and ethical practice.
The course uses your own workplace as the learning environment.
This is complemented with online tutorials and video-conference sessions accessed through the university’s virtual learning environment (VLE).
The course consists of three modules, each studied over 2 months:
The number of hours indicates the total time you should dedicate to each module, which includes time spent on online material as well as individual study and research.
This course can be studied fully online.
You will apply to, and be supported by, UHI Moray
This CPD award is designed to improve your professional practice in business and may lead to further progression within your organisation, or elsewhere.
On successful completion of the course you will achieve 60 degree credits at Level 8 (HND level) which may allow you advanced entry to a degree programme.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/cpd-award-runology-and-old-norse-scqf-level-11:
Course code V49RN
Join us in this rare opportunity to study inscriptions in runic writing and the fundamentals of Old Norse, giving us direct insight into life and society for the Vikings, Nordic peoples, and others who used these fascinating languages.
Learning the basics of Old Norse will provide you with the opportunity to further explore Norse sagas and mythology in the original language.
The subjects included will be of interest to anyone with a passion for ancient customs and beliefs, such as Norse pagan, Medieval Christian beliefs and the conversion, and runic magic as practiced in pre-modern societies.
Runology is the study of inscriptions in the runic alphabet, predominantly carved on stone, wood, bone, antler, and metal objects.
Runes were used in the Iron Age, Viking Age, Middle Ages, and into the post-medieval period by Nordic peoples, and to some extent in Continental Europe and Britain.
The carved messages range from memorials to loved ones, dedications, and messages of love and devotion, to ownership tags, business correspondence, pagan and Christian prayers, and magic spells.
We are proud to be one of very few universities in the world offering Runology.
The combination of subjects on this course can be studied purely for interest, particularly if you're keen to know more about past societies, especially the Viking Age and Nordic Middle Ages, or languages.
It's also a great opportunity for continuing professional development, for example to employees in the heritage and museum sector, tourism, or archaeology.
Once you have successfully completed this course, you might like to consider careers in the following areas:
You may wish to progress from CPD Runology and Old Norse (SCQF level 11) onto our MLitt Archaeological Studies course, to reach any of the following qualifications:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/msc-rural-advanced-practice:
Course code B704
Are you a nurse or an allied health professional?
Do you work in rural, remote and island areas?
Study this unique and specialised MSc Rural Advanced Practice, developed in partnership with NHS Education for Scotland, to become a successful Remote and Rural Advanced Practitioner.
Equip yourself to provide quality health care to remote and rural communities while innovating and improving healthcare provision.
Learn from experts at UHI’s Centre for Rural Health Sciences, focusing on clinical practice, leadership and management, education, and research, to provide a fit for purpose approach to rural care in the modern world.
On this fully online programme, develop strong supportive relationships with academic staff and supervisors using digital technology and an evidence-based approach.
Be assessed through practice-linked reflection and completion of a course-specific work-based portfolio, developed in collaboration with NHS Education for Scotland.
Your development and assessment of clinical competence is via local practice supervision.
For the academic year 2025/26, entry to this course is only available to year two  (information about an alternative year one entry route is noted below).
English language requirements
Pre-admission, all candidates must provide:
*Please note that if you are applying for Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) to the MSc Rural Advanced Practice, you will be liable to pay a flat fee of £150 to have your application assessed and processed.
This fee only applies to the MSc Rural Advanced Practice,  MSc Advanced Nurse Practitioner, and the MSc Advanced Professional Practice, and the university does not charge for RPL towards other courses.
For the academic year 2024/25, entry to this course is only available to year two.
10 course places will be funded by NHS Education for Scotland for those currently working within Remote, Rural and Island Primary and NHS Community Care and preferably with existing prescribing and advanced clinical assessment modules.
Please complete the NHS Education Scotland funding form or contact RRHEAL@nes.scot.nhs.uk for further information on funding.
Depending on your prior learning, you may need to complete additional courses to meet specific competencies in the Rural Advanced Practice module.
The maximum combined cost of these will not exceed £500.
Possible required courses include:
For more information, please contact the programme leader, Roland Preston .
On completion of this course you will be able to work as an advanced healthcare practitioner within remote and rural contexts.
The University of the Highlands and Islands provides a range of options for further study including doctoral programmes.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/cpd-award-rural-community-development-scqf-level-9:
Course code D4RC
Understanding the principles of how to sustain our communities is vitally important.
Our CPD Award Rural Community Development (SCQF level 9) is ideal for those working in, or with aspirations to work in, community development in our rural communities, allowing you to gain a unique and up-to-date short course qualification.
Designed to encourage collaboration, you will work on your modules with colleagues from across Scotland and often beyond, sharing your knowledge, ideas and experiences from your own communities, while developing your understanding of best practice in working with communities and understanding community development.
International students (including EU/EEA and Swiss nationals without settled or pre-settled status in the UK):
For students who do not normally reside in the UK, studying online from their home country, or assessed as international for fee status, the following fees apply:
A no fee increase guarantee is available for self-funding full-time and structured part-time rest of the UK and international students for continuous study for the same award, up to the permitted standard time limit for the relevant award.
This course offers a recognised academic award which would be of benefit in a range of employment areas, such as:
You may wish to progress from the CPD Award Sustainable Development (SCQF level 9) to BA (Hons) Sustainable Development .
If you have additional experience/qualifications, you may be able to progress to our MSc Sustainable Rural Development .

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/mlitt-scottish-heritage:
Course code V920
If you would like the unique opportunity to study Scottish heritage and explore the lived experiences of Scotland's communities then study with us - the only university at the heart of the Highlands of Scotland.
This fully online, interdisciplinary taught postgraduate course is delivered by world-leading experts in their fields and you will be supported throughout by this enthusiastic teaching team.
The course has been developed to attract Scottish, UK and overseas student of Scottish descent or with an interest in Scotland, and those who have businesses with a Scottish theme.
To achieve the award of MLitt Scottish Heritage you must complete a dissertation.
This course is fully online and may also be of particular interest to students based near our Perth, Shetland, or North, West and Hebrides campuses who wish to explore the culture and history of Scotland, learning about folklore, customs, music, song, literary heritage and more.
On successful completion of this course, you could consider careers in:
You may also be interested in:
Following successful completion of the MLitt, you can progress to PhD study at the University of the Highlands and Islands, and other institutions.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/pgde-secondary-english-medium:
Course code X133
The course is offered in partnership with Argyll and Bute, Comhairle nan Eilean Siar, Highland, Moray, Orkney Islands, Perth and Kinross, and Shetland Islands Councils, each working with the university through their local campus.
The course is also offered in partnership with Aberdeen City and Scottish Borders councils, with applicants based in the Borders registered through UHI Inverness.
The PGDE (Secondary) consists of 17 weeks study at the university plus 19 weeks in professional practice in schools.
The subjects listed below can be studied at the following campuses: Aberdeen City; UHI Argyll; UHI Inverness; UHI North, West and Hebrides; UHI Moray; UHI Orkney; UHI Perth; UHI Shetland; or the Scottish Borders.
The course is sometimes available at Lochgilphead (through UHI Argyll) and at Benbecula (through UHI North, West and Hebrides).
This decision is made annually and is dependent on the number of applicants in those areas.
*Not available in Aberdeen City, UHI Perth or Scottish Borders **Gaelic is offered on the Gaelic-medium Secondary pathway (code: X130) ***Not available in Aberdeen City ****Not available in Aberdeen City or Scottish Borders
You must hold an undergraduate degree and meet these subject-specific requirements .
Mathematics or Applications of Mathematics:
Applicants who have lived outside the UK for a period of six or more consecutive months in the past five years will also be required to provide criminal record checks from all relevant countries prior to enrolment on the course.
Applications for the PGDE in Secondary (English Medium) Education must be made through the main UCAS scheme in the same way as undergraduate programmes, and not through UCAS Teacher Training .
Applicants must provide details of their degree, English and Mathematics qualifications within the application, as failure to do so will lead to automatic rejection.
PGDE Taught Modules:
Building professional knowledge and understanding (20 credits) This module introduces the PGDE weekly themes, through key readings, tutor input and collaborative tasks.
The core themes have been aligned to GTCS (2021) Standard for Provisional registration.
It has a cross-sector, wider teaching profession and Scottish educational landscape perspective.
Developing Teacher Identity and Professionalism (20 credits) This module builds upon and develops the PGDE weekly themes, through individual tasks and a group seminar.
The module supports you to dig deeper into the weekly themes (and therefore aspects of the GTCS (2021) Standard for Provisional Registration) and to take ownership of these themes, in terms of the professional learning you will need to undertake to become ready for classroom practice.
The content has been designed with the programme journey and planned blocks of time in Placement in mind.
Reflection and Enquiry as Professional Learning (20 credits) This module is delivered by tutor-led workshops linked to work in dialogic triads in each Academic Partner, focussing on the development of reflection as a key skill to underpin classroom practice and enquiry, and on gathering evidence as the means to illustrate practice aligned to the SPR (GTCS, 2021).
The workshops and activities relate to the e-portfolio, academic writing and assignments.
Professional Practice (Secondary) (60 credits) For this module, you will develop your teaching practice and professional identity as a teacher across 19 weeks of school placements.
These are allocated to afford you experience of:
You will gradually increase the duration and scope of your responsibility for learning, teaching and assessment in your school placement class, culminating in classroom leadership for 0.8FTE during the final 6-week placement.
STEM bursaries may be available to some students for entry into the 2023/24 academic year - please check the website for details .
Graduates will hold provisional registration as a secondary teacher with the General Teaching Council for Scotland (GTC Scotland).
This qualifies students with Scottish and RUK fee status to apply for GTC Scotland’s induction year, the Teacher Induction Scheme (TIS), which can then allow teachers to qualify for the status of full registration (your fee status is assessed based on both nationality and residency criteria and will be stipulated in your offer letter).
I chose UHI as they offered the course part-time, providing flexibility so I could manage my family and work commitments whilst developing the skills and qualifications needed for a career in teaching.
The specialist subject sessions offered have been excellent and have provided invaluable insights into effective teaching methods.
Throughout placement tutors were available to offer any guidance or support.
The placements have provided a great insight into the school year and a deeper understanding of the progression of learning and topics covered.
It has also provided a good work-study balance where student teaching commitments are spread over an extended period.
I feel my studies have given me a solid foundation of the skills and knowledge required to begin a career in teaching.
My favourite thing about UHI is the flexibility offered and approachability and responsiveness of staff.
Katie studied the PGDE Secondary part-time at UHI Inverness.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/pgde-secondary-english-medium-part-time:
Course code X136
This PGDE Secondary (English Medium) (Part-time) programme is aimed at graduates wishing to follow a part-time route to become a Secondary teacher in Scotland.
Secondary subjects available on the part-time programme:
External scholarships and financial support may be available via the Student Awards Agency for Scotland (SAAS).

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/pgde-secondary-gaelic-medium:
The course is offered in partnership with Argyll and Bute, Comhairle na Eilean Siar, Highland Council and Perth and Kinross Council, each working with the university through their local campus.
The PGDE (Secondary) consists of 18 weeks' study at the university plus 18 weeks in professional practice in schools.
You must be a fluent Gaelic speaker prior to the start of the course and your language proficiency will be assessed at interview.
On this course you will complete the majority of your school practice in a Gaelic medium education (GME) setting, subject to Local Authority availability.
The subjects listed below can be studied at the following campuses: UHI Argyll (Oban); UHI Inverness; UHI North, West and Hebrides (Fort William and Stornoway); UHI Perth; or Sabhal Mòr Ostaig (Isle of Skye):
The course is sometimes available at Lochgilphead (through UHI Argyll) and at Benbecula (through UHI North, West and Hebrides).
*Not available in Perth
Applicants should hold a relevant degree at undergraduate level; preference will be given to those possessing a degree at honours level, though consideration will also be given to those holding ordinary degrees.
There are subject specific entry guidelines for secondary teaching stipulated by GTC Scotland in the Memorandum on Entry Requirements to Programmes of Initial Teacher Education in Scotland, 2019.
Details of these are available in our Frequently Asked Questions document - see link above.
You must be a fluent Gaelic speaker and able to read and write in Gaelic
Applicants who have lived outside the UK for a period of six or more consecutive months in the past five years will also be required to provide a criminal record check from all relevant countries prior to enrolment on the programme
Applications for the PGDE in Secondary (Gaelic Medium) Education must be made through the main UCAS scheme in the same way as undergraduate programmes .
The module is closely linked to the four blocks of Placement experience in Gaelic Medium settings, to enhance understanding of learning as a continuum.
Professional Practice (Secondary) (60 credits)
For this module students will develop their teaching practice and professional identity as a teacher in four blocks of school placements.
These are allocated nationally via the Student Placement System to afford experience of:
Students will gradually increase the duration and scope of their responsibility for learning, teaching and assessment in their school placement class, culminating in classroom leadership for 0.8FTE during the final 6-week placement.
STEM bursaries will be available to some students for entry into the 2020-21 academic year - please check the website for details .

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/msc-social-research:
Course code L302
The demand for skilled social researchers is growing rapidly across public, private, and third-sector organisations, as complex social issues continue to shape our world.
This MSc Social Research programme is designed to meet this demand by equipping you with a strong foundation in both the theory and practice of social research.
Grounded in critical and ethical approaches, the course enables you to engage confidently with a wide range of research methods and tools within the social sciences.
This flexible programme can be studied either online or on campus, allowing you to tailor your learning experience to suit your interests and career goals.
You’ll gain expertise in qualitative, quantitative, and mixed-methods approaches, and graduate ready to take on roles in policy analysis, programme evaluation, or to pursue further academic research at PhD level.
For those looking to specialise further, the MSc Social Research with Advanced Quantitative Methods (AQM) offers an additional focus on cutting-edge quantitative and computational techniques.
This pathway includes training in large-scale data analysis and advanced methods such as natural language processing, preparing you for data-intensive roles or further study involving sophisticated statistical research.
MSc Social Research / MSc Social Research with Advanced Quantitative Methods (AQM)
Core modules (60 credits – required for both pathways) You will study the following 20-credit modules:
Optional Modules (60 credits total) You will then choose optional modules to suit your interests and pathway focus.
The number and type of modules you select depends on your chosen route.
Pathway Options:
List A – optional modules (20 credits each):
List B – additional options (20 credits each):
List C – Quantitative Focused Modules for AQM Pathway (20 credits each):
Dissertation (60 credits – required for both pathways)
The MSc Social Research can be followed as part of a Scottish Graduate School of Social Sciences (SGSSS) studentship in cases where one year of study at the Masters level is included in the studentship pathway.
Click here for information on upcoming deadlines and how to apply for SGSSS studentships.
Additional costs for fieldwork may apply for the social research dissertation depending on your topic choice.
Fieldwork costs are not incurred when you choose a desk-based research topic.
Once you have successfully completed this course, you will be qualified for careers in:
You may wish to progress from MSc Social Research to the following courses:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-social-sciences:
Course code L300
How curious have you become about how society works and the ways people interact with one another in the way they do?
Have you thought about applying this curiosity at degree level with a BA (Hons) Social Sciences?
You will study society, its people and institutions, giving you an insight into the everyday life of our communities and workplaces.
You will be able to study and debate with fellow learners and subject specialists, on many of the significant issues that affect our lives.
You will focus on sociology, politics and psychology and develop transferable skills in problem solving, group working and communication, all of which are highly valued by employers.
There is strong emphasis on research methods that will give you the skills necessary to carry out independent research for your future career, including your dissertation in the fourth year.
There are also other options available to you including criminology, history, literature, philosophy and theology.
Plus one politics module:
One sociology module:
One Psychology module:
You will also choose two option module from our range of humanities subjects.
Plus two modules from your first discipline and two modules from your second, from the following options:
Psychology
Plus two modules from your first discipline and two from your second discipline:
Many graduates from the BA (Hons) Social Science degree go on to further study in social sciences.
You might also like to consider careers in:
Social sciences is an area I have always been interested in and, speaking to friends from other universities, I feel my experience has been unique here!
I really enjoy the modern style of lecturing where the materials are provided to you in advance and instead of a lecture we have a collaborative discussion.
It gives us the chance to argue points with peers, and I feel that helps students engage more in the classroom.
Kirsty studied the BA (Hons) Social Sciences at UHI Perth.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnc-social-sciences:
Course code 143L
The Social Sciences HNC will help you to find answers to the bigger questions in our society.
This course is designed to help you see the world differently.
We are all exposed to so much information in our daily lives that it can be difficult to assess what is real and what is ‘fake’: HNC Social Sciences is the perfect course for students who want to develop the skills to search for the truth.
The course is designed to help you investigate and examine the areas of our lives that we can and cannot control: much of our social existence is influenced by forces that we do not know or understand, so this course helps you explore those factors.
You will be supported to develop your critical thinking and your complex problem solving abilities by looking for creative solutions to social, political and psychological problems.
You will learn how topics cross over between all of your subjects, for example, the concept of power – you will explore this from a socio-political perspective but also an historical, a criminological and a psychological perspective; similarly, the concept of conformity and how this weaves into our everyday social, political and psychological behaviours.
Your HNC Social Sciences qualification will open up a number of career opportunities in the public, private and voluntary sectors.
The skills you develop will prepare you for jobs that require employees to be creative; critical; complex problem solvers; mature; and objective.
Achievement of the HNC will help you in a range of careers.
The Campaign for Social Science employability report suggests that most graduates will pursue careers in the professional services such as:
I love the friendliness of all the staff, the mix of students that you meet online from all over Scotland, and the accessibility of the mode of study.
I am just grateful for the experience and the chance to better myself academically.
My personal academic tutor has been so supportive, given me a few pep talks and encouraged me to believe in my abilities.
Lisa studied the HNC Social Sciences at UHI Shetland.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnd-social-sciences:
Course code 243L
If you're curious about how the world works and have an interest in areas like history, criminal justice, sociology, politics, or psychology, our HND Social Sciences is the ideal choice for you.
Taught by a team of experts, this course dives into the study of people and society, helping you understand how Scotland and the UK have developed into what they are today.
You'll explore a range of subjects while also gaining valuable, transferable skills that are essential for the workplace or further study.
Throughout the course, you'll learn to handle complex information, interpret statistics, and develop your research, analytical, and communication skills.
You’ll also enhance your critical thinking skills around social and cultural issues, equipping you to navigate real-world challenges, whether you're considering pursuing a degree or exploring a new career path.
For entry to year 1, HNC Social Sciences :
Year 1 of this course is HNC Social Sciences .
Most of the core texts will be available via UHI E:books, but if you wish to buy your own copies this will cost approximately £100.
You may wish to progress from HND Social Science to year 3 of the following courses:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnc-social-services:
Course code 114L
The HNC Social Services is a nationally recognised qualification and a valued award for people who want to work in a variety of social service settings, supporting individuals with varying needs.
You will gain an understanding of the values and principles of social services and learn how to integrate those values with necessary skills and knowledge, including the importance of anti-discriminatory practice in line with the National Care Standards and Scottish Social Services Council Codes of Practice.
Successful completion of the award will enable you to gain access to employment within a social service setting.
NC level 6 Group Award that includes Higher Care or a similar Higher.
Mandatory Units are:
You must also choose one optional unit from:
You will learn through a combination of face-to-face lectures and online study via the university’s virtual learning environment (VLE).
The HNC Social Services qualification will improve your career prospects in a range of social service settings.
You will be able to progress onto a variety of degree courses following successful interview, usually starting at year one, such as;
I started studying the Level 5 Pathway to Health and Social Care, which led to the NC Health and Social Care, and it was the level of support which made me want to stay and progress onto the HNC Social Services.
The support received from all staff and lecturers at UHI has honestly been amazing!
They all go above and beyond.
My favourite thing about UHI is the support from all staff and my fellow classmates.
Everyone genuinely cares about each other and it’s such a supportive atmosphere.
Jacob graduated from the HNC in Social Services at UHI Moray.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/svq-social-services-children-and-young-people-scqf-level-9:
Course code 9L52
This SVQ Social Services (Children and Young People) SCQF Level 9 award is required by managers of care settings as a second qualification for registration with the Scottish Social Services Council, or for managers who do not already possess a health and social care qualification.
This includes care settings such as care homes, residential care or care at home services for children and young people.
Mandatory subjects include:
You will also study four optional units.
The SVQ will be studied by students as part of ongoing continuing professional development (CPD) requirements for managers.
Following successful completion of the SVQ, you may wish to consider applying to one of the university degree programmes, such as BA (Hons) Child and Youth Studies .

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/svq-social-services-and-healthcare-scqf-level-9:
Course code 9L51
The SVQ Social Services and Healthcare SCQF Level 9 is mandatory for those employed in deputy and/or management positions within the adult care sector.
It is a requirement of the Scottish Social Services Council that people involved in adult care at a senior level have achieved, or are working towards, this qualification.
Mandatory subjects include:
This SCQF Level 9 qualification meets SSSC registration requirements for managers.
Following successful completion of the SVQ, you may wish to consider applying to a relevant degree programme offered by the university, such as BA (Hons) Health and Social Studies .

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/pda-sociology-scqf-level-7:
Course code 90L3
As a discipline, Sociology has emerged from a historical context of social change.
Studying sociology helps you think critically about social issues and encourages you to question common beliefs, increasing your understanding of different cultures, races, and social backgrounds, and fostering empathy and appreciation for diversity.
This awareness prepares you to engage with important societal challenges as an informed and active citizen.
Join this Sociology PDA at SCQF level 7 , with options to study either or both of our dedicated modules, and consider society, from its origin to its development, and how it’s explained by competing perspectives.
Develop your understanding, on academic and practical levels, of key social concepts such as socialisation and social order, as you learn to question and explore why society is organised in the ways that it is.
Gain the communication and people skills that allow you to connect with a wider variety of individuals and navigate complex social situations, improving your opportunities to work in careers which require an understanding of the complex relationship between the individual and society, including public service, criminal justice, health, business, and advertising.
You may wish to progress from  PDA Sociology to the following courses

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-sociology-and-criminology:
Course code L30C
Are you observing the changing world around you and wondering about the impact it's having on society and human behaviour?
If you are interested in studying crime and society, then the BA (Hons) Sociology and Criminology degree will give you a solid grounding in both disciplines.
The course offers students the opportunity to study a wide range of sociological and criminological themes and topics across a broad sweep of modules, emphasising the value of empirical and theoretical approaches.
This is achieved by exploring the changing nature of the social world and of crime, and addressing the social, political, historical and individual forces behind such changes.
The context for both subjects is local, national and global perspectives, looking at their similarities and differences.
There is strong emphasis on research methods which will give you the skills necessary to carry out independent research for your future career, including your dissertation in the fourth year.
In the first and second years, you will follow a traditional broad approach to the study of sociology and criminology.
In years three and four, you will examine in-depth particular areas of sociology and criminology, allowing you to study specific topics and themes which reflect staff research specialisms (including cybercrime and the networked society).
The degree also offers the opportunity to study other Humanities subjects such as history, literature, archaeology, politics, and theology.
Core modules are
You will also choose one option module from our range of humanities subjects
In the fourth year you will undertake a dissertation in either sociology or criminology.
On successful completion of this degree, you will have a wide range of employment opportunities in the commercial, statutory and voluntary sectors including:
Alternatively, you may wish to progress from BA (Hons) Sociology and Criminology to one of the following courses:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-sociology-and-politics:
Course code L30P
If you are interested in the social and political world, the BA (Hons) Sociology and Politics gives you the opportunity to study a range of subjects to increase your knowledge of people, politics and society.
You will study a range of themes, methods and subjects, investigating important social and political issues such as poverty, crime, terror and freedom.
You will also choose two option modules from our range of humanities subjects.
Plus two additional politics modules from the following:
You will complete a dissertation in sociology or politics.
Once you have successfully completed your BA (Hons) Sociology and Politics course there are a variety of careers you might like to consider.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-sociology-and-theology:
Course code L30T
If you are interested in studying society and theology, then the BA (Hons) Sociology and Theology degree will give you a solid grounding in both disciplines, as well as the opportunity to combine two subjects which complement your interests or career goals.
The course offers you the opportunity to study a wide range of themes and topics, across a broad sweep of modules, emphasising the value of empirical and theoretical approaches.
This is achieved by studying the development, structure, and functioning of human society, as well as the impact of the main disciplines of Christian theology.
In the first and second years, you will follow a traditional broad approach to the study of sociology and theology.
In years three and four, you will examine, in-depth, particular areas of sociology and theology, allowing you to study specific topics and themes which reflect staff research specialisms.
You will complete a dissertation in sociology or theology.
Alternatively, you may wish to progress from BA (Hons) Sociology and Theology to one of the following courses:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnc-soft-tissue-therapy:
Course code 161B
The HNC Soft Tissue Therapy has been designed for those who want to perform hands-on treatments with people who participate in sport.
The treatment could be designed to help an athlete optimise their performance, or help aid recovery from injury that has been diagnosed by an appropriate medical professional.
Achievement of the award will allow you to work with any athlete from recreational through to elite level performers.
It will also allow you to work within a sports medicine team, beside other professionals, such as: sports medicine doctors; physiotherapists; general, strength and conditioning coaches and nutritionists; or independently in a clinic-type environment.
You will also have the opportunity to progress on to the second year of the HND Sports Therapy.
*You will be required to organise some of your own clients in order to practise sports massage.
You will be invited for a group and/or individual interview where you will get the opportunity to find out more about the course and tell us why you are interested in this subject area.
You will learn through a combination of face-to-face lectures, tutorials and practical sessions on campus and in the community.
Additional costs include:
On successful completion of course you may gain employment as a soft tissue therapist, opportunities include:
You may be able to progress to the second year of the HND Sports Therapy or BSc (Hons) Integrative Healthcare .
This sports therapy course was exactly what I wanted to do.
I am a very hands-on learner, so this course was very much suited to that.
When we were more online based, the tutors and lecturers were always happy to help in any way they could.
The UHI in-house clinic that is set up for sports therapy, and that is a great way to get experience as a student.
I go climbing at the UHI Perth climbing wall and really enjoy going to the social badminton.
My favourite thing about learning here has been the friends I’ve made and how kind, friendly and helpful everyone is.
It has been a really great 4 years here!
Kyla is studying sports therapy at UHI Perth.
I am always happy with the support that I have received from my lectures, there is always clear communication.
When I struggle with something, the lecturers take the time to make sure I understand it before I leave the classroom.
The staff are all friendly, approachable and knowledgeable.
I have practiced in the in-house sports clinic.
I learn a lot while working on real like clients, helping me to enhance my skill set for the future.
I also regularly go the climbing wall, I love climbing and am so happy we have such good facilities.
UHI is a positive and fun environment to learn in!
Veronika is studying sports therapy at UHI Perth.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnc-sound-production:
Course code 316W
Influence the music and sounds we listen to on a daily basis by pursuing a career in sound production.
Choose to pursue paths in studio recording and production, live sound and design, or multimedia application, including digital media, gaming, and web sounds.
Learn audio skills, digital audio workstations, sound production, recording and mixing, skills for business, sound for live events, and creative music re-mixing.
This course forms the first year of our BA (Hons) Audio Engineering.
Options may include:
Through the Cadman Award (Perth), there is a memorial scholarship fund of £500 available for one student applicant, available upon review of the submission of a scholarship application proposal.
Once you successfully complete this course you can engineer and produce music and design sound for television, film and radio; engineer conferences, concerts and other live events; or pursue multimedia careers in web design, animation, gaming and other digital media.
You can progress to the BSc (Hons) Audio Engineering course at UHI Perth .
You may also be able to progress to our BA (Hons) Contemporary Film Making in the Highlands and Islands , or our BA (Hons) Applied Music .

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/med-specialist-qualification-in-headship:
Course code X360
The MEd Specialist Qualification in Headship is a three-year, part-time online programme for aspiring school leaders.
The programme connects directly with Local Authority and national leadership programmes.
Structured as a series of discrete Postgraduate Certificates (PgCerts), the programme aligns to the career progression envisaged in the GTCS (2021) Professional Standards for Leadership and Management.
The first PgCert focuses on Middle Leadership, the second PgCert offers the national Into Headship programme, and the third PgCert offers the national In Headship programme for those in post as a Headteacher.
The award of MEd Specialist Qualification in Headship can be achieved after successful completion of all three PgCerts.
The programme utilises a collaborative approach to online learning, with activities designed to develop teacher agency, support professional dialogue, and develop skills in strategic leadership.
You will choose the focus of your work for each module to fit with your professional role and responsibilities, whilst the collaborative learning activities support you and your fellow participants to work together on leadership practice and develop creative responses to leading change.
Next available start dates:
*Into Headship / In Headship - September 2025 links are now closed - September 2026 apply links will open in September 2025 - you should only use the September apply link when:
*Each PgCert of this MEd sits as a standalone study pathway, offering different exit and subsequent entry points.
Into Headship and In Headship require Local Authority approval and are aligned to professional experience and employment in a promoted role.
Completing the three PgCerts may be experienced as a non-linear progression, and the overall time to complete may be extended by periods of 'dormancy' in between, depending on your initial entry point and professional responsibilities.
The national programme for Into Headship includes modules led by Education Scotland, additional to the PgCert Into Headship at each university, which must be completed by April of the following year, to be awarded the GTCS (2021) Standard for Headship.
This course is not available to students domiciled outside of the UK or for international students requiring Student Route visa sponsorship to study in the UK.
Travel and accommodation costs for national conferences held for the Into Headship programme and the In Headship programme are met by nominating employers.
While it is expected that the PgCert Into Headship and PgCert In Headship will continue to be funded by the Scottish Government, the PgCert Middle Leadership will not be.
You should be prepared to pay these module fees and/or seek financial assistance from your employer.
On successful completion of the PGCert Into Headship and national programme led by Education Scotland, you will be qualified to be appointed as a Head Teacher in Scotland.
Upon successful completion of this course, you may wish to study an EdD or a PhD in Education.
A Doctor of Education (EdD) is a professional degree designed for practitioners pursuing educational leadership roles.
A PhD in Education, on the other hand, is designed to prepare graduates for research and teaching roles.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/bsc-hons-sport-and-fitness:
Course code C600
The BSc (Hons) Sport and Fitness is designed to be a diverse sport and fitness qualification with a focus on practical application of skills that enables you to put theory into practice.
This course will provide scientific underpinning knowledge and technical skills in this specialist field, as well as a solid formation for a career in the sport and fitness industry.
Year 2 of the course is either:
For DipHE, you will study the following core modules:
Plus two option modules, which may include:
*available at Inverness and Perth **available at Inverness and Moray
You will also choose one further module from the following:
Plus three option modules which may include:
You will choose two of the following core modules:
Plus two option modules from the following:
Years 3 and 4
It is highly recommended that you invest in your own career development by making an allowance for the following:
Once you have successfully completed this course, you might like to consider careers as:
There are opportunities in local authorities, national governing bodies (NGBs), small businesses, private sector, self-employment and voluntary organisations.
You may wish to progress from this BSc (Hons) Sport and Fitness to postgraduate studies such as:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnc-sports-coaching-and-development:
Course code 06XC
Ready to turn your passion for sport or adventure into a rewarding career?
Our HNC Sports Coaching and Development course is the perfect starting point, whether you're already working in the sports or adventure sector or looking to break into it for the first time.
This dynamic course gives you a solid foundation in both the theory and practice of sports coaching, with the flexibility to focus on indoor sports or outdoor adventurous activities.
You’ll gain real insight into what it takes to succeed in a fast-paced, exciting industry, while building the skills and confidence you need to coach others.
Even better, this HNC offers a clear Adventure Sports Coaching pathway, allowing you to progress from Level 5 right through to Level 10, so whether you're coaching in the gym or out in the wild, this is your launchpad for a thriving, long-term career in sport and adventure.
You can also choose to study optional modules which may include:
There may be additional costs for industry qualifications and sports clothing.
Further to successful completion of the HNC Sports Coaching and Development, you may wish to pursue employment opportunities in a range of posts in sports centres, coaching or outdoor adventure.
You can progress to the HND Sports Coaching and Development, BSc (Hons) Sport and Fitness or BA (Hons) Sports Management .

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnd-sports-coaching-and-development:
Course code CX61
Take your coaching skills to the next level and turn your passion into a profession.
Our HND in Sports Coaching and Development builds on your existing knowledge and pushes you further, combining in-depth theory with hands-on practice across indoor sports and outdoor adventurous activities.
Whether you're already active in the sports or adventure sector, or you're ready to launch a long-term career in this exciting field, this course offers the challenge and opportunity you’re looking for.
You’ll explore the real-world issues facing coaches today, while sharpening your practical expertise and developing the leadership skills employers demand.
Looking to specialise in adventure sports?
This HND sits firmly within a dedicated Adventure Sports Coaching pathway, giving you the opportunity to progress seamlessly from Level 5 through to Level 10.
If you're serious about sport and where it can take you, this is where your journey steps up a gear.
Year 1 of this course is HNC Sports Coaching and Development .
You can also choose to study optional modules from the following list (if not previously undertaken during HNC studies):
Option units available may change and are variable depending on study location, for more information contact your chosen campus .
Employment in a range of posts in sports centres, coaching and outdoor adventure, or as a freelance fitness instructor.
On successful completion of this course you may progress to the BA (Hons) Sports Management .

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-sports-management:
Course code C6N2
The BA (Hons) Sports Management degree is designed for those seeking a broad-based management qualification that will introduce you to all aspects of today's modern sporting business.
This course will equip you with the skills you will need for a career in sports management, including marketing, human resources, business law and IT.
For 2025/26, entry to this course is only available into year 3:
For 25/26, entry to this course is only available into year 3.
You will complete a dissertation and study modules in:
Successful completion of the BA (Hons) Sports Management will provide you with excellent career prospects.
This award enables you to develop knowledge and skills highly valued by employers, leading to roles in public, private and voluntary organisations such as:
You will also have the potential to become local entrepreneurs with business start-ups in the sport and fitness sectors.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnd-sports-therapy:
Course code 036C
The HND Sports Therapy builds on the HNC Soft Tissue Therapy and provides you with an industry recognised qualification, and the knowledge and skills necessary to work as a sports therapist.
It also prepares you to progress onto a degree in sports therapy or another higher education award in a related field.
If you are interested in a career that involves working with people in the sports industry in the maintenance or improvement of their sporting performance and treating and rehabilitating injuries that affect their output, then this is the course for you.
Completion of this award may allow you to gain employment in sports clubs, either working independently or with a team of other professionals (eg physiotherapists, coaches, strength and conditioning specialists, or nutritionists).
Additionally, you could seek work in single or multi-disciplinary clinics providing clinical sports massage treatments.
On successful completion of course you may gain employment as a sports therapist, opportunities include:
You may be able to progress to the third year of the BSc (Hons) Sports Therapy and Rehabilitation or BSc (Hons) Integrative Healthcare .

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/bsc-hons-sports-therapy-and-rehabilitation:
Course code C630
If you are interested in a career that involves working with people in the sports industry, in the maintenance or improvement of their sporting performance, then BSc (Hons) Sports Therapy and Rehabilitation is the course for you.
There are a growing range of employment opportunities for people who want to work in sports therapy.
There is also increasing appreciation that people who are involved in sport – whether at professional, amateur or recreational level – need appropriate and specific support to avoid injury, treat injury and plan and provide appropriate post-injury rehabilitation.
This course combines both the scientific knowledge and practical skills necessary to become an accomplished sports therapist.
You will be taught by our expert team of sports therapy and rehabilitation professionals and have access to excellent on-campus sports facilities.
In addition, work placement opportunities will enable you to relate your acquired theoretical knowledge to real-life practices.
You may be invited for a group and/or individual interview where you will get the opportunity to find out more about the course and tell us why you are interested in this subject area.
Year one of the course is the HNC Soft Tissue Therapy
Year two of the course is HND Sports Therapy
You will study the following core modules:
You will also choose one optional module which may include:
You must also complete a dissertation (sport).
Years 1 and 2 of this course can be studied at UHI Inverness and UHI Moray - please see individual pages for more information:
On successful completion of BSc (Hons) Sports Therapy and Rehabilitation you may pursue a career in areas such as:
On successful completion of BSc (Hons) Sports Therapy and Rehabilitation you may wish to pursue further postgraduate studies.
Kyla is studying BSc (Hons) Sports Therapy and Rehabilitation at UHI Perth.
Veronika is studying BSc (Hons) Sports Therapy and Rehabilitation at UHI Perth.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/msc-sustainability-and-rural-regeneration:
Course code 93N2
Are you passionate about achieving sustainability in rural regions?
Do you want to learn the theory, policy, and practice of sustainable regeneration to more fully understand how you can make a real difference?
Whether you’re already working in this field or want to explore your growing interest in the future of rural areas, this unique online course is ideal for your needs.
In the words of one of our recent graduates, Sean Meehan: “I struggled to name what it was that I wanted to study…I was aiming to explore areas that I had found to overlap in the real world but are often studied in isolation: tourism, conservation, sustainable agriculture, resilient communities, culture…then I stumbled across the module list of the MSc Sustainability and Rural Regeneration, and it hit all the points I was looking for.
The course is well structured, with a cohesive central message; it allows lots of freedom to pursue your own interests.”
Collaborate with those driving real world solutions as you learn about social, economic, and environmental theories and issues in the rural context, as well as developing key research and policy analysis skills in the interdisciplinary field of sustainability.
Explore vital sustainability skills such as how to work well with communities, understand geographic information system (GIS) mapping, and undertake environmental impact assessments, as well as topics such as extreme weather, economics of community wealth building, greenhouse gas auditing, and carbon footprinting.
Forge your own path in the drive to net zero in remote and rural regions and let us prepare you for a successful career in this essential field.
Option modules, from which you will choose three, may include the following (subject to availability):
To achieve the award of MSc Sustainability and Rural Regeneration you must complete a research dissertation.
The number of hours per week indicates the total number of hours you should dedicate to the course, which includes time spent in studying the learning resources provided and your own time spent on individual study and research.
On successful completion of the course, you will be equipped to take up management positions, both at home and abroad, in:
You may wish to progress from this MSc Sustainability and Rural Regeneration to pursue a PhD or further MRes studies.
I wanted to open the door to working in community development and this course brought together two of my passions: communities and the natural world.
The course content is on the pulse of current research and policy, I have gained a deep understanding of how key rural land-use is to tackle the twin emergencies of climate change and biodiversity loss, while sustaining thriving local communities.
The flexible format has made it possible to fit in studying, and on the discussion boards you can reflect on the content with fellow students, expanding learning and providing opportunity to test your understanding of the topics.
It really is an exceptional opportunity.
This course has given me the confidence to realise that I can make significant contribution to community development, it has widened my horizons, and given me a clearer national and global context for my work.
I would highly recommend it.
Beth studied the MSc Sustainability and Rural Regeneration at UHI North, West and Hebrides.
I chose this course as I thought the content was broad, but with the flexibility to cover a lot of bases.
Some modules crossed over with other subjects, offering a diverse range of perspectives and conversations between students.
There was a lot of complementary crossover between my studies and my work, providing me with knowledge and information useful to my work, while helping to ground my studies in the real-world practicalities.
The flexibility of online learning allowed me to tailor my study schedule to suit my needs.
The tutors were helpful throughout and very supportive for a diverse range of learning styles and schedules.
Neil studied the MSc Sustainability and Rural Regeneration at UHI North, West and Hebrides.
I am passionate about helping rural and island communities thrive through the transition to a more sustainable future; it's a pleasure to work with like-minded colleagues and students on this course, developing knowledge and skills, sharing ideas, and helping unlock the potential of our land, people, and resources.
Dr Eilidh MacPhail, Associate Professor of Sustainable Rural and Island Development is the Programme Leader for the MSc Sustainability and Rural Regeneration.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/cpd-award-sustainable-aquaculture-management-scqf-level-8:
Course code 96D4
This CPD award in Sustainable Aquaculture Management enables you, as an existing aquaculture industry professional, to development management skills in the aquaculture industry, promote best practice, and produce in a sustainable manner.
Learn to apply skills in sustainable practice and quality assurance via our updated modules and revamped assessment topics, as you navigate the demands of meeting industry targets on net zero and climate change.
You will choose three of the following modules:
Completion of this course is suitable for professional development if you are already employed in the aquaculture industry.
You may also wish to pursue careers in:
You may be able to pursue further studies at Higher PDA or HND level, or progress onto courses such as:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/bsc-hons-sustainable-architectural-studies:
Course code K131
Are you passionate about architecture and the technology that surrounds design in the built environment?
If so, our innovative BSc (Hons) Sustainable Architectural Studies is the course for you.
Gain the theoretical and project-based skills required within a modern architectural practice, including an excellent understanding of managing projects from conception through to completion.
Combine simulated design office practice, site visits and regular project work to ensure that you gain the skills demanded by the architectural industry, from building information modelling to technical design.
Work with professionally qualified tutors to develop essential knowledge, understanding and proficiency that will make you highly employable as an architectural technologist.
Graduate with an excellent understanding of the design and technical process of projects, and the ability to enter industry as an effective contributor to an architectural practice from day one, as reflected in the positive feedback from our employer partners who regularly recruit from our programme.
Join this tailor-made degree and set yourself up for success in this challenging and stimulating field.
Direct entry to year two may be possible with:
From September 2025, direct entry to year three may be possible with:
You will study five core modules, which may include:
You will also pick one option module from the following three choices:
*40 credit module (all other modules are 20 credit)
Key S1: Semester 1 S2: Semester 2 SC: Semester Continuous (held across both semesters)
Once you have successfully completed your course, you might like to consider a career as a graduate architectural technologist within:
You may wish to progress from Bsc (Hons) Sustainable Architectural Studies to an MRes Sustainable Landscapes and Technology in the Built Environment .

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/cpd-award-sustainable-deer-management-scqf-level-11:
Course code SUSTDM
This online postgraduate CPD award in Sustainable Deer Management is aimed at those working in the land management sector (e.g.
estate management, forestry, agriculture, ecological consultancy) and in conservation organisations.
It covers both practical and policy aspects of deer management and is also useful for those working in government agencies with remits covering land use and environmental issues.
The module reflects the growing demand for ‘sustainable’ deer management in Scotland, uniting both the sporting elements and environmental or conservation-based approaches.
For those already practising deer management, the module offers valuable academic recognition that can enhance employment opportunities.
It provides an in-depth understanding of the role of stakeholders in deer management and the importance of collaborative working.
The learning outcomes can be put into practice by professionals working in practical deer management or conservation and by those working in policy development.
This module is delivered fully online and will benefit those seeking a holistic and up-to-date understanding of deer management including:
The module learning outcomes are:
The module gives valuable academic recognition that can enhance employment opportunities.
Professionals working in practical deer management or conservation and those in policy development can use the learning outcomes to develop their own working practices.
This module is part of the MSc Sustainable Mountain Development and, after successful completion of the CPD award, you may want to consider building to the postgraduate certificate, postgraduate diploma or the full masters award.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-sustainable-development:
Course code D448
The world is facing the prospect of a climate emergency, with decision-makers grappling with how to understand and respond to the pressures on our environment and society.
Sustainable Development, from the local to the global, is essential if society is to tackle the challenges faced.
The necessary changes will impact on every facet of society, culture and the economy; this is a critical moment to study sustainability.
On this BA (Hons) Sustainable Development degree you will learn the facts about climate change, explore the UN Sustainable Development Goals, and consider potential and emerging solutions such as the Green New Deals, the concept of ‘degrowth’ and the transition to wellbeing economies, leaving you ideally placed to influence, or indeed become, one of the decision-makers.
This degree also focuses on how communities can shape this more sustainable form of development, particularly rural communities.
Most of our teaching team are located in the Western Isles, where 75% of people live on community-owned land, which sets the context for you to study community-based development, land reform, community empowerment and community energy projects, which can all contribute to a more sustainable future.
To develop a critical understanding of the three pillars of sustainability (social, environmental, economic), you will study modules drawn from a range of social science disciplines, such as: geography; economics; politics; sociology; and environmental studies, as well as developing practical skills in research and working with communities.
The course takes a critical approach to examining the historical context to development whilst looking firmly to the future, drawing examples of change in action from around the globe.
You will benefit from collaborative discussions and activities with colleagues from a range of diverse backgrounds and experiences, facilitated by tutors with many years of experience in delivering online education.
You will study the following modules*:
*You may elect to choose one different module per academic year.
You will study the following modules*: Semester 1
You must also complete a sustainable development dissertation.
*You may elect to choose one different module per academic year
Number of hours per week indicates the total number of hours you should dedicate to the course, which includes time spent in lectures, tutorials and your own time spent on individual study and research.
Once you have successfully completed the BA (Hons) Sustainable Development course, you might like to consider careers in:
Alternatively, you may wish to progress from BA (Hons) Sustainable Development to one of the following courses:
If you are considering studying at UHI, I would say don’t hesitate!
The course is interesting and well-structured, the support from lecturers is excellent and there are many varied opportunities to work with other students while studying online.
The best part about being in the Highlands is that it is a fantastic place to live – either in the city or rurally.
It really does have the best of both worlds!
Louise studied the BSc (Hons) Sustainable Development at UHI North, West and Hebrides.
Sustainable Development was obvious choice, I loved anything to do with sustainability and I wanted to eventually help create a brighter future through the power of sustainable development.
I chose UHI because it was local, I knew the faces who were supporting me at the learning centre from growing up and working there, making it an easy transition.
I work as a Junior Environmental Consultant for a company based within UHI North, West and Hebrides.
This was all thanks to the BA Sustainable Development course which had advertised the position and I was enjoying the course so much that I decided to apply!
The job is now improving my academic work as I have learnt skills in GIS (Mapping software) and in Environmental Impact Assessments (EIA) which are modules within this course.
Both the job and the course go hand in hand and I am excited about my learning as a result.
If you are considering studying with UHI I would highly recommend it!
It has transformed my life, opened my eyes to real world issues that needs to be addressed and that we are the only ones who can do that!
Kayley is studying the BA (Hons) Sustainable Development at UHI North, West and Hebrides.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/cpd-award-sustainable-development-scqf-level-7:
Course code D4SU
Do you want to learn about current thinking on sustainable development, climate change, economics and globalisation, and the role they all play when planning for present and future development needs?
If your answer is yes, then this CPD Award Sustainable Development (SCQF level 7) is the course for you.
With fellow students from across Scotland and beyond, you will discuss the climate emergency, the need to move to a wellbeing economy, and the solutions required to tackle the issues our communities and the wider world are facing.
Rural and urban community activists, graduates, practitioners, and professionals, with a role in implementing sustainable development in our communities, can:
You may wish to progress from the CPD Award Sustainable Development (SCQF level 7) to the following courses:
If you have additional experience/qualifications, you may be able to progress to our MSc Sustainability and Rural Regeneration .

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-sustainable-development-and-archaeology:
Course code D44A
BA (Hons) Sustainable Development and Archaeology presents you with situations from local to global and from past to present.
Inevitable changes to our immediate future will impact on every facet of society, culture and the economy: this is a critical moment to study sustainability.
On this course, you will learn the facts about climate change, explore the UN Sustainable Development Goals, and consider potential and emerging solutions such as the Green New Deals, the concept of ‘degrowth’ and the transition to wellbeing economies.
By looking at long-term perspectives, you will explore how past cultures have adapted to changing climates, successfully and otherwise, and you will be ideally placed to influence or become one of the decision-makers guiding the future of our society.
The degree also focuses on how communities can shape more sustainable forms of development, particularly in rural settings.
Most of the teaching team are located in the Western Isles or Northern Isles, where communities are leading the way in community-based development, land reform, community empowerment and community energy projects, which can all contribute to this more sustainable future.
To develop a critical understanding of the three pillars of sustainability (social, environmental, economic), you can study modules drawn from a range of social science and humanities disciplines, including geography, economics, politics, sociology, and environmental studies, as well as developing practical skills in fieldwork, research and working with communities.
The modules take a critical approach to examining the historical context to development, whilst looking firmly to the future, drawing examples of change in action from around the globe.
Delivered entirely online and available to study from anywhere in the world, you will benefit from collaborative discussions and activities with colleagues from a range of diverse backgrounds and experiences, facilitated by tutors with many years of experience in delivering online education.
You will study the following modules: Sustainable Development
Plus at least one of the following:
You will also choose two further option modules from archaeology, sustainable development, or our range of humanities subjects.
Plus two of the following modules: Archaeology
You will normally study the following modules:
Sustainable Development
Three of the following modules:
You will complete a double credit dissertation in either Sustainable Development or Archaeology (S1 and S2).
This course includes an option to participate in archaeological fieldwork, attend student society residential trips and an optional international field trip to Iceland.
Once you have successfully completed your BA (Hons) Sustainable Development with Archaeology course, you might like to consider careers in:
Alternatively, you may wish to progress from BA (Hons) Sustainable Development and Archaeology to one of the following courses:
Louise studied Sustainable development at UHI North, West and Hebrides.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-sustainable-development-and-criminology:
Course code D44C
Core to this BA (Hons) Sustainable Development and Criminology programme are the development of clear and confident research methods and analysis skills.
You will develop a critical understanding of the local, national and international contexts of crime, offenders, victimisation and responses to crime (including cybercrime).
You will also expand your knowledge and critical understanding of the three pillars of sustainability (social, environmental, economic), learn the facts about climate change, explore the UN Sustainable Development Goals, and consider potential and emerging solutions such as the Green New Deals, the concept of ‘degrowth’ and the transition to wellbeing economies, leaving you ideally placed to influence, or indeed become, one of the decision-makers.
You will study the following modules: Sustainable development
You will usually study the following modules: Sustainable development
You will also choose three of the following modules: Sustainable development
You will complete a dissertation in either Sustainable Development or Criminology.
Sustainable development
Once you have successfully completed your BA (Hons) Sustainable Development and Criminology course, you might like to consider careers in:
Alternatively, you may wish to progress from BA (Hons) Sustainable Development and Criminology to one of the following courses:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-sustainable-development-and-history:
Course code D44H
If you want to explore the past, present and future of our changing world, this BA (Hons) Sustainable Development and History is the course for you.
Sustainable Development, from the local to the global, is essential if society is to tackle the challenges we currently face.
With the prospect of a global climate emergency, decision-makers are grappling with understanding and responding to the corresponding pressures on our environment and society.
The necessary changes will impact on every facet of society, culture and the economy, making this a critical moment to study sustainability.
History involves the study of the past to create a better understanding of the present; this course will allow you to investigate the cultural, political, social and economic links between the Highlands and Islands, Scotland and the northern European and northern Atlantic regions.
You will develop a critical understanding of the three pillars of sustainability (social, environmental, economic), learn the facts about climate change, explore the UN Sustainable Development Goals, and consider potential and emerging solutions such as the Green New Deals, the concept of ‘degrowth’ and the transition to wellbeing economies.
You will also be introduced to the general study of history, from the medieval to the modern period, before examining, in-depth, particular topics, places, periods and themes which utilise the research specialisms of your teaching team.
Through the combination of both subjects, you will consider the role of people and communities and how they shape their surroundings.
Plus the following core skills module: History
You will also study a further five modules from those listed below, ensuring a balance of three History and three Sustainable Development modules in total.
Sustainable Development Option modules may include:
History Option modules may include:
Students wishing to specialise in Scottish History at Level 10 and exit with a BA (Hons) Sustainable Development and Scottish History are advised to take at least one Scottish history module, plus undertake a Scottish topic for their Public History project, or two Scottish history options.
You will complete a dissertation in either Sustainable Development or History.
Sustainable Development Modules may include:
History Modules may include:
If you wish to exit with a BA (Hons) Sustainable Development and Scottish History, you must undertake a Scottish history dissertation plus one further Scottish history or history module OR, if you are undertaking a Geography dissertation, two of the three History modules must be in Scottish history topics.
Once you have successfully completed your BA (Hons) Sustainable Development and History course, you might like to consider careers in:
Alternatively, you may wish to progress from BA (Hons) Sustainable Development and History to one of the following courses:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-sustainable-development-and-literature:
Course code D44L
On this BA (Hons) Sustainable Development and Literature, you will expand your knowledge and critical understanding of the three pillars of sustainability (social, environmental, economic), learn the facts about climate change, explore the UN Sustainable Development Goals, and consider potential and emerging solutions such as the Green New Deals, the concept of ‘degrowth’, and the transition to wellbeing economies, leaving you ideally placed to influence, or indeed become, one of the decision-makers.
You will also explore Literature in a global context, looking in depth at language and literary history within texts and on the international literary stage.
With a solid foundation in genres and periods in years one and two, and research-based modules in years three and four, you will become a confident and enthusiastic writer, researcher, and reader.
You will study the following sustainable development modules:
You will study two literature modules, which may include:
You will usually study the following sustainable development modules:
You will also choose three literature modules, which may include:
You will complete a dissertation in either Sustainable Development or Literature.
Sustainable Development modules may include:
If you wish to attend an optional residential weekend, or to join other field trips, student contributions will be required towards the overall costs incurred.
The cost will vary depending on the event, your location, and the amount of other funding available towards the event (eg HISA contributions to the Student Society Residential weekend may reduce costs for individual students).
Once you have successfully completed your BA (Hons) Sustainable Development and Literature course, you might like to consider careers in:
Alternatively, you may wish to progress from BA (Hons) Sustainable Development and Literature to one of the following courses:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-sustainable-development-and-politics:
Course code D44P
The necessary changes will impact on every facet of society, culture and the economy: this is a critical moment to study sustainability.
This BA (Hons) Sustainable Development and Politics will examine the facts about climate change, explore the UN Sustainable Development Goals, and consider potential and emerging solutions such as the Green New Deals, the concept of ‘degrowth’ and the transition to wellbeing economies, leaving you ideally placed to influence - or indeed become - one of the decision-makers.
The degree also focuses on how communities can shape a more sustainable form of development, particularly in rural settings.
Most of our teaching team are based in the Western Isles where 75% of people live on community-owned land.
This sets the context for us to study community-based development, land reform, community empowerment and community energy projects, which can all contribute to a more sustainable future.
To develop a critical understanding of the three pillars of sustainability (social, environmental, economic), you will study modules drawn from a range of social science disciplines such as geography, economics, politics, sociology, and environmental studies, as well as developing practical skills in research and working with communities.
The modules take a critical approach to examining the historical context to development, whilst looking firmly to the future and drawing examples of change in action from around the globe.
You will also study green ideologies, such as ecoism and ecologism, as well as environmental policies and the ways they are formed.
Political leaders are so pivotal to climate change and sustainable futures that the combined study of politics along with sustainable development could not be more timely.
You will also study two of the following:
You will complete either a Sustainable Development or Politics dissertation.
Once you have successfully completed this BA (Hons) Sustainable Development and Politics, you might like to consider careers in:
Alternatively, you may wish to progress from BA (Hons) Sustainable Development and Politics to one of the following courses:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-sustainable-development-with-gaelic-studies:
Course code D44G
Sustainable development, from the local to the global, is essential if society is to tackle the challenges faced.
The modules take a critical approach to examining the historical context to development whilst looking firmly to the future drawing examples of change in action from around the globe.
As part of the BA (Hons) Sustainable Development with Gaelic Studies, you will develop a good understanding of Gaelic issues, Gaelic language,  and culture, as well as elements of Gaelic history and literature.
There is no requirement for Gaelic language skills on entry, you will have the opportunity to learn the language or develop your language skills depending on your starting point.
The Gaelic Studies are about Gaelic, taught in English, with Gaelic language modules suitable for all levels of ability.
You will study the following modules: Approaches to economic development (S1) Empowering communities (S1) Gaelic for learners 2A (S1) Gaelic for learners 2B (S2)
You will usually study the following sustainable development modules: Globalisation and sustainable development (S1) Sustainable Tourism and the Environment (S2) Advanced social research methods (S1) OR Climate change (S1)
You will also choose three Gaelic modules, which may include: Traditional Gaelic culture (S1) Gaoir nam ban: Gaelic women’s poetry 1644-1746 (S2) Language policy and planning 1 (S2) Language awareness (S2)
You will complete a dissertation in either Sustainable Development or Gaelic.
Sustainable development modules may include: Geo-political development issues (S1) The consumerist society (S2) Sustainable agriculture systems (S2) Social enterprise and the social economy (S1)
Gaelic modules may include: Traditional Gaelic culture in the 21st century (S1) Iarshader to Iraq: poetry of conflict (S1) Language policy in the workplace (S2)
The cost will vary depending on the event, your location and the amount of other funding available (for example, HISA contributions to the Student Society Residential weekend may reduce costs for individual students).
Attendance at these face to face events is optional and not essential for completion of the course.
Once you have successfully completed the BA (Hons) Sustainable Development with Gaelic Studies, you might like to consider careers in:
Alternatively, you may wish to progress from BA (Hons) Sustainable Development with Gaelic Studies to one of the following courses:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-sustainable-development-culture-and-heritage:
Course code D4CH
The necessary changes will impact on every facet of society, culture and the economy; this is a critical moment to study sustainability, culture and heritage.
Our BA (Hons) Sustainable Development, Culture and Heritage considers these issues from a humanities and social science perspective, focusing on understanding the three pillars of sustainability (social, environmental, economic), in order to examine human relationships with the environment as well as the subjects of key cultural, literary, language, historical, musical and philosophical issues at a national and regional level.
This course will provide you with the knowledge and skills to understand many aspects of our rapidly changing world, equipping you to tackle real-world problems in a range of organisations and sectors, with the wide curriculum developing both specialist and transferable skills.
Plus one module from each of the following choices:
You will also choose two further option modules from across the humanities subject area.
Plus one of the following modules:
Plus, two of the following modules:
* these modules rotate on an annual basis
You will complete a dissertation in either Sustainable Development or Culture and Heritage.
Once you have successfully completed this BA (Hons) Sustainable Development, Culture and Heritage course, you might like to consider careers in:
Alternatively, you may wish to progress from BA (Hons) Sustainable Development, Culture and Heritage to one of the following courses:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/msc-sustainable-energy-solutions:
Course code F854
As the sustainable energy sector continues to grow and becomes ever more important to our societies, there is a need for trained individuals to plan, implement and manage new renewable energy projects.
The MSc Sustainable Energy Solutions will provide you with the theoretical and practical tools to place you at the centre of such ventures.
You will get a comprehensive overview of renewable energy from the different and complementary perspectives of resources, technology, environment and socioeconomics.
If you are already working in or are interested in a career in the renewable energy or low-carbon technology sectors, this dynamic course will provide you with the knowledge and skills required to critically analyse the theories, principles and concepts of low-carbon energy production and sustainability.
Additionally, the course will give you a firm understanding of the technical and economic case for renewables along with confidence to tackle the calculations required to assess their viability.
To achieve the award of MSc Sustainable Energy Solutions you must complete the PgDip plus a research dissertation.
On completion of this MSc Sustainable Energy Solutions, you will be well-equipped to take up positions in the management of renewable energy projects, and more widely in the public and private sectors, including:
This Masters degree will allow you to progress into a Doctorate of Philosophy (PhD).

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/cpd-award-sustainable-land-use-scqf-level-11:
Course code F85SL
The way we use land (and who makes those decisions) has profound implications for where we can live, what employment is available, how we eat, how we spend our leisure time and what animals and plants we come into contact with.
Land is a finite resource which is gradually reducing in quality and quantity, both in Scotland and around the world.
In this context, it is becoming increasingly important to consider how we integrate certain land uses, what the implications of this may be, and to what extent this can be considered a sustainable approach to utilising this finite resource.
In rural Scotland today, we are wrestling with many of these issues in a number of ways, such as: the rural housing crisis; agricultural reform and the ongoing role of crofting; the burgeoning natural capital market; the future of hunting and shooting estates; the renewed interest in ‘rewilding’ and biodiversity protection; and reforms in the ownership and governance of land.
Join our CPD Award Sustainable Land Use (SCQF level 11) module to explore these debates from the perspective of policy, practice, and theory, learning how we can own, use, and manage land in ways which provide for sustainable economic, social, and environmental objectives, while prioritising and integrating the voices of local people.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/cpd-award-sustainable-marine-environmental-management-scqf-level-8:
Course code D436
Are you interested in marine management, licensing or consultancy?
Do you need to work with communities, stakeholders and other marine users to engage them in marine decision making?
Gain the skills needed to work in the public or private sector as a development planner, policy officer, or marine manager, on our CPD Award Sustainable Marine Environmental Management (SCQF level 8).
Improve your knowledge of the complexities of managing the marine environment, maritime activity, and development, with specialist options for those interested in working in marine energy, aquaculture, or in community engagement.
Develop your understanding of marine planning and governance processes, engagement of stakeholders, and impacts of development on the marine environment and other users.
Explore the essential components of sustainability principles, social justice, governance, planning, and law, as you develop an appreciation of the skills and tasks inherent to development projects, including community participation, satisfying the requirements of statutory planning and licensing considerations, and undertaking of necessary appraisals.
Join our in-depth and engaging course and allow us to help you to you to take on new roles, building on existing experience to become more engaged with marine licensing, governance and consenting.
You will study the following 2 core modules (20 credits each): Marine management and policy
Participation, inclusion and engagement in marine planning
You will also study 1 of the following optional modules (20 credits each): Empowering coastal communities: ocean citizenship and engagement
Managing sustainable energy development
Manage fish farm operations and production
Sustainable Aquaculture
Once you have successfully completed this CPD award, you might like to consider careers in:
You may wish to progress from CPD Sustainable Marine Environmental Management (SCQF level 8) to our BSc Marine Science .

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/msc-sustainable-mountain-development:
Course code 91L7
Mountains are an essential component of landscapes at a range of scales, providing distinctive environments that underpin the provision of essential ecosystems and support highly diverse combinations of species.
The specific qualities of mountain areas influence local land management practices, livelihoods, services, and infrastructure, and community development is inextricably linked with the sustainable management of natural and culture resources in mountain areas.
Sustainable development in mountain areas requires an understanding of environmental, ecological and socio-economic dynamics.
If you want to make a real difference towards the sustainability of mountain regions, this MSc Sustainable Mountain Development is for you.
Access the latest thinking on complex mountain issues on this tailor-made course, studying modules with a focus on advanced theory and practice relating to environmental, social, economic, and professional development.
Develop the tools to help you understand and manage the challenges faced by people living and working in mountainous areas today, and contribute to their solutions.
Study online from anywhere in the world and join a vibrant international community of students who share a passion for mountains, as you take your next steps towards a career in this fascinating and essential field.
Optional modules, from which you must choose three, include:
*It's strongly recommended that you take one of these modules if you plan to continue to MSc level ** available as stand-alone CPD module for September start *** available as stand-alone CPD module for January start
To achieve the award of MSc Sustainable Mountain Development you must complete a 15,000 word research dissertation on a topic of your own choice.
This is a 60-credit module.
You will be enrolled by staff at the Centre for Mountain Studies, UHI Perth, who will deliver the course with support from staff across the UHI partnership.
On successful completion of the MSc Sustainable Mountain Development, you will be equipped to pursue or further develop a career in a number of different spheres in mountain management, such as:
You may wish to progress from this MSc Sustainable Mountain Development to PhD study.
The MSc Sustainable Mountain Development was the course for me as it was both interesting and helpful for my career development.
The course has provided self-discipline and knowledge that will be invaluable moving forward.
The flexibility of learning was perfect for me while I was working while studying, sometimes with limited internet connection.
I enjoyed the style of teaching, and believe that having the MSc will be invaluable.
I am already using what I learned in my course working for the Quebec Paddling Association where I assess paddling route feasibility, infrastructure and sustainability.
Will graduated from the MSc Sustainable Mountain Development at the Centre for Mountain Studies UHI Perth while studying from Canada.
As an accountant for 30 years, when I heard that TV presenter and environmentalist Philippa Forrester on BBC Radio Scotland's Outdoor podcast had undertaken some studies to make a career transition, I was fascinated.
I have always loved climbing the hills and mountains, and after some research, I found the MSc in Sustainable Mountain Development.
Despite having a degree without Honours in Business Studies, after an interview and submitting an essay, I was accepted for this course!
While studying, I got a job as a Licensing Support Officer at NatureScot.
After less than a year, I successfully applied for the role of Deer Policy Officer.
This was wonderful as I found the Sustainable Deer Management Module the most rewarding of all the modules I had done!
It’s been quite a journey over the last few years and I owe everything to UHI for the course, which has opened the doors to where I am now.
Paul is studying the MSc Sustainable Mountain Development at the Centre for Mountain Studies UHI Perth.
It was the unique course that made me choose UHI.
It was exactly what I was looking for - an interdisciplinary degree where I learnt about biodiversity and tourism.
I really liked the style of teaching, which was learning through the online portal and video calls.
I could complete assignments in my own time and it fit around my work commitments.
I run my own ski and adventure tourism travel agency.
I've always loved the mountains and travel, so my degree helped me to understand the mountains from an environmental point of view whilst deepening my knowledge and education around sustainable tourism development.
I now have the confidence to run a business thanks to things I learnt on the course.
I liked the close-knit feeling and the teaching was great.
The tutors really know what they're talking about and all the staff are always willing to help.
My degree is quite unique and it has really boosted my career prospects- I'm so glad I took the leap and studied at UHI.
Alice studied the MSc Sustainable Mountain Development at UHI Perth.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/cpd-award-sustainable-resource-management-scqf-level-9:
Course code D4SR
Our CPD Award Sustainable Resource Management (SCQF level 9) is relevant to anyone with an interest in land use, resource management and sustainability.
You will have the opportunity to learn more about climate change, obtain specific skills such as GIS (Geographical Information Systems), and consider different sectors in more detail, such as agriculture, tourism, energy and waste, and environmental impacts on development and planning.
Rural and urban community and environmental activists, graduates, practitioners, and professionals, with a role in implementing sustainable development in our communities, can:
You may wish to progress from the CPD Award Sustainable Resource Management (SCQF level 9) to BA (Hons) Sustainable Development .

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/cpd-award-teaching-in-colleges-today-scqf-level-7:
Course code X361
This Teaching in Colleges Today (SCQF level 7) CPD Award is aimed at: newly employed lecturers; college staff who are involved in teaching and assessing college students, but do not hold a recognised teaching qualification; and final year degree and postgraduate students, who may wish to move into a career in Further Education.
By starting this course as soon as you begin your college role, you will have the opportunity to quickly develop the knowledge and skills needed to be able to effectively plan and deliver learning, teaching, and assessment for your students.
This will complement any in-house induction and orientation process and give you a solid foundation with which to pursue your teaching career.
This online learning unit can be taken by anyone, however it should be noted that you can only be formally assessed and gain accreditation of learning by College Development Network (CDN) if you are a college lecturer in Scotland.
You will study the following subjects:
You may wish to progress to CPD Award Teaching in Colleges Today (SCQF level 8) .

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/cpd-award-teaching-in-colleges-today-scqf-level-8:
Course code X362
This CPD Teaching in Colleges Today (SCQF level 8) has been designed to help you quickly develop the knowledge and skills needed to be a capable and effective college lecturer or teaching staff member.
This award is ideal for recently in-post college lecturers and staff, specifically those involved in learning, teaching and assessing students, who have minimal teaching experience or qualifications.
It will also suit final-year degree and postgraduate students with mentoring experience, who may wish to move into a career in FE.
This unit provides a progression pathway for recently appointed college lecturers.
You will broaden and deepen your understanding of the vital skills that all educators need, to successfully plan and deliver high quality learning, teaching and assessment to students.
The unit allows you to develop these skills as soon as possible after beginning employment in a college, complementing any in-house new staff induction and orientation processes which are location-specific.
At level 8, you will be expected to demonstrate a more thorough understanding of a range of learning needs, their impact on learning, and ways to mitigate any adverse effects that they may cause.
In comparison to Teaching in Colleges Today (SCQF level 7), you will also be expected to be able to critically analyse and evaluate your professional decisions and current practice, identifying personal strengths and areas for improvement.
This will enable you to identify personal development priority actions and targets.
You may wish to progress to CPD Award Teaching Practice in Scotland's Colleges (SCQF level 9).

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/pgcert-teaching-qualification-further-education:
Course code X302
This PgCert Teaching Qualification Further Education is a one-year, part-time online programme to develop effective teaching by lecturers in colleges and tertiary establishments.
It is ideally suited to lecturers who have degree-level qualifications in their subject and are looking to engage with teaching and learning at masters level.
It will equip you with the knowledge, skills and attributes to support your registration with the General Teaching Council of Scotland as a lecturer.
The programme uses a collaborative approach to online learning, with activities designed to help you develop professional knowledge and understanding, engage in professional dialogue, and develop critical enquiry to inform practice.
You will develop your skills in reflective practice, and engage with educational theory, research, policy and complex professional issues in this sector of education.
This programme will support you to develop your teaching practice, with positive outcomes for you and your learners.
This course is accredited for the award of a Teaching Qualification in Further Education by the Scottish Government and the General Teaching Council of Scotland.
The following fees apply for UK students ie students assessed as Scottish or rest of the UK for fee status :
This course is not available for international students requiring Student Route visa sponsorship to study here, including EU/EEA and Swiss nationals without settled status in the UK.
You may wish to progress from the PgCert Teaching Qualification Further Education into masters level study in:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/cpd-award-teaching-qualification-further-education-scqf-level-9:
Course code X301
If you are a lecturer with practice experience, hold professional awards in your subject and are looking to gain a teaching qualification for further education, this course is ideal for you.
This CPD Award Teaching Qualification Further Education (SCQF level 9) is a one-year, part-time online programme to develop effective teaching by lecturers in colleges and tertiary establishments.
Once you have successfully completed this course, you will be elgible to register as a Lecturer with the General Teaching Council for Scotland.
You may wish to progress from CPD Award Teaching Qualificatioin Further Education (SCQF level 9) to complete a BA in the Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Business.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/pda-team-leadership-and-management-scqf-level-7:
Course code 002N
Are you new to team leadership?
Perhaps you're hoping to apply for your first formal team leadership role but have some gaps in your skillset?
Join our PDA in Team Leadership and Management (SCQF level 7), and gain the confidence and experience you need to excel in a team leader role.
Designed to develop your competency and knowledge in providing direction and motivation to achieve consistent team success, gain new managerial skills and enhance your existing abilities in a shorter time-frame by studying these two SCQF level 7 modules, jointly certified by the SQA (Scottish Qualifications Authority) and CMI (Chartered Management Institute).
You will also choose one of the following optional modules:
The course fees for this PDA are £260.
On successful achievement of this PDA you are eligible to apply for membership of the CMI, enabling you to join the professional management community and benefit from the development opportunities that this may offer.
On completion of this PDA Team Leadership and Management (SCQF level 7), you may wish to progress to additional qualifications such as:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnc-technical-theatre:
Course code 144W
With a growing demand for well-trained, capable support, there are no shortage of behind-the-scenes opportunities in the theatre and events industry.
Gain hands-on experience in lighting and sound systems, stage management, set design and construction, and audio visual systems, and enjoy valuable work experience with established venues across the region.
Mandatory units include:
Once you have successfully completed your HNC Technical Theatre, you might like to consider careers in:
On successful completion of this course you may progress to the HND Technical Theatre and Production Arts .
Morven is studying the BA (Hons) Theatre Industry Practice at UHI Perth.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnd-technical-theatre-and-production-arts:
Course code 044W
For entry to year 1, HNC Technical Theatre :
Year 1 of this course is HNC Technical Theatre .
Units may include:
The course is designed to provide students with a broad technical skill set and is not limited to traditional theatre and may provide a pathway into festivals, festival theatres and film and television and other types of creative events or installations.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/bsc-hons-technological-education:
Course code H106
Are you passionate about pursuing a career in STEM?
Could you inspire the analytical minds of the future and guide them through the fascinating world of technology?
Join our BSc (Hons) Technological Education to pursue a rewarding career as a Technological Education teacher in a secondary school.
Learn from our STEM experts, developing your subject knowledge via engaging lectures, plus theoretical and practical workshops with a focus on the specialist subject content.
Engage with established theory and practical modules, alongside our BA (Hons) Food, Nutrition and Textiles degree, and benefit from shared experiences with students pursuing Home Economics teaching.
Learn specialist subjects such as practical engineering, construction skills, and computer aided drafting, developing your key skills and knowledge in engineering and technological disciplines as well as educational theory and practice.
Let us teach you how to lead the next generation of technologists as you take your next steps in this creative and vital field.
This course is not running for 2025/26.
Applications for September 2026 will open in September 2025, please revisit this page then to apply.
Advanced entry to year two
You will be offered school placements near to your home or term address, this may involve some additional travel costs.
A structured support for additional travel costs will be put in place for school experience modules.
All graduates who meet the SPR will enter an induction year contract with a local authority.
Successful completion of an induction year will qualify you to teach Technological Education in Scotland.
Current vacancy figures suggest that all successful graduates will be able to follow a career in teaching.
The range of knowledge and skills in this degree will also support you to work in a range of related careers, particularly in engineering and design related industries.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnc-technologies-in-business:
Course code 161I
The HNC Technologies in Business is for anyone who wishes to pursue a business career in the digital economy.
It has been structured to provide you with a background in business operations, technology, project management and entrepreneurship, to give you access to employment across a wide variety of sectors.
The course is uniquely positioned to allow you to gain an essential and highly sought-after combination of technology and business skills.
Upon successful completion of the HNC Technologies in Business, you may wish to pursue a career in:
Upon successful completion of the HNC Technologies in Business you may progress on to the second year of HND Technologies in Business .

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnd-technologies-in-business:
Course code 261I
The HND Technologies in Business is for anyone who wishes to pursue a business career in the digital economy.
For entry to year 1, HNC Technologies in Business :
Year 1 of the course is HNC Technologies in Business .
Upon successful completion of the HND Technologies in Business, you may wish to pursue a career in:
You can progress directly from the HND Technologies in Business to the following undergraduate courses:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/pda-technology-enabled-care-scqf-level-7:
Course code 403P
This course has been designed and developed to support Scotland's National Digital Health and Care Strategy and workforce education around technology enabled care.
It would be of interest to those who are new to technology enabled care as well as those who have experience within the field.
It is specifically designed to enable you to develop or advance your knowledge, skills and abilities in this ever-changing field of practice.
Technology enabled care is used to describe a range of care and support options available via digital technology, telephone, mobile, broadband and video-conferencing, to support people in their home and with professionals at a distance (NES, 2018).
The course also provides the opportunity for you to develop underpinning knowledge for the National Occupational Standards (NOS) in Health and Social Care.
It does not provide automatic certification of skills and is dependent on the information produced by you.
Successful completion of the course may lead to enhanced career opportunities.
After successful completion of this course you may wish to consider progression to an HNC programme such as:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/med-tertiary-and-higher-education:
Course code X300
This MEd Tertiary and Higher Education is designed to support the professional development of individuals working in education and training at either tertiary or higher education level.
The intention is to strengthen and enhance participants' understanding of educational issues while raising their professional profiles.
You will have the opportunity to focus your studies on an area of professional educational interest while developing research skills and an understanding of ethical principles in higher education.
The course also offers specialist modules for those working in a clinical practice and who teach, for example; nursing or dental students.
Students who choose this option can exit with a PgCert Clinical Pedagogy or continue on to the full MEd Tertiary and Higher Education.
It is recommended that you attend the face-to-face induction offered at the beginning of the course.
You will also choose one option module which may include:
Those working in a clinical practice and who teach (for example, nursing or dental students) may study the core Clinical Pedagogy modules below, and either exit at this point with a PgCert Clinical Pedagogy, or continue on to the full MEd Tertiary and Higher Education:
You will also choose two option modules which may include:
To achieve the award of MEd Tertiary and Higher Education you must complete a research dissertation.
This course can provide a strong base for those wishing to undertake to a Doctorate of Education (EdD) or PhD.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/cpd-award-the-built-environment-infection-prevention-and-control-scqf-level-11:
Course code B99B
The design of healthcare environments is very topical in Scotland following the challenges identified in two newly built hospitals.
This CPD Award will provide you with the skills to deal with scenarios that might arise during the design, planning, construction and maintenance of healthcare facilities, and understand the role of these elements in relation to prevention and control of infection.
The module will use a problem-based approach to enable you to:
Infection prevention and control practitioners, environmental health officers, doctors, and dentists, with clinical experience, who wish to develop knowledge of the built environment in a healthcare setting and engage in postgraduate education.
For the critically reflective practitioner, this module will provide credits towards a Masters in Infection Prevention and Control.
For more details and /or informal discussion about the module please contact: MSc.ic@uhi.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-theatre-industry-practice:
Course code W303
Are you a born performer who loves treading the boards?
Maybe you prefer making things happen behind the scenes, as part of the production team that pulls everything together?
Broaden your knowledge of the current theatre industry and develop the skills you need to work in a variety of theatre and performing arts areas, on this comprehensive skills-led BA (Hons) Theatre Industry Practice*.
Created by industry professionals in response to local student demand, join this tailor-made course and build your experience with hands-on training, culminating in live theatre productions and performance opportunities such as traditional theatre production, community theatre, educational workshops, technical installation, and design.
Immerse yourself in a range of theatre-based disciplines, including performing, directing, producing, arts tutoring, stage management, and technical areas such as lighting and set design.
Learn from expert practitioners, gain hands-on experience via a placement module of your choice, and engage with extra-curricular workshops and master classes delivered by industry professionals.
Let us support you as you grow in knowledge and confidence, before taking your experience out into the world to enjoy a sustainable and rewarding career in the vibrant and creative world of theatre.
Entry to this course is via HNC Musical Theatre or HNC Technical Theatre :
Please apply to one of the following HNCs if you wish to study the first year of this course:
Please apply to one of the following HNDs if you wish to study the second year of this course:
This may vary during rehearsal and production weeks.
You will be responsible for any additional costs for:
You may be able to progress from BA (Hons) Theatre Industry Practice to the following courses:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-theological-studies:
Course code V600
The BA (Hons) Theological Studies gives you a broad knowledge and understanding of the main disciplines of Christian theology, and the personal and professional capabilities required for a variety of ministries or general employment.
The degree is led by HTC, a non-denominational college recognised by the Church of Scotland, the Associated Presbyterian Churches, the United Free Church of Scotland and other denominations as a training provider.
You will read a wide range of theology across all main traditions and have access to special collections in HTC's impressive library.
A work placement will enable you to relate your acquired theoretical knowledge to real life situations.
Visiting speakers will give you a flavour of the different areas of service that may be of interest for future employment or volunteering, for example: churches, youth work, hospital chaplaincy, army chaplaincy, seminaries and mission agencies in the UK and abroad.
Access to Christian Theology at HTC.
*these modules run on alternate years
*these modules run on alternate years.
Subjects may include:
You should set aside approximately 14 hours per module per week.
This includes time spent in lectures and your own time spent on individual study and research.
Once you have successfully completed your BA (Hons) Theological Studies course, you might like to consider careers in the following:
I had looked at a few theology courses but this one seemed best suited to my needs, as I lived locally could walk to university.
I had looked at Glasgow University and the Scottish Baptist College but I found that UHI had the best options for me in terms of flexibility and funding.
The highlight for me has been the Systematic Theology module.
Studying has not been as difficult as I was worried it might be, and there is always support at UHI when you need it.
Elizabeth studies BA (Hons) Theological Studies at HTC, a UHI partner.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/mlitt-theology-worldview-and-culture:
Course code V620
Why do faith perspectives always seem to clash with the voice of a largely secular culture?
Is it even possible to be a Christian and a politician in today’s world?
What does it mean to be a Christian artist, financier, engineer, musician, or farmer in this period of history?
Develop an inter-disciplinary approach to an integrative and thoroughly creational Christian theology, on this MLitt Theology, Worldview and Culture.
Let us introduce you to the theological methods, categories, and concepts you need to relate Christian tradition to every aspect of life in the contemporary world.
Whether you have a background as a minister, church worker, professional, artist, or business person, draw strongly on the outlook of classical neo-Calvinism and become equipped with the skills and knowledge necessary to analyse and understand our cultural landscape, and begin to respond to the opportunities and challenges faced by society and the church.
Full-time students will also study the following module:
Part-time students will also study the following module:
To achieve the award of MLitt Theology, Worldview and Culture you must also complete a 60-credit research dissertation.
Number of hours per week indicates the total number of hours you should dedicate to the course, which includes time spent in tutorials and lectures, and your own time spent on individual study and research.
You will be enrolled and supported by staff at Highland Theological College UHI.
You may wish to progress from MLitt Theology, Worldview and Culture to pursue an MRes or PhD at Highland Theological College UHI, any of our UHI Academic Partners, or another institution.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/cpd-award-tidal-wave-and-future-energy-scqf-level-11:
Course code F85TW
Do you have an interest in energy and the potential of resources available on the planet?
Learn more about these systems, their technology, and their environmental impact, on this specialist CPD award, designed for anyone who wishes to understand future energy systems that are still in their infancy.
Focus on marine energy, particularly wave and tidal stream, including resource evaluation and technology, while also exploring other new renewable energy systems such as: hydrogen; biomass; hydropower; tidal barrages; thermal and osmotic marine energy; geothermy; and nuclear fast fission and fusion.
Join our comprehensive course, and benefit from the expertise of tutors who are actively involved in research and collaboration with Scotland’s vibrant industry in marine and sustainable energy.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/msc-tourism:
Course code N831
Recent worldwide developments have impacted our lives in every way.
The tourism industry has never faced a greater global challenge or been in more need of skilled, focused expertise to guide it through these unprecedented times.
Developing the skills and resilience needed in such an environment as we find ourselves today is central to the MSc Tourism programme.
You will concentrate on adapting to changing contexts, as framed by the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) which are being mainstreamed and adopted as an ‘international currency’ by different countries and nations, including Scotland.
Another key programme focus will be in developing and utilising meta-skills such as complex problem solving, critical thinking, communication, creativity and leadership.
You will gain the benefit of observing and experiencing incremental progress and engaging with new tools and methods.
This fully online programme offers two specialised exit awards; the pathway you choose will depend on your own specific background and interests:
MSc Tourism Travelling with a purpose will be the new tourism mindset.
This pathway is for the tourism professional wanting to support communities, destinations and businesses in tourism, as part of the solution rather than the problem, for a sustainable and successful future.
MSc Tourism (Enterprise) Tourism is a major part of the experience economy.
This pathway is for the tourism professional wanting to create meaningful connections between operators and visitors, and ensure expenditure is directed to positive outcomes where quality of life matters.
Both pathways will help you develop and build on your specific interests and expertise, and gain practical, analytical, and highly transferable skills sought after by employers.
Access routes include:
You will study the following three core modules (20 credits each):
You will study three modules from the following (20 credits each):
To achieve the award of MSc Tourism you must complete a 60 credit professional business project or dissertation (S1 and S2).
Number of hours per week indicates the total number of hours you should dedicate to the course, which includes time spent in online lectures and your own time spent on individual study and research.
You should allocate approximately 12 hours per week to each 20-credit module.
You will be enrolled and receive support from tutors at UHI Perth.
On successful completion of the MSc Tourism, you will leave with the inspiration, understanding and confidence to define and respond to tourism’s pressing social, economic and environmental priorities.
You may pursue or further develop a career in several different tourism spheres, such as:
The MSc Tourism provides excellent preparation and training for further advanced study (including PhD) in many areas of socio-economic, environmental and responsible tourism research.
I chose UHI for its flexibility and supported learning.
The quality of education and emphasis on sustainability also made MSc Tourism the right course for me.
I studied while living in Norway, and appreciated the high-quality online teaching.
The teaching staff were available and very responsive to all my questions.
My course leader was compassionate and reassuring in times of doubt.
I really appreciated the exchanges with other students during online meetings as well as the autonomy I had to read through the materials and study with my own schedule.
When I think of UHI, one word comes to mind: community.
Even though I was studying online, I felt included and proud to be part of such a diverse university.
I received excellent support, it is one of the strong points of UHI, particularly for international students such as myself.
I was very grateful for the small class sizes which allow the teachers to better support the students.
Justine studied MSc Tourism at UHI Perth.
I particularly enjoyed the sessions where I interacted with other students from different cultures and backgrounds, as this gave me new insights and perspectives I would have not has otherwise.
The lecturers and course leaders were always passionate about their subjects and were always available to help and provide advice at short notice.
I thoroughly enjoyed the MSc Tourism and would recommend UHI to any prospective students!
David studied the MSc Tourism (Enterprise) at UHI Perth.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/pda-trauma-informed-approaches-scqf-level-7:
Course code 415L
This PDA Trauma Informed Approaches (SCQF level 7) allows you to gain knowledge and understanding of trauma, including the causes and impact of trauma on an individual.
You will also learn the importance of being an informed practitioner, enabling you to support individuals affected by trauma.
You will be enrolled and supported by staff at UHI Perth.
It may be possible to use the SAAS Part-Time Fee Grant towards this course if you meet the eligibility criteria.
Find out more about this grant here .
Depending upon prior experience and qualifications, you may wish to progress from PDA Trauma Informed Approaches (SCQF level 7) to the following courses:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/mlitt-viking-studies:
Course code R600
The Vikings have been incredibly influential in world history and culture.
The Institute for Northern Studies ' team will be using their recognised expertise in this area to create this unique and exciting course on offer to students all over the world and to re-evaluate the Vikings; past, present, and future.
Students will be able to critically evaluate key historical, economic, and social developments in the Viking world and analyse the significance and legacy of the cultural history of the Vikings both in isolation and in a wider context temporally and geographically.
You will look at Viking iconography in text and film, the role of women, and the significance of runes among other fascinating topics.
As part of the degree, you will study a set of core modules and also have the opportunity to choose from a range of optional modules, bringing the study of the Viking period into a wider perspective.
Plus, two further modules from the following:
You will study the one remaining module from those listed in the PgCert, plus two optional modules from the following:
To achieve the award of MLitt Viking Studies you must complete a research dissertation.
This course is delivered online with scheduled seminars and may also be of particular interest to students based near our Perth, Shetland, or North, West and Hebrides campuses who are interested in evaluating key archaeological, historical, economic, and social developments in the Viking world.
Once you have successfully completed your MLitt Viking Studies, there are a variety of careers you might like to consider.
There are very few courses available like this anywhere in the world, and none of this calibre through distance learning.
I looked at universities in Britain and Scandinavia, including Iceland.
I felt that the university had the best of the British and Scandinavian approaches, including several Scandinavian staff members.
Originally from the UK, Ross Downing is studying full-time on our MLitt Viking Studies, from his location in Sweden.
I undertook the MLitt Viking Studies through distance learning and very much enjoyed it.
It was ideal in preparing me for what I am doing now - a full-time PhD, also with the Institute for Northern Studies.
The MLitt covers a wide range of important issues and has a choice of modules catering for different interests.
In addition, I was able to present my work at an international conference during my studies which boosted my confidence before embarking on further study.
Andrea Freund, MLitt Viking Studies graduate, now undertaking a PhD with the Institute for Northern Studies.
Our students have the chance to undertake unique programmes delivered by world leading experts.
Their study at both masters and PhD level also equips them with a range of soft transferable skills which makes them very employable in today’s interdisciplinary and digital workplace.
We are very much looking to the future as well as the past at the Institute for Northern Studies!
Dr Alexandra Sanmark, Reader in Medieval Archaeology, Institute for Northern Studies.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnc-visual-communication:
Course code 712W
Looking to combine your love of design with your interests in technology and communication?
Join our dynamic and multi-disciplinary programmes, using state-of-the-art software and printmaking facilities to explore creative tools and techniques relevant to graphic design; photography; design for screen and print; animation and illustration.
Enhance your employment opportunities with live project work in liaison with industry.
These courses form the first two years of our BA (Hons) Visual Communication and Design.
You will study by way of face-to-face lectures, tutorials and remote class sessions, tutorials and practical work in the classroom and design studio.
Students will be expected to supply most of their own materials, approximate cost £350.
However, there may be grants available for eligible students to help cover these costs.
Students are expected to fund the materials required for the production of projects and should allow a starting budget of £150 per year for this.
Optional course trips are available in some campuses at a fee of between £300 – £600, dependent upon selected destination.
On completion of your course you might like to consider careers in art, digital media, design, broadcast, graphics or illustration.
You can progress to the HND Visual Communication .
I choose UHI as I don’t like larger cities and here felt more relaxed.
This course had a good variety of projects which allowed for us to explore different types of visual communications.
I have used software that is employers look for designers to have experience with as well as teaching me how to balance and prioritise large workloads.
I made a lot of friends living in the halls of residence, I enjoy the relaxed atmosphere here and the lecturing staff are great!
For me, the best thing about living here is the outdoors.
You never need to go too far away to take a break from everything.
Robyn studied the BA (Hons) Visual Communication and Design at UHI Inverness.
The Visual Communications and design course allowed me to explore a multitude of mediums and modes of expression, helping me to discover my creativity and nurturing my existing skills into a professional practice.
I entered my studies as someone with very little self-confidence or direction and left with passion and a drive to do something with my life.
I always felt supported to do my best work and was in a constant state of inspiration, the lecturers for the creative industry courses are extremely knowledgeable and very happy to share their experience.
My studies at UHI Perth have allowed me to develop as a professional and have pushed me to explore avenues which I’d had otherwise thought to be out of reach.
Some of live creative briefs I tackled during my studies are still part of my portfolio today and have helped illustrate the skills and experience I bring to creative projects.
What I like most about UHI is the friendly and welcoming atmosphere.
Gregor studied the BA (Hons) Visual Communication and Design at UHI Perth.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnd-visual-communication:
Course code 312W
For entry to year 1, HNC Visual Communication :
Year 1 of this course is HNC Visual Communication .
You will study by way of face-to-face lectures, and remote class sessions, tutorials and practical work in the classroom and design studio.
Students are expected to fund the materials required for the production of projects, they should allow starting budget of £150 per year for this.
On successful completion, you can progress to the BA (Hons) Visual Communication and Design .

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/ba-hons-visual-communication-and-design:
Course code W213
Become one of the most sought-after professionals in the industry, combining your creative thinking with your passion for art, technology, and communication.
Learn to generate innovative ideas and expand your creative problem-solving skills on our tailored programme, as you work on projects with social, economic, and environmental significance.
Develop your individual style and interests, as you gain a clear understanding of contemporary design theory and practice.
With opportunities for exciting work placements, live projects, and national and international trips and competitions to suit your individual skills and interests, let us support you in the development of your professional profile and portfolio as you pursue this stimulating career path.
HNC Visual Communication
HND Visual Communication
Students are expected to fund the materials required for the production of projects, they should allow a starting budget of £150 per year for this.
Optional Course trips are available in some campuses at a fee of between £300 – £600, dependent upon selected destination.
The BA (Hons) Visual Communication and Design will prepare you for, but is not limited to, a career in digital media, design, broadcast, graphics, illustration or marketing.
You can progress to the MA Art and Social Practice
I chose UHI as I don’t like larger cities and here felt more relaxed.
This course had a good variety of projects which allowed for us to explore different types of visual communications, learning about what ones we liked best and as we move through the years, we are given the opportunity to choose briefs that we feel best suit our personal preferences.
We work with clients during course, and I was lucky enough to have one of my designs chosen to be used by them.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/cpd-award-water-resources-in-a-changing-climate-scqf-level-11:
Course code WATMAN
Are you fascinated by the way we approach water use?
Could you contribute to the innovations needed to tackle water management in the face of climate change?
As water becomes an increasingly variable resource, join our CPD Water Resources in a Changing Climate to understand regulations for water usage and explore stakeholder’s roles in developing a healthy water environment now and in the future.
Explore concepts of sustainable water management from both theoretical and practical viewpoints, including best practice case studies of how the needs of the water user can be met without compromising the benefits that a healthy water environment provides to our society.
Use the latest projections for the UK to obtain an in-depth assessment of how climate change could impact the availability of water and investigate our options for adapting to these possibilities.
Focus on examples from Scotland and the rest of the UK within the wider European and global contexts.
Learn examples of good practice from around the world, with regular contributions from students outside of the UK about their local experiences.
Delivered by a tutor with over 18 years' experience in water resources regulation, flood management, and climate change assessment, this course is ideal if you are: employed by, or a consultant for, water-related industries, including public water supply, hydropower, beverages (including brewing and distilleries), and agriculture; an environmental manager, or working in a technical role such as water resource practitioner, hydrologist, or environmental scientist; or a government agency employee, working for environment and conservation agencies with a remit covering the water environment.
The module learning outcomes for this CPD are:
Professionals working in water management can use the learning outcomes to develop their own working practices.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnc-wildlife-and-conservation-management:
Course code 244D
Land use impacts and human activity have put pressure on the world’s environments.
Do you want to help Scotland lead the way against climate change and transition to a net zero economy?
This course will help you to become multi skilled, have a broad understanding of nature and climate issues and prepare you to pivot towards to the large range of employment opportunities in the fast-growing and dynamic green economy.
The learning will encompass important activities such as peatland restoration, habitat monitoring, conservation, land management and sustainable wildlife management.
You might want to embrace this learning experience to get into new employment or develop new workplace skills to use in your current employed role.
Either way our curriculum team are a leading force in contemporary land-based education, and they will guide you through the most direct route to achieve your goals.
You’ll gain:
You will also study between 4 and 5 of the following optional modules:
Number of hours per week indicates the total number of hours you should dedicate to the course, which includes time spent in lectures and your own time spent on individual study and research
For all the information and how to apply please use the following link Funding - Scholarships, Bursaries, Awards and Discretionary Funds - UHI Scholarship Fund
Students will have the opportunity to take part in study trips and the UHI Integrated Land Use Conference during the course.
UHI works with partners to subsidise the cost of travel and accommodation for students participating in these activities.
However, students may incur some travel and accommodation expenses with these trips.
Once you have successfully completed this course, you might like to consider careers in the broader wildlife and conservation management sector, for example as:
You may wish to progress from HNC Wildlife Management and Conservation to year two of courses such as:
UHI is committed to putting our students in the best position to develop their workplace skills.
This course will allow those in rural and island areas to best respond to evolving nature and climate crises, sustaining and securing the future of these communities.
Charlie Main is a lecturer for the HNC Wildlife and Conservation Management.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/hnd-wildlife-and-conservation-management:
Course code 344D
Land use and human activity have put unprecedented pressure on the world’s environments.
Could you help Scotland lead the way against climate change and transition to a net zero economy?
Gain a broader knowledge of nature and climate issues, on this HND Wildlife and Conservation Management, as we enable you to pivot between key areas and opportunities in this fast-growing and dynamic green economy.
Explore the role of public engagement in planning and conservation, take part in study trips, and gain unique insights into the current challenges facing conservation and wildlife managers.
Use wildlife management techniques in a work-based setting and gain greater understanding of a broad range of UK species, habitats, and their management, as you examine the physical landscape, the processes which created it, and the effects on the distribution of habitats.
Learn important fundamentals such as peatland restoration, habitat monitoring, conservation, land management, and sustainable wildlife management, as you embrace this learning experience to take your first steps into this field or develop new skills to use in your current role.
Either way, our curriculum team are a leading force in contemporary land-based education: let us help you find the most direct route to achieving your goals.
For entry to year 1, HNC Wildlife and Conservation Management :
Year 1 of this course is:
You may wish to progress from the HND Wildlife and Conservation Management to the following courses:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/courses/pda-workplace-assessment-using-direct-and-indirect-methods-scqf-level-8:
Course code 94X1
The PDA in Workplace Assessment Using Direct and Indirect Methods will develop your knowledge and skills in preparing for, planning and carrying out assessment of individuals in the workplace.
You will use  direct methods such as observation, examination of work products (both created and not created at the time of observation) and questioning.
You may also be involved in authenticating indirect evidence such as discussion with candidates, testimony of others (witnesses), examination of candidate statements, assessment of candidates in simulated environments, recognition of prior learning (RPL), otherwise known as the accreditation of prior achievement (APA).
This award provides you with the skill set and qualifications to assess within your candidate's own subject area, so they may gain certification of competence.
This PDA will be studied as part of ongoing staff training to allow you to support staff studying on VQ programmes.
You may wish to progress to our PDA Internal Verification of Workplace Assessment .

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/schools:
Are you at school and wondering if university is the next step for you?
UHI offers qualifications at all levels from access courses to PhD, so you can start where you need to and progress as far as you want.
Are you leaving school shortly and wondering if university is the next step for you?
UHI offers over 100 degree courses, with flexible access routes, so you can start where you need to and progress as far as you want.
School leavers >
If you are in S4, S5 or S6 you can study with us while you are still at school and access a wide range of subjects and qualifications including foundation apprenticeships, Highers, degree and vocational courses.
Senior phase pupils >
Whether you are moving on with National 4s, National 5s or Highers or no formal qualifications, UHI has a course for you!
Start in September 2025 >
We work with secondary schools across Scotland and welcome the opportunity to engage with guidance teachers and pupils.
Guidance teachers >
Information to help your young person and their move to university
Information for parents and guardians >

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/studying-at-uhi/interested-in-applying/join-us-from-school-college-or-returning-to-study/coming-from-college:
Are you studying on a Higher National Certificate (HNC), Higher National Diploma (HND), or other suitable qualification at college or are you already a UHI student?
Did you know these qualifications can provide you with a route forward to studying for a degree?
College can be a useful pathway to university particularly if you haven’t met the initial degree course entry requirements or you are perhaps returning to education after a break.
UHI has a range of opportunities for college students to progress on to our degree programmes, through formal agreements which are often referred to as 'articulation agreements' and articulation is simply when a student enters a degree at year 2 or 3 by using an HNC (year 2) or HND (year 3) which they have completed at college first.
Using your HNC or HND for advanced entry into years 2 or 3 helps students to complete a 4-year undergraduate honours degree without 'wasting' any time or Student Awards Agency Scotland ( SAAS ) funding.
In some cases you may have to meet course-specific requirements, such as taking specified options on your HN programme, and some courses may require presentation of a portfolio or an interview.
Taking that next step to university is exciting, but we understand it can be daunting, particularly if you are moving to us from a different area.
We have many years of experience in helping students transition from college to university and have a range of support services in place should you need it.
If you are studying with us on one of our many HNC and HND courses then you can progress onto a degree course with us.
Chat with your programme leader for further information.
When applying you may make use of our Recognition of Prior Learning process to apply based on your HN qualification for entry to year 2 or 3 of one of our degrees.
Simply complete your application form stating the year of entry you are requesting.
We can usually offer year 2 entry for an HNC, or year 3 entry for an HND if your HN qualification and your new degree course are in similar subject areas.
Your programme leader will get in touch for evidence of previous learning, usually a certificate and transcript.
A number of HN qualifications have already been assessed for entry to degree courses .
Entry to year 2 of our degrees requires an HNC with 120 credits.
Please note if you have a 96 credit HNC then you may still be able to articulate to year 2 by taking bridging units/RPL (assessment of other formal or informal learning you may have completed).
Entry to year 3 requires an HND with 240 credits.
Additionally some HNC/D courses require bridging study to ensure you have certain specialist content.
Your programme leader will advise you when you apply.
Browse our course list
UHI has a range of opportunities for college students to progress on to UHI degree programmes, through formal agreements with the colleges below.
These are often referred to as 'articulation agreements' and articulation is simply when a student enters a degree at year 2 or 3 by using an HNC (year 2) or HND (year 3) which they have completed at college first.
This helps students to complete a 4-year undergraduate honours degree by going to college then university.
By using advanced entry, it takes the same amount of time to achieve a degree, which means you don't 'waste' any time or SAAS funding by studying at college first.
In some cases you may have to meet course-specific requirements, such as taking specified options on your HN programme, and some courses may require presentation of a portfolio or an interview with a UHI tutor.
Specific requirements are listed beside the course list for each college.
Please note, even where we have a formal agreement in place, this does not guarantee any student a place on any degree at UHI, but we strongly encourage college students to apply .
You should apply for your degree course through UCAS in the usual way and our admissions team will decide on which students are made offers.
UHI has an articulation agreement with the SQA which covers all suitable HNC and HND qualifications.
UHI welcomes applications from all students and former students on HNC and HND courses for degree entry (e.g.
year 1, 2 or 3), even where a formal agreement is not in place.
Applications are considered on a case-by-case basis.
DOWNLOAD ALL HNC AND HND ARTICULATION LINKS
For further information please contact our course information line or call us on 01463 279190.
OTHM is a UK based Awarding Organisation regulated by Ofqual (Office of the Qualifications and Examinations Regulation).
Students studying suitable OTHM qualifications may apply to UHI
Successful completion will meet the university’s standard academic entry requirements.
However, each applicant will be subject to individual assessment and other entry requirements which may affect university entry.
These articulation routes have been agreed with OTHM .

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/studying-at-uhi/interested-in-applying/join-us-from-school-college-or-returning-to-study/recognition-of-prior-learning-and-credit-transfer:
We are committed to widening access to higher education and encourage applications from prospective students who do not have formal entry qualifications.
As part of this commitment, the university supports the principle of recognising prior learning wherever it occurs.
Provided the learning can be assessed, it may be recognised and credit awarded to a formal programme of study allowed.
We also encourage prospective students to apply for recognition of previous formal qualifications for credit toward specific qualifications with us.
If you have any questions, please contact Student Engagement .
RPL Guide
RPL - informal learning guide for potential students
If you have already taken part in learning, either formal for which you have received a certificate, or informal learning (e.g.
work or community based) that you did not receive a certificate for (i.e.
it was not a formal course of study), then you could use this learning to gain SCQF credit towards a programme with the university.
You could claim credit towards certain modules, or an entire year(s) of study.
The first step is to speak to admissions staff for your new course.
They will consult with academic staff to advise you whether your prior learning would be suitable for RPL, although they cannot give an indication on whether you will be successful.
The application will be considered by the staff.
If successful, the university will inform you of your award of credit.
Regardless of the method used to present the evidence, it is important to consider how well it relates to your application.
You may also want to assess your own prior learning according to these principles, which are also used by those who will assess your application:
If you are awarded credit, this is applied in 20 credit multiples as this corresponds to the credit value of UHI course modules.
Prior formal and experiential (i.e.
not certificated, or work - based) learning may be considered for RPL.
Your claim can include a mix of formal and experiential learning.
Ideally applications should be made in advance of the commencement of studies.
In circumstances where this is not possible, you may enter the chosen programme on the understanding that if your application for RPL / Credit Transfer is unsuccessful you must complete any modules for which accreditation was not granted.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/studying-at-uhi/short-courses:
If you’re looking to expand your skillset or make the break into a new career, then we can help you make that change.
Get in touch with us
Work with us
international online professional courses

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/studying-at-uhi/interested-in-applying:
If this is your first time studying at university level, or you've been away from study for some time, we have a range of exciting undergraduate courses to choose from, many of which are directly linked to industry and business, giving you the best chance of a great career.
Study at UHI from access-level courses, undergraduate and postgraduate degrees, to PhD!
Join us in our stunning landscapes, set among the mountains and forests, on islands and the mainland and in historic towns and cities.
Learn in small, focused class sizes, where learning means more:
Start in September >
Whether you've recently left school, are returning to education or want to learn new skills, we have a course for you!
Start your student journey with UHI in January.
Start in January >
Join us at an open day to find out about courses we offer and to visit our campuses.
You will find out about student life at UHI, get help with your application, and learn about funding and support.
Open days and information sessions >
Not sure what to study?
Find out about our courses.
Courses explained >
Need help with you application?
Get advice on how to apply and tips on writing your application.
How to apply >
Whether you are a school leaver, college leaver, or are returning to study, we have options for you.
Join us from school, college or returning to study >

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/studying-at-uhi/interested-in-applying/start-in-september-2025:
Join us in our stunning landscapes, set among the mountains and forests, on islands and the mainland, in historic towns and cities, in hi-tech research parks, and in high-quality learning spaces.
Learn in small, focused class sizes, giving you more time with teaching staff.
Our unique location and culture inspire our curriculum.
You can study a specialist course in an incredible location: study golf in Dornoch, archaeology in Orkney, adventure studies in Fort William, or Gaelic on the Isle of Skye and the Hebrides!
Discover a degree with industry placements and projects such as a placement at Belladrum Tartan Heart Festival or a project designing instrumentation for a gin distillery!
Or take a year in industry, with geography or environmental science .
Places are still available via clearing for courses starting in 2025!
Although applications are now considered on a first-come, first-served basis, we still have places available.
Apply via clearing 2025
48 campuses welcoming 40,000 students
Welcoming students from 50 countries
From adventure studies to archaeology and Gaelic to golf, explore unique courses:
Subject areas >
Would you like some help with your application?
Or maybe you are unsure about the application process and what happens next?
Clearing opened 5 July 2025, and is your way of applying to university if:
Clearing >
Choose from over 100 degrees across 9 subject areas :
At UHI we strive to put you at the centre of what we do:  we want you to have a supportive community and a safe, friendly place to learn.
Even before you apply, UHI’s expert and approachable staff are on hand to help you understand the support that will be on offer.
Student support >
Not only are we the 2nd most affordable university for postgraduate study in the UK*, but we also offer additional funding support:
Scholarships, funds and bursaries >
Student life
	>
Plan your visit to our amazing locations:
Open days:
Online events:
Open days and information sessions - come and see us!

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/studying-at-uhi/interested-in-applying/courses-explained:
We are an integrated university that offers a broader range of options than any single college or university can.
This means we can support you from access to undergraduate study all the way to PhD.
Undergraduate
Postgraduate
Professional Development CPD
Professional certificates
Access
SWAP
HNC and HND
INTERACTIVE SCQF QUALIFICATIONS FRAMEWORK

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/studying-at-uhi/interested-in-applying/student-life-accommodation-funding-and-more:
We offer purpose-built student accommodation featuring en-suite single bedrooms, with shared kitchen and living areas, or studios with in-room cooking facilities.
We offer Graduate for Life careers advice and support services, access to placement and work experience opportunities and academic learning focused on employability.
All you need to know about financing your studies.
UHI offer scholarships, discretionary funds and bursaries to our students throughout the academic year.
Find out what's happening on campus, off campus, up a mountain, performing at music festivals or canoeing to class!
Get involved at UHI's student association , explore sport at UHI or take part in volunteering .
We pride ourselves on putting students at the heart of everything we do.
You will be supported throughout your studies by approachable expert staff, whether you choose to study on campus or online.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/studying-at-uhi/already-applied/when-will-i-hear-back:
We aim to provide a decision or interview according to the dates provided below, but there may be circumstances where a decision will take longer, for example, if an application for Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) is made as part of the application process.
See notes below.
If you applied via UCAS:
**Please be aware that for some courses where selection events are held, and where a large volume of applications are received (PGDE, Nursing, Oral Health Science) that a slightly later response date may apply, but you will receive a decision by the UCAS deadlines of 14 May/17 July 2025**
The dates / deadlines / interview / notification periods discussed on this page rely on the applicant:
The university aims to acknowledge an application within 5 days of receipt.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/studying-at-uhi/already-applied/receiving-your-offer:
When you hear back from us, you will receive one of the following offers:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/studying-at-uhi/already-applied/how-to-accept-your-offer:
The way you will accept your offer is different depending on how you have applied.
If you do not accept your offer by certain dates, your UCAS application will be declined by default :

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/studying-at-uhi/already-applied/admissions:
We operate a fair and open admissions process committed to equality of opportunity and non-discrimination.
The university considers all applications on merit and on the basis of ability to achieve, without discrimination on grounds of age, disability, gender identity, pregnancy and maternity status, race, religion and/or belief, sex, sexual orientation or socio-economic background.
The university welcomes applications from all prospective students, including care leavers and those who act as carers, and aims to provide appropriate services to students with learning support needs or disabilities.
Admissions Policy (Higher Education)
The broad definition of a care leaver (by the Care Leavers Association) is "Any adult who spent time in care as a child (i.e.
under the age of 18)".
You have the opportunity to let us know you are a care leaver on your application form, this allows us to put resources in place to support you.
The university aims to make an offer of a place to care-experienced applicants who meets the minimum entry requirements for the course to which they have applied, where this is possible.
Carers Trust Scotland define a carer as ‘anyone who cares, unpaid, for a friend or family member who due to illness, disability, a mental health problem or an addiction cannot cope without their support.’ If you let us know you are a carer, we can provide support to assist you through your application and during your university career with us.
We publish entry requirements on each individual course web page, indicating the minimum entry qualifications required to succeed on the programme.
Please check your chosen course for required grades and further details.
These qualifications do not need to have been gained in one exam sitting.
The university operates a ‘Contextualised Admissions’ policy and practice which formalises our existing inclusive approach to admissions.
This means that we use disclosed data relating to personal circumstances and background to identify applicants for additional consideration during the admissions process.
Our current contextualised indicators, identified from submitted application forms, are:
This data is used to assess an applicant’s previous attainment and potential to succeed in higher education.
This can apply to applicants who do not meet the published entry requirements for the course, or where there is competition for places.
International students can check a breakdown of entry requirements by country to understand the equivalent qualifications, and our English language requirements at each level of study.
We accept a wide range of equivalent qualifications and offer a range of different entry point into higher education.
We are able to offer opportunities to most applicants regardless of their entry qualifications and experience, and consider each applicant in this way.
We recognise that there are a variety of routes through which qualifications may be gained and ways in which readiness for higher education study may be demonstrated.
If you are in any doubt about your entry qualifications, or for guidance as to subject choice if you wish to prepare yourself for a particular area of study, contact our course information line .
Please see our admissions statement with reference to Curriculum for Excellence .
We also make extensive use of recognition of prior learning (RPL) (both formal credit bearing and experiential) in our admissions processes.
View terms and conditions for applicants and students

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/studying-at-uhi/already-applied/get-ready-for-student-life:
We are excited to welcome you at one our campuses (or online!) soon.
If you have any questions before you start your course, please get in touch .

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/studying-at-uhi/already-applied:
We are delighted to welcome you at one our campuses (or online!) soon.
Have questions about your application?
Find out:
When will I hear back?
Find out about our admissions process:
Admissions process >
Sometimes things go better or worse than planned so it’s a great idea to know what your options are.
Get ready for clearing >

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/studying-at-uhi/how-much-will-it-cost:
The amount of money you have to pay for your course depends on a number of factors.
These include where you come from, where you live and which course you want to study.
Various scholarships, discretionary funds and bursaries are available to our students throughout the academic year.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/studying-at-uhi/how-much-will-it-cost/funding-your-studies/bursaries-and-scholarships:
UHI Rebel Fund – £2,500 for students (individuals or groups) to deliver a creative sustainability project tackling real barriers to sustainable living.
Barns-Graham Assistance Award & Barns-Graham Travel Scholarship – £1,000 & £1,500 available for fine art students.
Rural & Islands Bursary Fund – £1,000 for students in remote or isolated areas.
Davidson Nairn Charitable Trust Scholarship – £1,000 for students from Nairn or Nairnshire.
During your studies with us there are many scholarships, bursaries, awards and discretionary funds available to you to during the academic year.
You can view all of our current funding using the A-Z of funding below or use the filter to see which ones may be relevant to you.
If you are a Scottish student, it is SAAS (Student Awards Agency Scotland) who will be able to assist with any queries about funding your course, or your Student loan .
You can also find a LiveChat function on their website, if you require additional advice.
You can find information about financing your studies in our Funding section, including useful links for non-Scottish students, and the Student Information Scotland website (Scottish funding for education) has additional guidance.
More information on the Discretionary Fund and how to apply .
If you are struggling financially, or are unsure about managing your finances as a student, please visit our Money Matters webpage.
The team at HISA have also put together a list of external bursaries and scholarships for students, which can be found on their website .
If you are aware of a fund or scholarship which is not listed here, please send us a message .
We offer a 10% tuition fee discount for taught postgraduate courses and postgraduate research programmes for alumni who have graduated with an undergraduate or postgraduate taught degree.
Read more on the Alumni discount page .
The filter will show options that may be relevant to your circumstances.
Remember to check the detailed eligibility information in each funding opportunity before applying.
For details of how your data will be handled please read the privacy notice which accompanies the funding application form.
Please note external funds will be subject to their own specific data protection processes.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/students/support:
UHI were the first institution in Scotland to adopt the Student Partnership Agreement, which sets out how students and staff can work together to improve the student experience.
Here you will find information, resources, guidance, and links across all the areas of support you may need as an enrolled student with us.
Click on the sections below to find out more.
Get in touch with your campus support team.
Red Button Let us know how we can improve our services, or tell us what you like about UHI
Green Button Free, confidential, online counselling service for all UHI students
Inclusive and learning support >
Funding and financial support >
Support to keep you safe >
Support with your studies >
Support for your wellbeing and mental health >
Each campus has expert staff who can offer support and guidance on a wide range of topics including finances, disability support, learning support, and personal issues.
Student support contacts >

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/studying-at-uhi/how-much-will-it-cost/funding-your-studies:
It's important to plan how you will finance your studies well in advance of starting your course.
Funding sources available to you depend, in the first instance, on where you come from, but also include funding for disabled students and part-time students.
Residents of Scotland studying on undergraduate programmes in Scotland normally have their fees paid by the Students Awards Agency for Scotland (SAAS).
SAAS also provides access to student loans and a range of other support – Young Students' Bursary, Independent Students' Bursary, Additional Loan and Supplementary Grants.
Read the SAAS Funding Guides to find out more about all the funding support available, including eligibility criteria.
You can also download the SAAS Toolkit for 2023-24, which provides information and links for support and funding, including guidance for accessing your SAAS account and how to get in touch.
You can find details of the specific funding available to Nursing and Midwifery students .
If you are classed as being ordinarily resident in England , Wales or Northern Ireland , you will be required to pay tuition fees for each year of your course.
Read about our RUK fees here .
You will be entitled to take out an additional student loan to cover tuition costs, and this will be repaid, along with any other student loans, once you have graduated.
The amount you pay back depends upon the date you started your studies.
Please visit Student Finance England , Student Finance NI , or Student Finance Wales for further information on what you would pay back.
As the UK has now left the EU, the Scottish Government announced that tuition fee support will come to an end, for students starting in 2021/22 and beyond.
Further information on changes to tuition fees and additional scholarship support for EU students will be made available as soon as possible.
If you are from a country outside the EU/EEA it is likely that you will be classed as an international student and will have to pay international student fees .
You can also contact SAAS to find out if you are eligible for any funding.
Disabled Students' Allowance (DSA) funding can be used to cover additional study-related expenses that arise specifically as a result of your disability.
It is available to full-time Higher Education students and part-time students studying at least 50% of a full-time equivalent higher education course.
Student services staff at your enrolling campus can advise you on the DSA process and the appropriateness of making an application to your funding body.
Further information is available from our DSA page.
If you have a disability or additional support need please contact the campus where you plan to be/are enrolled as soon as possible, where student services staff will be pleased to discuss your requirements.
If you are a Scottish student studying part time on an undergraduate programme in Scotland may be eligible to have your fees paid by the Students Awards Agency for Scotland (SAAS), through the part-time fee grant.
Read the SAAS part-time funding guide to find out more about who qualifies for this funding support.
You can get up to £200 towards the cost of a training course with an SDS Individual Training Account (ITA).
Eligible Scotland domiciled students studying full time on a taught postgraduate diploma or masters may be able to access loans up to 10,000 from the Student Awards Agency for Scotland (SAAS).
This comprises a tuition fee loan up to £5,500 and a non-income assessed living cost loan of £4,500.
Part-time students undertaking any taught postgraduate diploma or masters who meet the residency eligibility can apply for a tuition fee loan up to £2,750 per year.
Part time students are not eligible for living cost loans.
If you are from the rest of the UK and meet the eligibility requirements you may be able to apply for tuition fee and living cost support from the relevant student finance department:
If you are starting a doctoral degree and live in England or Wales, you could get a Postgraduate Doctoral Loan to help with course fees and living costs:
Funding FAQs
Further Education
Higher Education
Part time
When to apply
Childcare

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/facilities:
Are you looking for an event venue in the Highlands and Islands, Moray and Perthshire?
Our helpful and dedicated events staff would be delighted to hear from you to help create the perfect event, please contact the campus you are interested in booking with.
For general enquiries, please get in touch with us .
We have conference and event spaces across the Highlands and Islands, Moray and Perthshire.
Events and conferences
	>
UHI has meeting rooms across Scotland.
Whether you require a space for a meeting, event, or a weekly booking, we have a space for you.
Meeting rooms
    >
UHI offers a focused curriculum linked to our rich and unique region.
Many of our specialised facilities across our campuses are open to business:
Specialist facilities
	>
We have sports facilities in Elgin and Perth whether you want a one-off event or a regular space.
Sports facilities
    >

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/campuses/other:
In addition to our Campuses and Learning Centres, we also deliver learning in facilities shared with wider organisations.
We deliver our BSc Nursing degree from UHI House .
We also deliver our BSc Nursing degree from UHI Outer Hebrides .

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/research-enterprise/postgraduate-research:
Through independent study and an extended period of supervised research, a postgraduate research degree results in a thesis which "makes a distinct contribution to knowledge and affords evidence of originality as shown by the exercise of independent critical powers."
Undertaking a research degree is a big decision, one which requires commitment to stay engaged and motivated.
Research degrees at masters level involve independent in-depth study, either on your own research topic or a set project.
While developing specialist knowledge, you'll build transferable skills that will put you in a strong position for further research study and your future career.
A PhD is a high level, globally-recognised qualification, rooted in original research and is rigorous and demanding.
Most students are passionate about their area of interest and pursue a PhD as a result of their academic curiosity and desire for research excellence.
Undertaking research full-time or part-time by distance offers a more flexible way to achieve a PhD or MRes degree with UHI, wherever in the world you are based.
However, this study mode is not suitable for students who hold, or intend to hold, a Student Route visa.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/business/ric:
Knowledge Exchange is the process which connects practitioners from academic research, business, public agencies and communities to share knowledge, innovate and grow their impact.
Taking part in knowledge exchange activities drives innovation.
Our Knowledge Exchange Team’s objective is to help business and public agencies find innovative solutions and grow, whilst expanding our own research and KE activities.
The team will endeavour to build a long-term relationship with you through research collaboration, consultancy and partnership.
The breadth of our expertise is reflected within our research specialisms and we can offer the following support for your business :
Applied Drama
Vindolanda and the Roman Army Museum
Wastewater Remediation
Global Seaweed
A novel natural antibody-based therapy for liver cancers

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/research-enterprise/case-studies:
The university interacts with various agencies, communities and companies across the Highlands and Islands and globally.
These case studies are a selection of some of our recent interactions that show the level of local and international collaboration, the real world impacts of our research and gives an idea of the breadth of expertise across our research centres.
Our Research Database has details on all our researchers, research publications and activities.
The information is updated regularly by the researchers themselves giving a live and accurate record of our research capability.
To search for expertise, look for particular researchers or filter details by research area go to;
UHI Research Database
More information on our research centres and social media activity :

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/research-enterprise/ref/2021:
Nearly three quarters of UHI research submitted for review to the 2021 Research Excellence Framework achieved the top two grades: world leading or internationally excellent.
UHI has consolidated its research standing and strong performance from 2014, showing improvement in several areas.
This gives us a solid platform for future research development.
UHI has a unique place and deep roots in our communities.
Our research is more connected to their needs and that helps us excel in areas which are important to them, including their future development.
We use our local expertise to collaborate and engage with researchers and projects across the world.
This result demonstrates exactly how UHI should underpin economic activity in our region.
We are making a real difference to our environment, to the business community and to people’s lives – not just in our communities, but across the world.
The Research Excellence Framework provides accountability for public investment in research, demonstrating its benefits and impact.
Results are also used to inform future allocation of research funding.
Case studies
Notes :

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/research-enterprise/res-themes/silk/cultural-ecosystems:
Research within this thematic group is interdisciplinary, situated at the interface between the natural and social sciences and the historical disciplines.
Geographically, a particular focus is on the particular land or seascapes and ecosystems that characterise the Highlands and Islands: uplands, freshwater, coasts, and marine environments.
Our research is not only conducted within the region, but in comparable regions in other parts of Europe (particularly northern Europe) and worldwide, and with a wide range of collaborators.
Research themes addressed by members of the group include:
Research in these subjects is carried out at the following centres:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/research-enterprise/cultural/institute-for-northern-studies:
We are internationally renowned for our innovative undergraduate and postgraduate teaching and research programmes in Culture and Heritage, Highlands and Islands Literature, Scottish Heritage, Viking Studies and Island Studies.
INS led the UHI Area Studies submission to REF 2021 which came 1 st in Scotland overall and 1 st equal in the UK for research impact.
About Us
Contact us
Research Projects
Contact us to find out how to apply .
Phone: 01856569300
Email: ins@uhi.ac.uk
Get in touch with us if you want to discuss applying for courses, if you are thinking about research or consulting us on a project.
Follow us on Facebook and Twitter
Contact us
    >
INS led the UHI Area Studies submission to REF 2021 which came 1st in Scotland overall and 1st equal in the UK for research impact.
REF Results 2021

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/research-enterprise/res-themes/silk/identity-and-heritage-:
Heritage is an integral part of identity at local, regional and national level.
Heritage can include cultural legacy – our history, accumulated material culture, social customs and artistic achievements – but also natural heritage: the geology and topography of the landscape, flora and fauna of a region.
For historical and cultural geographers, heritage is about the implications of the deployment and utilisation of the past in the present: the legacy of places, monuments and cultural artefacts (e.g.
songs, poetry paintings and photographs).
Debate about the construction and interpretation of heritage, both natural and cultural, is a further research area.
The management of heritage resources powerfully overlaps with issues of social inclusion, access to and control over assets more generally in contemporary rural communities, both in our own region and beyond.
Within this theme, the Centre for Recreation and Tourism Research (CRTR) is a well-established research centre in Fort William and provides research and consultancy services, on subjects as diverse as adventure recreation, marine tourism, tourism product development and digital marketing.
Staff members at the centre work closely on a number of initiatives with the School of Adventure Studies , the UK’s leading provider of adventure and marine tourism education, and other UHI partners, such as the Centre for Mountain Studies .
Research themes addressed by members of the SILK group include:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/research-enterprise/res-themes/silk/sustainable-communities:
The broad remit of this thematic group includes the critical analysis of issues relating to the sustainability of rural communities, especially island, upland and coastal communities.
Research interests include rural change, such as demography and migration, climate change and mitigation, transport, and social or cultural dynamics.
Topics of contemporary relevance also include land use and land reform, as well as the socio-economic contribution of social enterprises and commercial SME.
There is a commitment to participatory approaches to community engagement, for example in relation to health care, conflict management, and the utilisation of natural resources.
The design, promotion, and delivery of health and wellbeing aspects of rural community development also feature strongly in the work of the group.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/research-enterprise/res-themes/silk/clan:
Community landownership is an endogenous approach to sustainable development which has gained significant attention over the past thirty years.
The mechanism has grown and developed from its roots in rural Scotland to having become a flagship policy of successive governments, forming a central tenet of the Land Reform and Community Empowerment agendas, and supported by significant legislative and funding support.
Despite having been extended to urban communities, these mechanisms have arguably had, and continue to have, the greatest impacts in rural settings where communities have taken over the management and governance of entire estates.
Ownership has resulted in the devolution of funding and decision-making levers to the local level, empowering communities to pursue development priorities driven by, and accountable to, local residents.
This is especially powerful in communities in the Highlands and Islands region, where centrally-conceived national policy may not be appropriate or relevant to diverse and differentiated community needs.
The impacts of community landownership can be transformational for such ‘remote’ and island communities, with recent research illustrating the effects on service provision, rural health and climate action.
UHI has been at the forefront of investigating and promoting this topic throughout its existence, with staff and students across the partnership remaining prominent in research, teaching and knowledge exchange.
While research in this field is becoming more widespread, it remains somewhat fragmented, reactive and lacking in coordination or strategic direction.
The Community Landownership Academic Network (UHI CLAN) was launched in 2021 in order to strategically organise the future of research in the field through a formal network structure.
From the outset, the network sought to integrate with community landowning organisations themselves, seeking to serve the sector through conducting relevant and necessary research, the findings of which will be communicated in accessible ways.
The formal aims of the network are:
The network seeks to collaborate across disciplines and universities, embracing a multifaceted disciplinary and methodological approach to filling gaps in knowledge from different angles.
In order to devolve and decentralise responsibility for these different approaches, individuals can volunteer to lead sub-groups focusing on particular aspects of the field.
To date, the sub-groups comprise:
For more information, to be added to the mailing list, or to discuss sub-themes, please email bobby.macaulay.perth@uhi.ac.uk .
To stay up to date with events, meetings, research and other topics of interest, follow @UHI_CLAN on Twitter.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/research-enterprise/res-themes/silk/pedagogy:
This thematic group addresses dimensions of research pertaining to pedagogic practice and innovation, and seeks to support the development of pedagogic research as an emerging area of research within the university.
Within the context of the larger cluster of related disciplines that make up the Society, Identity, Landscape and Knowledge research cluster this extends to the pedagogical opportunities for communicating education about sustainability studies, and indeed for studying decentralised opportunities for supporting sustainable communities through innovative pedagogy.
Of particular interest within the broader context of the university is how technology can be used to facilitate educational activities between staff and students located across a very wide geographical area, and where ‘alternative solutions’ are often the main, or only, opportunities for many rural communities who are distant from the tutors and other place-based educational resources.
The university is also taking forward a number of major educational research projects in areas that include e-textbook production and research-based learning and teaching.
Dimensions of educational research addressed through current PhD projects, and taught postgraduate education programmes, include:
Educational research is also central to the work of the university's Learning and Teaching Academy (LTA).
The LTA provides opportunitites to engage in, further develop and share educational research, including workshops, short courses and scholarships.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/research-enterprise/res-themes/silk/agronomy-and-agriculture-institute:
The Agronomy and Agriculture Institute collaborates with farmers, growers, end-users and research organisations to improve the efficiency and resilience of crop production systems in the Highlands and Islands.
Agronomy and Agriculture Institute East Road Kirkwall Orkney KW15 1LX
t: 01856 569000 agronomy@orkney.uhi.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/research-enterprise/res-themes/silk:
This grouping of research activity brings together researchers from diverse disciplines under the broad remit of Society, Identity, Landscape and Knowledge, or internally as 'SILK'.
Our research is characterised by an inter-disciplinary perspective with a particular emphasis on the social sciences and humanities subjects.
It takes as its focus human-environment interactions, cultural landscapes/ecosystems, societal sustainability and heritage and the use of different pedagogical approaches.
There is an emphasis on remote and rural communities, and the distinctive cultural and natural landscapes of the Highlands and Islands of Scotland and the peoples of this region; in the past, the present and into the future; and, in placing the Scottish context in a global perspective.
Key research themes Society and Landscape are:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/research-enterprise/res-themes/centre-for-rural-health-sciences:
Based in the Highlands and Islands of Scotland, we have a campus in Inverness and Stornoway on the Isle of Lewis.
We are part of the Health, Social Care and Life Sciences subject area.
Our vision is to improve the health and well-being of the people of the Highlands and Islands through excellence in rural health and social care education, research and knowledge exchange.
We are dedicated to creating a supportive and collaborative environment by valuing our staff, students and communities.
Our mission is to:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/research-enterprise/res-themes/health/biomedical-sciences:
Part of the Institute of Health Research and Innovation, the Division is based at the Life Sciences Innovation Centre and An Lòchran on Inverness Campus.
The Division is home to the Free Radical Research Facility, and has research expertise in Genetics and Immunology, Lipidomics and Medical Nanotechnology.
We conduct extensive research, primarily into the causes and consequences of diabetes, but also into a wide range of clinical conditions; most notably cardiovascular diseases, inflammatory diseases, and cancer.
Led by Professor Ian Megson , the mission of the Division is to undertake world-class research into the causes and treatment of diabetes and the cardiovascular diseases that the condition precipitates.
The division also undertakes a range of contract research to support commercial entities of any size.
Contact the Biomedical Sciences team by email
Explore our research areas in more detail by clicking on the below theme boxes:
Free radicals play crucial roles in human physiology and disease progression.
Our focus is on measurement of a wide range of metabolites and markers in biological samples associated with oxidative stress and inflammation.
Groups in this department investigate the molecular and cellular basis of disease, including genetic, epigenetic, proteomic and immunological factors.
This includes the study of schizophrenia, diabetes, heart disease and cancer (specifically, melanoma).
Identifying the role of biomarkers in disease progression is crucial in helping to identify diseases early and to discover new, effective treatments.
The team uses mass spectrometry as a powerful tool to allow simultaneous measurement of numerous chemical messengers involved in disease evolution.
The very large datasets are then disentangled by complex bioinformatics and statistical analysis to inform clinical and laboratory research and drug discovery.
Nanotechnology is defined as the branch of technology that deals with dimensions and tolerances of less than 100 nanometres, especially the manipulation of individual atoms and molecules.
Research is being built in nanomaterials for biomedical applications as well as photonics laboratory for optical spectroscopy and bio-photonics.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/business/ric/research-specialisms/healthcare-innovation:
Helping students, staff, and businesses develop their innovations from concept to commercialisation.
Life sciences innovation is about making a positive impact on people’s lives.
As part of the Faculty of Health, Science and the Environment, we work with businesses, staff and students to help turn ideas into new businesses and technologies.
Whether you want to solve a problem by creating a business, or are simply interested in learning about innovation, we’re here to help.
Download our latest Project portfolio to find out more about our projects.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/research-enterprise/res-themes/health:
Activities within the Institute can be broadly divided into three main themes: Disease Management, Smarter Health, and Rural Health and Wellbeing.
Impact is central to our philosophy and we work closely with a wide variety of UK and international companies to ensure rapid translation of our technologies and services into products that will improve healthcare within the region, with worldwide applicability.
A key feature of the Institute is collaboration: our researchers work closely together across disciplines and actively seek collaborations with external organisations worldwide, with a dedicated Healthcare Innovation Team helping teams address commercialisation matters.
Typically, we have over 60 ongoing projects, most of which involve partners at other institutions in Scotland, UK, Europe or beyond.
The Institute of Health Research and Innovation researchers belong to one of the following:
Part of the university’s Health, Social Care and Life Sciences subject area we bring together health related researchers and teaching at UHI.
The Division of Biomedical Sciences is home to the Free Radical Research Facility , and has research expertise in genetics and immunology , Mass Spectrometry And Bioinformatics Core Facility , and includes the Active Health Exercise Lab (AHXL).
Together the departments undertake a range of activies related to active health and are able to support commercial work of any size.
Led by Professor Ian Megson , the mission of the division is to undertake world class research into the causes and treatment of diabetes and the cardiovascular diseases that the condition precipitates.
The Division is based at the Centre for Health Science in Inverness, and conducts extensive research, primarily into the causes and consequences of diabetes, but also into a wide range of clinical conditions; most notably cardiovascular diseases, inflammatory diseases, and cancer.
The knowledge exchange activities for the Institute are coordinated by a dedicated Healthcare Innovation Team that is responsible for all aspects of health-related innovation and commercialisation, including industrial liaison, partnership agreements and intellectual property management.
You can contact them at innovation@uhi.ac.uk
The Department of Nursing and Midwifery has close links with the Applied Life Studies Subject Network and sits within the overall structure to maintain close links with both the research-based divisions and teaching practice.
Close links between researchers in the Institute and teachers in the wider School of Health, Social Care and Life Sciences is a vital element of university research, ensuring that students at every level are exposed to the very latest advances.
Helping to fight the global COVID-19 pandemic: COVID-19 represents an unprecedented global challenge and cutting-edge research is at the forefront of the battle against the virus.
UHI researchers have been active throughout in helping to fight the disease and investigate its long-term consequences.
View our live COVID-19 research projects
Our Institute Research Strategy
Download our:
HEALTH AND LIFE SCIENCES INNOVATION PROJECT PORTFOLIO (PDF)
Our Health researchers were submitted to REF2014, as part of a joint submission with The Robert Gordon University.
Our REF2021 results

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/research-enterprise/res-themes/mese/understanding-environmental-change:
Marine and environmental research is the focus for the Scottish Association for Marine Science UHI (SAMS UHI) in Oban.
SAMS staff are committed to increasing our knowledge and stewardship of the marine environment through research, education, maintenance of research infrastructure, knowledge exchange and enterprise.
Activities encompass the entire breadth of marine science, following three major themes: Ocean Systems; Dynamic Coasts and the Blue Economy.
SAMS UHI is a Collaborative Centre of the Natural Environment Research Council, hosting the Culture Collection of Algae and Protozoa and the Scottish Marine Robotics Facility.
The Environmental Research Institute (ERI) , based at UHI North Highland in Thurso, is involved in research to address environmental issues to advance understanding of the sustainable use of the earth's natural resources.
ERI's research priorities include: renewable energy; climate change; ecology; biogeochemistry; emerging contaminants; biotechnology; and bio resources.
UHI Shetland is conducting research in fisheries and aquaculture science to contribute to the assessment, management and sustainable harvesting of important marine species, commercially important finfish and shellfish species, marine planning, policy and advice.
The Environmental Research Institute (ERI) , based at UHI North Highland in Thurso, is involved in research to address environmental issues and advance understanding of the sustainable use of the earth's natural resources.
ERI's research priorities include: Peat lands research, Water and Carbon research; flow country and water remediation ; relations to climate change; ecology; biogeochemistry; emerging contaminants; biotechnology; and bio resources; renewable energy - it's impacts on the environment; Tidal resource & wave climate assessment; ecology; emerging contaminants; tidal stream monitoring and modelling; Currents, sedimentation and associated ecological change.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/research-enterprise/res-themes/mese/energy-and-natural-resources:
The university is uniquely placed to make an important contribution to global research into new energy sources.
Located in an environment that boasts internationally important landscapes and seascapes, and can be considered the primary European geography for renewable energy developments.
The university has world-class facilities and multi-disciplinary research teams who are focusing on, and providing solutions to, the big energy challenges of our time.
Our research teams have a special depth of understanding of the key issues surrounding the interface between energy generation and natural environments; be they marine, coastal or terrestrial.
Read more about our energy activities
The Agronomy Institute at UHI Orkney provides a research facility for the development of plants and plant-based products, focusing particularly on the Highlands, Western Isles and Northern Isles.
The institute has a wide portfolio of research covering: cereals; biomass for fuel crops; plants for high value extracts; fruits and berries; and biodiversity.
We have an impressive track-record of collaboration with commercial companies which includes distilleries, bakeries, watermills, breweries, a wine company, pharmaceutical and natural products companies, a housing association and a seed company.
As a result of commercialisation activities with several of these companies, the Institute also has experience of developing and managing supply chains.
UHI Shetland is conducting research in fisheries science to contribute to the assessment, management and sustainable harvesting of important marine species, commercially important finfish and shellfish species.
Marine Planning, Policy and Advice Section is relevant to how resources are utilised within regulatory frameworks and environmental impacts.
UHI Shetland is the site and lead partner in the collaborative, a project testing the commercial viability of a mussel hatchery in Scotland.
With research centres across the North and West coasts of Scotland, we are at the centre of the aquaculture industry with facilities and expertise directly on the water’s edge, enabling us to be very responsive to the needs of industry.
We undertake interdisciplinary research covering stock health and welfare, sustainable aquafeeds, environment-aquaculture interface, stock improvement and management, socio-economic linkages and diversification of aquaculture practices.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/research-enterprise/res-themes/mese/people-and-the-environment:
At our Centre for Mountain Studies , based at UHI Perth, an international group of scientists is undertaking research in Scotland, Europe, and at the global level.
A major focus is on policies for sustainable mountain development, and providing the evidence base for these.
The centre hosts the UNESCO Chair in Sustainable Mountain Development and its world-class research underpins the MSc Sustainable Mountain Development .
Based at UHI Inverness, the Institute for Biodiversity and Freshwater Conservation (formally the Rivers and Lochs Institute) works to develop integrated, multidisciplinary research projects to more rapidly advance understanding of Scottish freshwater ecosystem and to research the nature and extent of freshwater biodiversity in lochs and rivers in Scotland.
We work with local rivers trusts, fisheries boards, landowners, industry and the public sector to provide scientific support to managers to protect and conserve biodiversity conservation and ensure its exploitation is sustainable.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/research-enterprise/res-themes/mese/aquaculture:
Funding Available - Aquaculture Student Support (Deadline 24 October 2025)
The UHI Aquaculture Hub brings together over sixty aquaculture researchers, educators, consultants, students, and facilities across nine UHI partner colleges.
Together, we create and support innovation in aquaculture .
We work collaboratively at local, national, and international levels.
Our knowledge exchange provides positive outcomes for the businesses , students , and communities in our region and beyond.
Find out more about the Aquaculture Hub >
Training and Skills Development in Aquaculture >
Aquaculture Science >
By understanding the underlying hormonal mechanisms, it's possible to create optimal conditions for oyster reproduction and larval development.
Our research into oyster hormonal regulation and its response to environmental cues has opened pathways for improving oyster breeding and aquaculture practices.
Neuroshell >
The SeaLiceELS project conducted by UHI represents a significant step forward in understanding the biology and behaviour of sea lice early life stages, and its implications for aquaculture.
The results and insights obtained from this research offer valuable guidance for improving fish farm management and reducing the impacts of sea lice.
Sea lice Early Life Stages (SeaLiceELS) >
GlobalSeaweedSTAR aims to secure the future of the seaweed industry by focusing on disease prevention and biosecurity, thus ensuring that seaweed continues to provide economic opportunities and support for millions of people in developing countries.
GlobalSeaweedSTAR >
Hebridean aquaculture in 2050: Towards a resilient future.
UHI NWH, Stornoway
13 March 2025.
An engaging workshop focused on tackling the challenges faced by aquaculture producers in the Outer Hebrides and collaboratively shaping a resilient and sustainable future for the industry.
Connect with us today
More Aquaculture Contacts - Education, Research and Local Contacts
    >

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/business/ric/research-specialisms/water-quality:
Scotland is fortunate to have a significant and high-quality water resource.
Water is of central importance  to  the  economy  of  Scotland,  both  as  a  sector  in  its  own  right  and  as  a  critical  resource for  the  manufacturing,  agriculture,  food  and  drink,  tourism  and  energy sectors.
The Scottish Government is committed to making Scotland a ‘Hydro Nation’.
Our Water Quality Innovation Group (WQIG) seeks to address contemporary challenges associated with water quality preservation and improvement, drinking water provision, wastewater treatment and resource management, particularly in rural and sparsely populated regions of Scotland, and in similar regions elsewhere in Europe and around the world.
The WQIG draws on complimentary expertise from around the Highlands and Islands in the following principal areas: Water Analysis; Monitoring and Assessment; Water Treatment and Remediation; and, Integrated Catchment Management.
Our team has a successful track record of working with businesses and stakeholders in key sectors including Food and Drink, Healthcare, Energy and Aquaculture.
We aim to help our partners and collaborators develop innovative new products and services; to help them meet policy and regulatory challenges; to advance responsible water stewardship; and to advance the low carbon economy.
If you have any enquiries regarding the specific services we can offer, please contact waterhub@uhi.ac.uk
WaterHub Strategy 2023-2025

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/research-enterprise/res-themes/mese:
The University of the Highlands and Islands is at the forefront of research into climate change, marine science, aquaculture and renewable energy, with much of our work addressing the social, cultural and environmental impacts of development.
While our work targets global challenges it is intrinsically based in and inspired by the region.
Our research divides into three interdisciplinary environmental science themes, click to explore the theme:
Understanding and Responding to Environmental Change
People and the Environment
Energy and Natural Resources
Within the cluster there are also four groups focussed on providing answers for specific industries as well as a network for graduate student support.
In addition we are currently developing our engineering expertise, details of which will be updated here very soon.
View a diagram describing the interactions of the cluster with our internal groups and colleges.
UHI staff and students (sign-on required) can access a series of short seminars by MESE cluster researchers.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/archaeology-institute:
The University of the Highlands and Islands Archaeology Institute is a world-class teaching and research organisation dedicated to advancing our understanding of the historic environment through the creation, interpretation and dissemination of archaeological knowledge.
Events
Conferences
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
Archaeology Orkney Blog
+44 (0)1856 569 000 or email archaeology@uhi.ac.uk .
UHI Orkney East Road, Kirkwall, Orkney KW15 1LX

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/research-enterprise/cultural/centre-for-history:
Internationally renowned for research, teaching and community engagement in Highland, Scottish and wider world history.
Burghfield House Cnoc-an-Lobht Dornoch IV25 3HN
history@uhi.ac.uk
UHI Centre for History - a history department committed to its students and wider community.
We offer almost twenty Undergraduate and Postgraduate taught programmes with a range of flexible study options.
We also have a thriving Postgraduate Research community .
Our research covers a broad range of topics, times and places.
Read more about our projects and alliances , and explore our historically important resources including the Napier Commission reports .
Find out about our growing community of staff, students and connections with the wider world, and read our latest newsletter .
Find details on the events we run , both at the Centre for History and with our partners.
You can also find the archive of recordings from our History Talks Live series , where expert speakers offer their insights on a wide range of topics of interest to the historically-minded.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/research-enterprise/res-themes/humanities-and-arts/creative-industries:
Artist researchers contribute to a vibrant culture of research led teaching in the undergraduate and postgraduate curriculum at Moray School of Art, Scotland’s fifth major art school.
Research active staff operate across a broad spectrum of fine art and textiles practice with research interest in a range of areas including:
Moray School of Art also leads the Between places visual research research group, initiated by visual practitioners and academics across the university in the Cultural and Creative Industries.
The group aims to undertake innovative enquiry into practices and ideas relating to place, landscape and language, alongside contemporary approaches to the art in and of the Highlands and Islands.
The dispersed nature of the research group resonates with our interest in place as an embodiment of possibility: place as a juncture or nexus of people, culture, environment engendered by geographies of inward and outward migration.
The Centre for Island Creativity is an initiative to support research and knowledge exchange in the creative industries in remote and rural areas, established in 2015 with the support of Shetland Islands Council, Highlands and Islands Enterprise and Creative Scotland.
Based in UHI Shetland the Centre will undertake interdisciplinary research and act as a focal point for the University’s teaching, knowledge exchange and engagement with the creative industries.
The centre works collaboratively in some of the same spaces as Moray School of Art but overall has interests that reach across the disciplines studied university-wide, namely:
With multiple streams of research related to music, performance and the music industry this busy group of researchers, business analysis and practising musicians are very well connected across the sector read more on the Perth music research website.
Some recent projects include:

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/research-enterprise/res-themes/humanities-and-arts/literature:
Literature at UHI brings together researchers from across the Highlands and Islands who explore literary texts, adaptations, drama and non-fiction.
We are based at UHI Inverness, Perth and Outer Hebrides , and our lecturers are active researchers, teachers and practitioners.
We promote literary research across our undergraduate and postgraduate degree programmes, and we work with local communities on a variety of public engagement programmes.
We are also involved in knowledge exchanges with museums, archives, libraries and heritage bodies.
Our research explores a number of key themes and issues: we have strengths in particular periods (Renaissance to Contemporary), genres (Science Fiction, Nature Writing, Spy Fiction, Drama, Cinema, Adaptations, Gothic, Poetry) and themes (gender, identity, place, theory, philosophy, history).
Some of our staff are also active creative writers and theatre practitioners.
In particular, our staff are involved in research about
We see our undergraduate and postgraduate students as 'junior researchers', and they receive hands-on digital skills training and research experience on our projects.
They are involved in ‘ Macpherson’s Ossianic Legacy ’, the ‘Hub for the Study of British Identities’ and ‘Meet the Books: Highlights from the Fraser Mackintosh Collection’.
Project Director: Dr Valerie Beattie
Email: valerie.beattie.ic@uhi.ac.uk T: +44 (0)1463 273 393

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/research-enterprise/res-themes/humanities-and-arts/language-sciences-institute:
The Language Sciences Institute (LSI) aims to connect innovation and expertise in research and learning and will use the collective power and multi-disciplinary strengths of the UHI academic network to reconfigure current approaches to the revitalisation of minority languages.
With a particular focus on the traditional Gaelic speaking communities of Scotland, the LSI will build on the work of the Soillse network through the legacy CIALL project.
The distinctive features of the LSI are:
It is envisaged the research legacy of the Soillse partnership will enable the LSI to provide support in creating a sustainable future for the Gaelic language and culture in Scotland.
Future policies and strategies that are articulated through National Language Plans, and the Language Plans of public bodies, need to be grounded in the reality of the Gaelic language condition.
The LSI recognises this is particularly important in those locations where Gaelic is still spoken as a vernacular language by a significant proportion of the community.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/research-enterprise/res-themes/humanities-and-arts:
The Humanities and Arts Research Cluster (HARC) brings together researchers from diverse disciplines within the humanities and arts.
The cluster is a collaboration of staff engaged with scholarly and creative engagement with the past and present, rooted in an understanding of the regional heritage and context of the Highlands and Islands.
The research, knowledge exchange and research activities of HARC members have a particular emphasis on people and communities, culture and heritage, Gaelic, creativity, migration and memory within a rural context.
In conjunction with the localised focus is an awareness of the parallel and interlinked global issues that are faced by rural communities that are informing broader cultural challenges and opportunities.
Our activities can be explored in the other pages in this section but can be broadly said to cover:
If you are interested in joining a hub then please email one of the leads listed below.
Leads: Dr Linsey Hunter , Dr Shane McLeod
The Medieval Studies Hub (MeSH) brings together UHI medievalists across multiple disciplines to share research and ideas, and to forge new collaborations.
Along with regular meetings to discuss research and opportunities, MeSH will facilitate seminars, study skills sessions and conferences.
Links:
Viking Burials in Scotland | Landscape and burials in the Viking Age
Following the journey of a kilted Viking king by a Scottish loch
Lead: Dr Andrew Jennings , Associate Professor in Island Studies
UHI with its island-based colleges and researchers, undertakes very important island-centred research.
The Island Hub aims to promote and develop this research across the partnership, and beyond to the island communities themselves, both within and outwith Scotland.
Institute for Northern Studies Public events and seminars
Institute for Northern Studies Islands Matter Webinar Recordings
UArctic | Thematic Network on Northern and Arctic Island Studies Research
Leads: Dr Sean McLaughlin , Gareth Whitehead
The UHI Music Research Hub aspires to establish a pioneering academic centre for innovative music research, fostering interdisciplinary collaboration and methodological advancement.
This initiative aims to serve as a nexus for scholars and musicians, facilitating the development of novel approaches to music studies and promoting cross-disciplinary knowledge exchange.
The hub's comprehensive scope encompasses diverse subdisciplines, including creative practice, audio engineering and acoustics, sonic studies, music industries, and music education.
Lead: Dr Kathrin Zickerman , senior lecturer in History
The Renaissance and Early Modern Research Allliance (REMRA) is a multidisciplinary research hub which comprises around 20 research active staff and PGR students from five different UHI Centres and Institutes.
The group meets regularly to further individual and joint research and hosts events like round tables and conferences.
It is designed to support research in a meaningful way and to present UHI's research activities to the wider academic world.
REMRA is also closely linked to the new PGT programme Early Modern European Studies  (EMES) which will launch in 2025/26 and as such will support UHI's strong research and teaching linkages.

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/research-enterprise/expert:
Researchers at UHI create their own online profile detailing their expertise, activities and publications - these profiles can be accessed on our Research Database .
View researcher profiles and publications
This institution-wide database, updated on a daily basis by the researchers themselves, provides a live record of our research capability and is useful to a wide range of visitors looking for information on particular researchers, publications, conferences, activity and research impact.
If you are a UHI researcher and want more information about research systems available through the university, or have newly joined the university and want to request access to research systems, please see the research systems webpages.
We also have a facility to search for researchers who are available to comment to the media on their area of specialism - go to our Find an Expert section to begin your search.
If you wish to talk further about your requirements, please email Communications .
If you are a staff member and wish to join the list of experts, please email Communications

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/research-enterprise/ref:
During March 2021 we successfully completed our REF2021 submission.
We are now in the REF2029 cycle.
The REF represents the single biggest routine assessment exercise that is conducted in and across UK Higher Education, and it is generally regarded by institutions as being the most important.
Through the REF, each institution’s claims to research-related excellence and reputation are rigorously assessed by teams of leading academic peer reviewers and external ‘users’ of the institutions’ research products.
The result of the excercise determines research funding to universities from the UK government for a six year period.
View UHI REF2021 assessment results
UKRI maintains a database of 1000s of case studies submitted to REF - they are available to search, read and download from the REF website
Full information on REF, policies, requirements and guides for staff are now all available on SharePoint, use the link button below (network logon required):
REF SHAREPOINT AREA

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/research-enterprise/centres:
We operate across the region through a partnership of twelve colleges and research institutions (Academic Partners).
Each Academic Partner is an autonomous body, has its own character and contributes to the organisation, giving a breadth and diversity that adds immeasurably to the learning and research opportunities we offer.
Academic Partners have their own micro-strategies and employ the majority of the research staff, make their own investments and exploit local autonomy in creating research activity within the wider university strategy.
This breadth and diversity of the university partnership adds strength and impact to the main research themes at the local level, often based on our unique regional characteristics.
It permits a growing cross disciplinary approach which enriches our research and allows our university to collaborate at the highest level.
Explore the individual units listed left (summary of capabilities and contacts) or use the links below to go direct to the relevant website;
1 - UHI Perth Aerospace, Engineering, Mountain Studies, Culture & Heritage 2 - SAMS Marine Biology, Smart Observations, Algae & Protozoa, Aquaculture 3 - UHI NWH (West) Adventure tourism, Adventure recreation, Maritime and Coastal tourism and Tourism Product Development 4 - Sabhal Mòr Ostaig Gaelic language and culture 5 - UHI Inverness Forestry, Rivers & Lochs, Rural Studies, Psychology 5 - Institute of Health Research and Innovation Biomedical, Nursing and Rural Health Divisions 6 - UHI Moray Art & Textiles, Computing 7 - Centre for History Irish, Scottish and British Diasporas Maritime History in the North Sea, Cultural Alliances 8 - UHI NWH (Hebrides) HebMarine, Socio-Economic analysis, Archaeology, Meteorology.
9 - Environmental Research Institute Environmental Contamination, Water Quality, Renewable Energy and the environment 10 - UHI Orkney Archaeology, Nordic Studies, Agronomy 11 - UHI Shetland Aquaculture, Fisheries, Marine Policy, Nordic Studies, Archaeology
All of our research centres are listed to the left and each page contains a summary of the main activities and contacts for each centre.
However, if you cannot find what you are looking for then please contact the Research Office and we will do our best point you in the right direction.
EMAIL: RO@uhi.ac.uk TEL: 01463 279000

New sentences found on https://uhi.ac.uk/en/research-enterprise/postgraduate-research/grad-school:
The Graduate School provides support for all research degree students and everyone involved in the postgraduate research journey, including supervisors, examiners and colleagues across the UHI network.
Our key aim is to enhance the research student experience and we seek to create a vibrant postgraduate community and develop a strong research culture in which students can flourish and interact with the wider UK and international academic community.
Staff are always happy to hear from our research students: gradresearch@uhi.ac.uk
Our other responsibilities include:
Personal and professional development plays an important part in enabling researchers to reach their full potential.
We offer training opportunities for postgraduate research students to help their research degree experience, brush up on essential skills, and to interact and socialise with other students from across the network.
The annual postgraduate student research conference and the biennial staff/student conference are important events for research students.
Hosted across the breadth of UHI, all students are invited to attend to share experiences, communicate their work through presentations and posters, learn new skills, and importantly to spend time with other UHI researchers, students and staff.
In addition, there is access to training and events run by the Scottish Graduate School for Arts & Humanities , the Scottish Graduate School for Social Sciences and the Marine Alliance for Science and Technology for Scotland .
Graduate School Manager - Dr Christine Hutchison
Christine manages the day-to-day work of the Graduate School which covers all areas of postgraduate research student administration, development, policy, and regulation.
Graduate School Programme Officer (Registry) - Joanna Jervis
Jo is responsible for postgraduate research student data management and administration in the Graduate School, working closely with students and their supervisors to support postgraduate research studies from application to completion.
Contact any of the team by email:
GRADRESEARCH@UHI.AC.UK
Graduate School Programme Officer (Training) - Caitlin Crawford
Caitlin is responsible for developing and maintaining the Graduate School’s portfolio of training and development opportunities for research students and supervisors and managing the administrative duties relating to research student progression.
Also oversees the development and organisation of the annual UHI Research Student Conference and jointly organises the biennial UHI Research Staff and Student Conference.
Graduate School Administrative Officer - Gillian Adamiec
Gillian provides support to Christine, Jo, and Caitlin, assisting with core activities and managing the administration of the Higher Doctorate degree.
Head of Postgraduate Researcher development - Dr Clive Fox
Clive is the Graduate School's academic liaison representative, supporting research students and supervisors across the Partnership.
The UHI Graduate School's SharePoint pages are now available for research student supervisors and staff looking for more information about the postgraduate research provision.
The Code of Practice for Research Degrees and the Postgraduate Research area on Brightspace remain the go-to places for staff/student procedural guidance and forms, with the content of this new site providing complementary information, templates and checklists to assist with, for example, candidate interviews and new research student local inductions.