# Site: https://www.ulster.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 497
# --------

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk:
Elsewhere on Ulster
Come and see why we are the UK and Ireland University of the Year, as voted by Times Higher Education Awards 2024.
Funded by the Department for the Economy get the expertise to develop your career.
Choose from various subjects across industries.
You may be eligible to get your course fees funded by the Department for the Economy for select Masters and PG Certs taught in Derry~Londonderry.
Check out your options for September 2025.
Everything you need to know for starting university.
Times Higher Education Awards 2024
Ulster University Belfast is situated in the artistic and cultural centre of the city, the Cathedral Quarter.
Live and Study in Belfast
The feeling of community at our campus makes for a warm and welcoming student experience.
Live and Study in Coleraine
Ulster University Sports Village is a hub for sporting excellence in Northern Ireland, and home to the University’s world-class indoor...
The Home of Sport
Our Derry~Londonderry campus gives you a city experience while retaining an intimate, relaxed vibe.
Live and Study in Derry~Londonderry
Arts and culture
Applications are now open for our PhD scholarships.
Push the boundaries of knowledge and make a real impact.
Ulster University supports the SME regional economy with strong research partnerships.
In the top 10% of UK Universities for Research Impact, we're committed to transformational research.
Twitter
Facebook
YouTube
Instagram
BlueSky
TIKTOK
© Copyright Ulster University 2025.
Ulster University is registered with the Charity Commission for Northern Ireland (NIC100166).

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study:
Whether you are choosing your course for the first time or you’re considering transferring from another university, see what Ulster University has to offer.
In this section
We have a wide range of courses and places available at Ulster.
Our team is available to discuss what is best for you and how to apply to Ulster.
Part-time undergraduate study offers flexibility for those with other commitments.
You can apply through our direct application form or contact our team for more information.
Explore our diverse postgraduate study options to enhance your career or pursue your interests.
Apply for full-time study through our direct application form, or reach out to our team for personalized guidance on studying at Ulster University.
Discover our part-time postgraduate programs for flexible learning alongside your commitments.
Explore our diverse career-focused postgraduate options for skill development or career change.
Reach out to our team for personalized guidance on studying at Ulster University.
Our cutting-edge research creates real-world impact daily.
Explore our postgraduate research opportunities, both funded and self-funded, at The Doctoral College to contribute to meaningful advancements.
Boost your personal and professional growth with our skill-enhancing short courses, many of which are recognized by professional bodies and meet employer CPD requirements.
Apply directly through our course pages or get in touch with our team for personalized guidance on studying at Ulster University.
Over 4,000 students have earned online degrees and short course qualifications from Ulster University.
Our eLearning courses provide flexible learning, allowing you to study at your own pace, anywhere, and anytime.
If you're contemplating transferring to Ulster University from another institution, we're here to discuss your options and available pathways.
Explore our course catalogue to find the program that aligns with your current degree.
Feel free to reach out to our admissions team for any inquiries.
Our admissions team will be happy to answer any queries.
Please contact us on:
Join our diverse community of international students, with representation from over 70 nationalities, where commitment to excellence, learning and growing is at the heart of all we do.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/global:
Celebrate with us and save up to £4,200 on your studies.
For international (non-UK and ROI) students starting January 2026.
Starting at Ulster this September?
Find all the info, tips, and resources you need to get ready for your university journey.
With a history dating back to 1865, Ulster University has been awarded ‘University of the Year 2024’, the most prestigious title of all by Times Higher Education.
Choose to study at Ulster and you will be rewarded with first-class teaching in state-of-the-art facilities supported by outstanding pastoral care.
We are proud to welcome international students from more than 70 countries across the globe.
Choose Ulster University for your undergraduate or postgraduate programme.
Whether you are looking for undergraduate or postgraduate study, Ulster University is an excellent choice for international students choosing to...
For International Students
Learn more about the Scholarships and discount opportunities available to International Students.
English Language Requirements for admission at Ulster University.
Learn about entry requirements for international students.
Find out whether you need a visa to study in the UK, which type of visa you need and how to apply for one.
Browse our affordable accommodation options for all campuses!
Find out the latest information on tuition fees for international students.
The Integrated Foundation Year is an embedded foundation year to a bachelor degree.
Read student information specific to your country.
Get ready to join UU.
Spend a semester (or two!) sampling student life in Northern Ireland.
Study Abroad Programme - receive step by step guidance on how to apply, module selection, visa advice, accommodation and much...
Essential dates and deadlines for the Academic year.
Live, learn and socialise in Northern Ireland for one semester or for a full academic year.
Choose modules from a range of subjects on our Study Abroad programme.
Interested?
Contact the Study Adviser for your chosen modules of interest for more information.
Our Global Buddy scheme is a mentoring scheme where we match new international students to existing Ulster students.
Everything you need to know as an International student at Ulster University.
International students share their Ulster University experience.
Interested in exploring a partnership with us?

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/staff-links:
Links to Ulster University academic and corporate websites.
Ulster University staff can login here

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/student:
Your hub for info, support and tips for making the most of life at THE University of the Year.
Everything you need to know about international student life at Ulster.
Take a look at our Instagram and TikTok.
Clubs and societies

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/departments:
Ulster university departmental directory.
Key reporting relationships
Explore our updated high-level organisation chart, designed to provide clarity on portfolio areas and key reporting relationships across the university.
The Vice-Chancellor is responsible for leading the overall strategic direction and growth of the University.
Find out about Academic Business Development
The Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences offers first class teaching in our world class facilities across our four...
The Faculty of Computing, Engineering and the Built Environment consists of four Schools, offering industry-informed, professionally recognised courses at both...
As a leading provider of health-related education, with almost 6,500 students and approximately 250 academic staff, we offer an extensive...
Ulster University Business School is the 6th largest business school in the UK and delivers over £40m of GVA to...
The University’s Global Engagement Office is responsible for overseeing all aspects of International student’s life at Ulster as well as...
Find out about the Marketing and Communications team at Ulster University.
Responsible for ensuring that the University’s governance processes are robust, efficient and fit for practice.
Find out more about Employee Experience at Ulster University.
Find out more about Partnerships and Services at Ulster University.
Student Administration is committed to providing a professional service in order to provide the best end-to-end experience for applicants and students...
E&C comprises units covering academic services, business engagement and employability/careers provision.
Working with staff from across the institution to continuously enhance student outcomes and the wider student experience....
Library services provide resources to support learning, teaching and research.
The team will assist you with ebooks as well as...
Delivering services to support students health and wellbeing including mental health advice and counselling, support and funding for disability and...
The Doctoral College is responsible for the Management and Development of Postgraduate Research at Ulster University; Administration of new Programmes...
The Innovation & Enterprise team supports the development of Research Impact at Ulster University.
It manages knowledge exchange, consultancy and...
The Research Development team is responsible for horizon scanning for funding opportunities.It provides support within Faculties to ensure high quality...
The Research Governance team is responsible for the Management of Research Regulation, Governance and Ethics; Intellectual Property Management and Protection...
The Research Management team is responsible for Post Award Research Contract Management, Management of Research Finance and Administration of Research...
The Research Performance team is responsible for the Management of the Research Excellence Framework (REF); Research Strategy and Performance Management...
The University’s Development and Alumni Relations Office is responsible for building and maintaining relationships with our graduates and friends....
The Confucius Institute team at Ulster University.
The Ulster University Economic Policy Centre is an independent economic research centre whose aim is to produce evidence based research...
The Campus Life team delivers high-quality professional services that create vibrant campus communities and positive student, staff and visitor experiences....
The Strategic Policy Unit at Ulster University.
The Regional & Community Engagement team at Ulster University.
The Finance Department is responsible for providing financial advice and support to faculties and departments, managing the University’s income and...
Digital and Information Services is a significant University professional services department with responsibilities for library, reprographics, digital and information services....
Led by Michael Fitzpatrick to develop, maintain and operate the university estate to provide a world-class physical environment to inspire...
Supporting the development, implementation and delivery of the University's aims and ambitions expressed in our Strategic Plan....
Find out about Risk & Resilience at Ulster University.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/ds/students/student-portal:
Provides easy access to all your Ulster online services including email, OneDrive, Blackboard and much more.
The Student Portal provides easy access to your online services such as email, file storage, Blackboard learning environment and the Digital Services IT Service Desk.
The University will communicate with you via the methods below.
Please check these regularly:
Access the Student Portal
Note: When you click on some resource tiles within the Portal (e.g.
Results and Library Databases) you will be prompted with an additional ' verify login ' screen.
On this verify login screen please use your Student B-Code and Network password .
Don’t panic
Your attendance record won’t be affected.
Help and useful tips are available on the attendance area of the student guide.
Student email, OneDrive cloud storage and Office Web Apps.
Student records system where you can check personal details, programme of study, examination details, tuition fees information, email address and initial password etc.
University online learning environment which hosts lecture notes, class discussions, module resources and electronic resources.
Used by both distance learners and on-campus students.
The Blackboard support team can also assist with Turnitin and Studiosity queries.
Students can log calls to the Service Desk and access the Self-Help Knowledge Base.
A range of software is available to current students including Microsoft 365 and SPSS Statistical Software.
Advice and Guidance on using the Print, Copy, Scan services available to students at the University.
The Portal provides access to applications and contents via the use of tiles.
The screenshot below highlights key areas of the dashboard:
You may be prompted to log in to some of the resources linked within the new portal.
If this is the case please ensure you use your B-Code and network password.
Should you have issues or queries please contact the Digital Services IT Service Desk at servicedesk@ulster.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/news:
Read the latest news from Ulster University.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/events:
Where thought leadership, expert commentary, research and opinion come together.
Browse Events
September 2025
Find out more about undergraduate study at Ulster.
Open Days
Key dates for your diary.
Date of attendance, examinations and vacations across the academic year.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/undergraduate:
Whether you know what you want to study, or are just considering your options, we have everything you need to make the decision that’s right for you.
Whether you know what you want to study, or are just considering your options, find out everything you need to know to make the decision that’s right for you.
We know choosing the right degree subject can be daunting.
Explore our subject videos to see what’s right for you.
Did you know that the *cost of living in NI is amongst the cheapest for students across the UK and Ireland?
* A single person estimated monthly costs without rent.
1 university, 3 amazing campuses
The Belfast campus is situated in the heart of Belfast city centre.
This stunning newly renovated campus is located in the bustling Cathedral Quarter that is renowned for its culture, art and nightlife!
Coleraine is just minutes from stunning coastal scenery with the some of the best beaches and surfing spots around.
The laid-back vibes and feeling of community at this campus makes for a warm and welcoming student experience.
The second-largest city in Northern Ireland and home to the famous Derry Girls, this city of culture could be your new home.
With a cosmopolitan vibe all year-round, Derry~Londonderry is a truly stunning campus.
Useful links and resources for current students at Ulster University.
UU Students
Information and advice about course fees and a guide to budgeting for your living costs, as well as sources for...
Northern Ireland enjoys safe, low cost living, and boasts vibrant cities and unspoiled coasts and countrysides.
Cheaper tuition fees, study now-pay later loans and affordable living are just some of the reasons you should consider Northern...
Find the Ulster University course linked to your current college course, and the support we offer associate students.
Career-building, life-building part-time undergraduate degree courses that work with your lifestyle.
If you have a question for us, fill in the form and we will be in touch.
Ulster University Sports Services offers state of the art facilities and programmes for athletes of all ages.
Sports Services membership...
Access expert advice, endless opportunities and a range of on campus and online services that help you develop your employability...
UUSU are here to improve the lives of students by being an inclusive and supportive community where students can fulfil...
At Ulster University we want to help our students as much as possible.
We provide a range of services to help our students in their time of need.
Find out about our services below.
It's important to know where you can access information, advice and support when you need it.
Student Wellbeing
Get involved in our student-led mental health campaign.
Find out how we can help you with your disability as a prospective student.
Find out more on how you can improve your mental health and wellbeing.
What you need to know to prepare you and your child for university.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/postgraduate:
Explore our range of postgraduate programmes including Masters degrees, postgraduate certificates, diplomas and CPD programmes available at Ulster University.
Choose from our wide range of business-friendly Masters, PG diplomas and PG certificates.
Accelerate a career change with our conversion courses.
No background in the subject area required.
Funded and Self-Funded PhD studentships.
Find out how our short courses can support your personal and continuing professional development (CPD).
Funded by the Department for the Economy, we are offering a range of FREE courses to ensure you have the skills and expertise to develop your career.
Are you an NI or ROI resident?
Get the expertise with a Masters, Postgraduate Certificate or short course, funded by the Department for the Economy.
Study a postgraduate programme, from a Masters in Law (LLM) to Artificial Intelligence (AI).
We are here to make sure you choose the course that best meets your needs.
Our postgraduate prospectus gives you a taste of life and study at Ulster University.
Tuition fees are available on the course pages and there are a number of financial support options available.
Students domiciled in Northern Ireland, Republic of Ireland and UK students can apply to Student Finance NI for a Tuition Fee loan of up to £6,500 (subject to eligibility).
If you are an Ulster University graduate you could be eligible for a 10% fees discount .
See if you can access financial or other forms of support, including mentorship to excel in your studies by searching our postgraduate scholarships .
Get ahead with our programmes providing Northern Ireland's most in demand expertise.
Are you a graduate of Ulster University?
Did you know you could be eligible for a 10% fees discount .
Business Benefits of Postgraduate Study
For information tailored to your need, including entry requirements, visas, accommodation, and more visit our Ulster University Global page.
Thinking of Postgraduate study?
What can we help you with?
Helpful hints as you prepare your application.
We understand that everyone's circumstances are individual to them.
You may be returning to education, having to make time around...
Part-time study
There is a broad range of support available for students with disabilities and additional study needs.
Gary Doherty, MSc Management graduate.
Julia Nikolaus, MSc Remote Sensing and Geographic Information Systems graduate.
Help from Ulster University customer support team.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/doctoralcollege/postgraduate-research/apply:
The University admits researchers on the basis of a policy of equality of opportunity and welcomes applications from all sections within the community.
Applications are made by using the online application system - the right information and and advice to make a successful application.
Advice and guidance for applications from International applicants.
English language proficiency is a vital skill whilst undertaking a research degree.
Applicants are therefore expected to provide evidence of their proficiency in English by way of an approved test.
Details on how to submit an application for Exchange/ Occasional study to Ulster.
Information for applicants currently registered or previously registered at another institution.
The University welcomes applications from persons with physical disabilities.
Guidance on how to apply for re-admission to a previous research programme at Ulster.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/short-courses:
We offer a range of expertise building short and CPD courses, available throughout the year.
Find out more about the benefits of staying connected after you graduate and other services we offer alumni of Ulster University.
This discount applies to full-time and part-time postgraduate taught programmes only.
Thinking of a Short or CPD course?
We're here to help you every step of your way.
If you have any queries about the application process do...
Awarded when a combination of short courses worth 60 credit points in total have been successfully completed.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/part-time/undergraduate:
Part-time undergraduate degree courses to fit your lifestyle
Studying part-time gives you the opportunity to work alongside study.
Part-time study gives you greater control over your learning journey.
You can balance work and other commitments around your study time.
Our suite of part-time courses covers a broad range of subject areas, designed with convenience and flexibility in mind.
Teaching can be delivered on campus, entirely online or a combination of both, depending on the course selected.
A part-time qualification can boost your career prospects and your bank balance.
1 Fit your studies around your job, social life or other commitments.
2 Take control of your time – earn your degree at your own pace with flexible study.
3 Get help with costs.
Student loans and grants can help cover your fees.
4 Boost your career with qualifications that employers look for.
5 Enjoy all the same support and benefits as full-time students.
Our courses are professionally relevant, meeting industry demands.
We work closely with employers to develop our curriculum and have achieved extensive accreditation from a range of professional bodies, across our suite of over 80 part-time courses.
Part-time undergraduate study
Find out about loans and grants
With part-time study, you can apply for a tuition fee loan to support the cost of your studies.
You may also be entitled to apply for help with living costs.
Applying is easy
Follow our handy guide to find out how to apply for part-time study at Ulster University.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/part-time:
Increase your earning potential and employability with a part-time course.
You can balance work and other commitments and study at a pace that suits you.
Our suite of part-time courses covers a broad range of subject areas and is designed with convenience and flexibility in mind.
Teaching can be delivered on campus, entirely online or a combination of both.
The Centre for Flexible Education provides personal and professional development courses across a range of subjects.
Find out how you can apply to Ulster University.
Find out more about fees for part-time study.
Available for students from Northern Ireland and EU.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/elearning:
Join over 4,000 students who have graduated from Ulster University with an online degree or short course qualification - eLearning courses offer flexibility enabling you to study at your own pace, any place and any time.
All eLearning courses are delivered fully online and there is no attendance necessary at Ulster.
Our eLearning students are very much considered part of the Ulster University family and have access to the facilities and services available to all students.
Your guide to eLearning

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/prospectus:
Download our current undergraduate and postgraduate prospectus or create your own based on the subjects and areas that interest you.
Your Ulster undergraduate adventure starts here.
Request a UK Undergraduate Prospectus.
2025/26 Postgraduate Prospectus for Business
Your Ulster postgraduate adventure starts here.
Download a 2026/27 International Undergraduate Prospectus
The University guide for parents and guardians of prospective students provides a comprehensive resource for navigating the higher education journey.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/courses:
Filters
Showing 1
                        -41 of 
                      1,109 results Clear all filters
Get your prospectus
Explore ADR methods as effective, client-focused alternatives to litigation for resolving disputes.
Key information:
Access to Justice through legal education.
A fast-track qualification for non-accounting graduates who want to pursue a career in accounting or finance.
A fast-track qualification for non-accounting business graduates who want to pursue a career in accounting or finance.
An innovative suite of subject pathways that offer you excellent employment opportunities within the growing professional service areas.
Developing future financial leaders through expertise in accounting and finance.
Developing financial leaders through expertise in accounting and finance.
A unique accounting and finance course enabling you to take your first steps to become a future business leader.
If you are considering a career in the professional world of law or accounting, why not consider both through this innovative programme.
Unlock your future potential: Study Accounting and Marketing Combined
Unlocking the Future of Accounting and Technology
Empowering Futures: Bridging Accounting and Education to Make a Difference
Progress your accounting career.
This programme creates the opportunity to study on a part-time basis in accounting and professional services.
An innovative integrated masters programme offering excellent employment opportunities and full CAP2 exemptions from Chartered Accountants Ireland.
Popular postgraduate programme for high calibre accounting graduates which provides full CAP2 exemptions from CAI and excellent employment prospects.
Explore advanced composite and polymer materials, their processing and applications, driven by leading research and strong industrial engagement.
Pharmacists developing skills and knowledge in advanced practice enabling them to lead, develop and support practitioners across the healthcare system
Showing 1-41 of 1,109 results

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/entrance-requirements:
Check that you meet the University’s General Entrance Requirements and  the specific requirements for your chosen course(s).
Check that you meet the entry requirements for your chosen undergraduate degree.
Check to see if your Level 3 (non A-Level) qualification is acceptable for entry to Ulster.
Check that you meet the entry requirements for your chosen postgraduate degree.
Find out more about the general entry requirements for Foundation Degree programmes.
Associate Students
Information on the assessment of fitness for practice learning for students who have opted to study courses to prepare them...

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/entrance-requirements/equivalence:
Using the list below check if a certain qualification is accepted at Ulster University.
Showing 1 to 100 of 412 qualifications.
Previous Page | Next Page
Equivalent in size to one and half A levels, and generally require MM or above.
Ulster considers equivalent to one subject so candidates will normally need to have the equivalent of two additional A-Level subjects to satisfy an offer.
The only exception is for candidates taking two diplomas.
Does not count as a science subject for courses requiring a science subject at A-Level
Check programme page to see if this satisfies subject requirements.
Grading A*-D; Does not count as a science subject for courses requiring a science subject at A-Level
Designed specifically for progression to employment and doesn't support progression to HE
Qualification designed for progression to employment.
Qualification is designed for progression into employment and is less than the size of one A-Level
IT is not considered as a "desirable" subject for entry to computing degrees.
Please check programme page for more information.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/your-rights-and-obligations:
Rights and obligations of the university and students - terms and conditions.
At Ulster University we want to ensure you have all the information you need to make an informed decision about your studies.
There are a number of useful links below to key University publications, policies and procedures.
These outline your rights and obligations to the University when you choose to study at Ulster, as well as our obligations to you.
You should familiarise yourself with these policies and the University's Terms and Conditions.
The University's admissions process is subject to Consumer Protection Law.
This means that you have the right to cancel your application to study within 14 days of accepting your offer.
When you accept an offer of a place on a course as either your firm or insurance choice, a contract will be made between you and Ulster University.
You can change your mind within 14 days of accepting the offer by contacting the UCAS Customer Contact Centre on 037 1468 0468 or +44 33 0333 0230 (international)*.
After the 14-day period, it may be possible to cancel with the permission of the Faculty Admissions Office.
You will need to contact the Faculty on 028 7012 4221, and UCAS, to discuss your options.
Once you have accepted an offer to study, you can cancel within 14 days without giving a reason.
If you cancel your offer within this period, any deposit or administration or other fees you have paid will be refunded in full.
All students have a further 14 day right to cancel from the first date of term before becoming liable for tuition fees .
To exercise your right to cancel, you must inform us in writing which may be by post or email to the Admissions Office including the following information:
To meet the cancellation deadline, you must send your right to cancel statement before the end of the cancellation period.
The right to cancel is a statutory right under the United Kingdom's Consumer Contracts (Information, Cancellation and Additional Charges) Regulations 2013.
Once 14 days have passed you can still choose to cancel your acceptance of a place to study, however you should make yourself aware of the Tuition Fee Liabilities Policy .
Your statutory right of cancellation does not affect your right to withdraw from the University at other times; subject to any ongoing obligations you may have to the University as a result of your registration should you commence studies at the University.
Your statutory right of cancellation does not affect your right to withdraw from the University at other times, subject to any ongoing obligations you may have to the University as a result of your registration.
Please refer to the Deregistration Policy should you wish to take a leave of absence or completely withdraw from study.
You are protected by Consumer Protection legislation, consolidated within the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA), and these Terms and Conditions have been established in accordance with guidance on the implications of consumer legislation for Higher Education Institutions issued by the Competition and Markets Authority.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/global/apply:
Whether you are looking for undergraduate or postgraduate study, Ulster University is an excellent choice for international students choosing to study in the UK.
Ulster University is home to over 30,000 students and welcome international students from more than 70 countries.
Our international students are valued and respected for the unique experiences and perspectives that they contribute to university life, enriching the study experience for all students.
Our courses are designed with your career in mind, with most developed in partnership with employers to ensure the skills, knowledge and experience you gain match the needs of your chosen profession.
Next steps:
Apply now for postgraduate study
Next steps if you are applying directly:
Apply directly now
Next steps if you are applying through UCAS:
Apply through UCAS
Learn more about the Exchange or Study Abroad programme
Steps for applying:
Visit Ulster University's Doctoral College for more information on our research programmes.
Applications to Ulster University are carefully reviewed and applicant supporting documentation, including qualifications, verified.
If we are unable to make the verification ourselves, we will require applicants to submit a verification check using Qualification Check.
If this applies to you, we will contact you to request for a Qualification Check.
Application deadline
Sunday 22 June 2025
Meet conditions of your offer
Friday 1 August 2025
Pay your £4,000 deposit
Please note; we must be in receipt of your deposit by this date.
Depending on your bank, it can take several weeks for your deposit to clear.
Please ensure you allow sufficient time for your deposit to be received by the deadline.
Friday 8 August 2025
CAS Request
You must have completed the CAS request and uploaded all required documents by this date.
Friday 22 August 2025
Monday 2 June 2025
Meet conditions of offer
Monday 7 July 2025
Pay your £4,000 deposit
Friday 25 July 2025
You must have completed the CAS request and uploaded all required documents by this date.
Monday 11 August 2025
Wednesday 29 January 2025
Friday 27 June 2025
Friday 4 July 2025
Friday 11 July 2025
Monday 14 July 2025
Monday 4 August 2025
Offers issued by the University are subject to the academic conditions attached to each offer, capacity on the course and completion of the admission process.
We will confirm places to offer holders on a first-come, first-served basis, and reserve the right to close admission to any of our courses when student capacity is reached.
We strongly advise you satisfy the conditions of offer as soon as possible.
When you have satisfied all academic conditions of offer you will have to complete the admission process and pay your deposit to secure your place.
If your course is already full when you pay your deposit, you will be offered the next available intake for your course or offered a refund of your deposit.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/fe-students:
Further Education colleges offer a number of qualifications which meet the entrance requirements for our undergraduate courses.
Foundation degree students on courses validated by us are Ulster University Associate Students .
Whether you are completing a BTEC qualification, A levels or an Access course, you will receive a number of UCAS tariff points for your qualification(s) - see equivalence of qualifications .

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/associate-students:
Continue your studies at Ulster with an Associate Foundation Degree.
A validated foundation degree is linked to an honours degree with Ulster, giving you the opportunity to continue your higher level education journey from the second year of the course.
Your college Course Director can advise you on linked courses, year of entry, grade requirements and application deadlines.
You’re studying your foundation degree at college but did you know you can access many of the same services that current Ulster students can?
Consult and borrow Library books in any of Ulster’s libraries on Belfast, Coleraine, or Derry~Londonderry campuses and access a huge selection of journals.
Access concessionary rates and become a member of Ulster’s Sports Centres at Belfast, Coleraine or Derry~Londonderry campuses.
Join Ulster’s Students' Sports Union to be part of a club or represent Ulster University in competitive sport.
Membership forms are available at each of the sports centres in Belfast, Coleraine or Derry~Londonderry.
Once registered with your college, follow these simple steps to register with Ulster University on your validated programme:
Upon completion of the above your UU student card will be sent to your College by November 2024.
Your college Course Director can advise you on linked course(s), year of entry, grade requirements and application deadlines.
Students enrolling at Partner Institutions on Ulster University validated programmes will be known as Associate Students....
Find courses at Ulster University.
Undergraduate opportunities at Ulster.
Find out more about fees.
Contact details for subject area Partnership Managers.
At Ulster, we provide first class teaching and learning resources.
Access Ulster sports facilities as an associate student.
Associate students, who are studying for awards of the University at partner institutions, may appeal to Ulster University, once they...
Information on student complaints process.
Associate Student Complaints

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/campus-life:
Going to university is an exciting step and choosing where to study is an important decision that will shape your future.
We are one University with three distinct locations across Northern Ireland in Belfast, Coleraine, and Derry~Londonderry, as well as our Ulster University Sports Village, Jordanstown.
While each location differs in size and has its own distinctive atmosphere, you can be sure that wherever you choose to study, you will have a fantastic student experience.
Get advice, find the latest job and placement opportunities, access the Edge Award and other online resources that will support...
Discover several different routes students can take to make sure that they are globally mobile during their time at Ulster....

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/campuses:
We are one University with three distinct campuses across Northern Ireland - Belfast, Coleraine and Derry ~ Londonderry, as well as Jordanstown Sports Village.
Courses are also delivered at our branch campuses in London and Birmingham.
Courses are also delivered at our branch campuses in London, Birmingham and Manchester.
With over 30,000 students, Ulster University is uniquely placed to engage local communities, support expansion of the knowledge based economy and contribute to the economic, social and cultural development of Northern Ireland.
While each campus differs in size and has its own distinctive atmosphere, wherever you study or work with us, you will still experience Ulster’s unique character.
Discover our growth and regeneration projects that are delivering more students, jobs and economic impact for the region.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/accommodation:
Hassle-free.
Live where you want, with who you want & new payment options!
Got a spare room?
Once you have accepted an offer from Ulster and have received your Student ID number, you can apply for a room via our portal Accommodation at Ulster University
We have limited accommodation available across our campuses and we are processing applications as per the accommodation criteria.
Our ResLife team is working diligently to process applications as quickly as possible.
We are award winning .
Not only are we The Times Higher Education University of the Year 2024 , but our accommodation has won awards for Best Student Wellbeing and are finalists for the Best Moving in Experience 2025.
Other reasons to live at Ulster University Student Accommodation.
Ulster University Accommodation, find out more information about how to apply.
Find out what costs are involved when staying in accommodation at Ulster University.
What you need to know before you arrive at Ulster University.
Located in the heart of the vibrant Cathedral Quarter, the new £250 million campus at Belfast is one of the largest higher education capital builds in Europe.
If you need to get in contact with us call us on +44 28 7167 5750 or email accommodationb@ulster.ac.uk
Find us on Facebook at ResLife Belfast Facebook and ResLife Jordanstown Facebook
123 York Street is in the ideal location for the modern student looking for city living.
Belfast Campus
Located on the edge of the city’s bustling Cathedral Quarter.
Apartment-living in a modern student village full of facilities.
Jordanstown
The Coleraine campus has an enviable location overlooking the River Bann, less than a mile to Coleraine, and only three miles from seaside towns of Portrush and Portstewart.
If you need to get in contact with us call us on +44 28 7167 5750 or email accommodationc@ulster.ac.uk
Find us on Facebook at ResLife Coleraine Facebook
This development of apartments and townhouses is in the beautiful seaside town of Portstewart.
Coleraine campus
The perfect place to balance study and relaxation.
Coleraine Campus
A bespoke development of terraced houses located on Coleraine campus.
Ideally located adjacent to the university campus.
Overlooking the River Foyle, the main building of our beautiful Derry ~ Londonderry campus is surrounded by state of the art buildings, housing laboratories, workshops, lecture theatres and performance studios.
If you need to get in contact with us call us on +44 28 7167 5750 or email accommodationm@ulster.ac.uk
Find us on facebook at ResLife Magee Facebook
Coppin House is in an ideal location adjacent to the Derry~Londonderry campus.
Derry~Londonderry Campus
A village feel, in the heart of the city.
The Magazine Street accommodation comprises of a mid-terrace five-bay three-storey red brick townhouse, dating from c.1840 and located just west...
The perfect home from home for International, Mature, PG and PhD students.
Find out when you can move in, insurance and your induction.
You can bring your own personal items such as bedding and cutlery.
View ResLife Policies.
The rules and regulations help everybody have a safe and enjoyable experience.
Guidance on how to stay safe in the campus residence.
Community Relations work hard developing relationships between students and community stakeholders.
A checklist and guidance for what you need to do when you are leaving.
Short stays & summer bookings
We currently have availability at Jordanstown Sports Village from a minimum of 3 nights.
Coleraine Campus & Derry~Londonderry has limited availability for short stays for a maximum of 3-7 nights.
Belfast Campus has no availability for short stays .

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/sport:
No minimum contract!
Terms and conditions apply.
Unlimited gym, unlimited classes, racquet sports and the use of our health suites and rooftop running track at available sites.
We are excited to announce a new faster and secure way to book your favourite classes.
Simply register with Leisure Hub and get booking.
Please make sure to read the Terms and conditions of Sports Centre membership .
Ulster University sports centre membership is open to students, staff and members of the public.
Our facilities and classes are open to students, staff and the wider community.
Please make sure to read the Terms and conditions of Sports Centre facilities .
At the Sports Village we have world class facilities that are open all year round to our students and members...
Our Campus in Coleraine boasts a variety of indoor and outdoor facilities that are open all year round to students...
Our facilities in Derry~Londonderry cater for many sports ranging from archery to volleyball, and are open to students and members...
At our Belfast Campus, we have world class facilities that are open all year round to students and members of...
All the contact information and opening hours for each campus.
Tailored support programmes to increase performance levels of individuals and teams.
The community is welcome to use our facilities and join in our range of age related programmes and activities throughout the year at each campus.
Contact us if you have a query  about our memberships, facilities or services.
Randox is a global market leader within the in vitro diagnostics industry, developing innovative diagnostic solutions for hospitals, clinical, research and molecular labs, food testing, forensic toxicology, veterinary labs and life sciences.
Formed in 1982, it is now the largest healthcare diagnostics company from the UK & Ireland.
Employing over 2,100 staff and maintaining a string of commitments to R&D and innovation – with up to 25% of turnover committed to such purposes each year.
Randox’s partnership with Ulster University sport commenced in 2017 when they supported a GAA tour of China as part of the University’s wider programme of engagement in key international markets, sponsored by Randox.
The Randox student sports sponsorship deal at Ulster University then began in 2018 and is one of our longest standing partnerships.
Supplying kit and equipment for over 70 sports clubs across the university’s four campuses, including individual and team sports such as basketball, GAA, hockey, football, athletics and more.
For example, this investment from Randox has helped the University to install world leading performance analysis equipment.
Dr.
Peter FitzGerald, Randox Managing Director :
“Randox is passionate about fostering talent and see our university-wide student sports sponsorship as a brilliant opportunity to nurture the young sporting stars of Northern Ireland.
We are delighted to extend our partnership with the Ulster University sports teams and look forward to supporting these students as they thrive in both sports teams and look forward to supporting these students as they thrive in both the sporting and academic spheres.”
Sport and physical activity is an important part of life at Ulster and many of our students play for "Team Ulster" in social, friendly and competitive sport every day.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/student/wellbeing:
Explore our support services and access trusted advice, information, and guidance.
24 hour support available.
Access a range of online tools and resources tailored to support your individual wellbeing.
Where to find us on campus.
Book a chat with us
Let us know.
At Student Wellbeing we match students with support providers for one-to-one disability support.
Assistive Technology is the term used for specialist equipment or computer software, which allows you to increase the quality and...
Our mental health information will explain the range of common mental health issues and let you know how to access...
In order to stay happy and healthy you need to remember to take care of body as well as your mind.
Information, guidance and support for UU students.
Find out what the chaplaincy has to offer at Ulster University.
Find out how we can help you with any academic problems you are having.
Follow these steps if you are thinking about permanently withdrawing from the University.
It is important to maintain supportive healthy relationships.
If you have any concerns about a relationship come and talk to...
Consent happens when all people involved in any kind of sexual activity agree to take part by choice.
The University has a comprehensive policy and procedure for dealing with complaints of bullying and harassment in the learning environment....
Start the conversation - no matter how big or small the problem.
Call us on 028 9536 7000 from 8.45am to 5pm Monday to Thursday and 8.45am to 4pm Friday.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/ds:
Digital Services is a major University administrative department with responsibilities covering academic and administrative computing, digital communications, media-technology services and reprographic services.
Connect to Ulster University's Eduroam WiFi.
Get setup help, device configuration tips, and support for access on campus and beyond....
Access your Ulster Banner student record to view your email details and check your registration status.
For Students
Learn to use Blackboard Learn Ultra to access course content, submit assignments, and get support for your virtual learning....
Password information for use of University services.
Includes guidance on how to retrieve your initial password or change your password....
MFA is an additional layer of security that can prevent unauthorised access to your University account.
Details on how our Digital Services directorate provides technical, digital, information and application strategies to underpin the operational running of the University, whilst enabling transformation and growth.
Information about the Digital Services IT Service Desk, Self-service Portal, Self-Help resources and Service Status.
The University, in co-operation with Microsoft, provides a web-based email service to all students.
How visitors and associates can access Ulster IT services, including Wi-Fi, workstations, and email.
For Staff
Digital Services offer a wide range of training events and resources, how-to guides and advice.
Ulster staff can use Microsoft Teams to chat, meet, share files, and collaborate securely via Office 365.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/library:
Welcome to Ulster University Library.
Find out about Library services and resources supporting learning, teaching & research at the University.
Quick Links
The Library is launching new training workshops to support researchers at Ulster University with open access publishing, compliance with open access funder policies and copyright.
EBSCO has launched a new user interface for its EBSCOhost platform, designed to make your research journey smoother, faster and more intuitive.
The new interface will be used across the full range of available EBSCO databases.
BrowZine is a personalised, virtual newsstand that transforms how you discover, read, & stay current with the latest electronic journals available through the Library.
BrowZine sits alongside the Library’s Electronic Journals site, offering an alternative way to browse & discover e-journals.
The Library Service offers 24-hour spaces to Ulster students & staff.
24-hour access includes study environments, social learning spaces and access to computing, printing, scanning & photocopying facilities.
Staffed opening hours include enquiry services and support, borrowing and access to bookstock.
The summer 2025 staffed Library opening hours can be found below.
Summer 2025 staffed Library opening hours Day Open Closed Monday-Thursday 8.45am 5pm Friday 8.45am 4pm Saturday & Sunday CLOSED
USearch, the Library's discovery service, offers a Google-like search across many of the Library's databases and eresources....
Lists Library databases & e-resources available to support teaching, learning & research.
Access details, descriptions, passwords, user guides & more...
Use the Journal Finder page to search the Library's electronic journal collection.
Search for a particular journal title or browse...
There are 25,000+ eBook titles on the Library Catalogue and the collection is continually being added to.
Many of the Library's databases & e-resources are protected using OpenAthens.
You can login to OpenAthens protected resources with your...
Access the Library's reading list catalogue, designed to guide you to the books, journals & other resources selected by lecturers....
Access to online past exam papers.
Exam papers can be searched by course reference number (CRN), module number or keywords...
Details about Library services such as borrowing, access and document delivery.
Follow us on Instagram @ulsterunilibrary and on X @UlsterUniLib for the latest updates, resources, and library news.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/employability:
Access expert advice, sector leading resources and wide-ranging work experience, placement and graduate opportunities with Employability & Graduate Futures
We are here to help!
We are here to help guide you through your student to graduate transition.
Our expert 1-1 advice and coaching service can be the perfect remedy for the lack of control you might feel about what comes after university.
Find out more about how we can help you navigate these next few months and beyond.
And remember, as a UU graduate, you will have full and ongoing access to our 1-1 advice and coaching service and our digital tools.
Student Journeys, told by students
Our new Employability Diaries are a series of individual stories told by our students, demonstrating the diverse range of individual pathways we all navigate.
From placement to self employment, navigating health challenges, utilising networks to returning to university as a mature student, you will relate to some or all of our diary entries.
Get involved in extra curricular activities that boost your skills, confidence and networks.
Check out our wide range of activities and how you can get EDGE recognition for extra curricular activities that you are already completing
Boost your skills and confidence through the EDGE Award
Improving your self awareness will lay the foundation for improved confidence, continuous improvement and clearer career direction....
Your Graduate Futures team are here to help you develop your job search strategies.
Improve your CV and approach to job applications through expert advice and sector leading resources
Improve your interview preparation and performance through expert advice on body language, confidence, preparation and performance....
Enhance your digital presence in a way that will expand your network, improve your visibility and create opportunities.
Providing support to students and recent graduates to access entrepreneurial advice.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/goglobal:
Discover several different routes students can take to make sure that they are globally mobile during their time at Ulster.
Attend one of our pre-departure sessions where you will receive guidance and support for your experience abroad!
You will also get the opportunity to meet with other students  joining you on this amazing experience and hear from past students.
An opportunity not to be missed!
Discover a range of short-term and volunteering opportunities available to Ulster students.
Discover our short language courses available to prepare you for studying abroad.
Find out more about studying abroad as part of your Ulster Degree.
Opportunities to work internationally during your time at Ulster.
Stories from Ulster University students about their experiences of Studying, Working and Volunteering abroad.
Participating in one of Ulster’s Study - Work - Volunteer abroad programmes could be a significant and memorable experience to carry with you for the future.
You can expect to experience diversity and different lifestyles, gain intercultural communication skills, increase your independence and adaptability and maybe even see life and learning in a new way.
The Global Opportunities team and your academic study advisor are available to support current Ulster students and ensure that Ulster’s programmes offer a flexible range of options and destinations that enhance your degree.
to be one of the first to hear about opportunities for you to Go Global!
A new educational setting will require you to build upon your learning processes, and a new routine will push you to adapt and develop new skills to cope with the change.
Studying at a university abroad will mean you are able to take classes not offered at Ulster.
Doing so will give you the opportunity to extend and diversify your learning
          experience.
Outside of lectures, the world is your oyster!
The opportunity to travel and explore will give you a wealth of experience that you can bring home.
The world is now a global stage, so what better way to get noticed?
Having demonstrable experience of living and learning in another culture is often prized by employers, especially international companies.
What better way to learn a language but to live it?
Even if you aren't taught in your host language, your day-to-day interactions will help you swiftly build up knowledge and vocabulary.
The Global Opportunities Team are working to create Global mobility opportunities for students at Ulster.
As part of the Office for Global Engagement we identify, promote and facilitate opportunities for students to be globally mobile, to study abroad and partake in overseas traineeships.
goglobal@ulster.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/enterprise:
Supporting students and recent graduates to access business start-up and entrepreneurial advice, guidance, and resources.
Connect online, in person & on campus.
The Enterprise Hub supports students and recent graduates to access entrepreneurial advice, guidance, and resources, delivered across campuses and online.
Get access to programmes, resources, funding opportunities, and competitions available to you.
Connect with like-minded individuals and learn how to grow your business start-up and enhance your entrepreneurial knowledge.
Launch of Enterprise Hub Bursaries
Equity free seed funding is now available to encourage entrepreneurial activity and help student entrepreneurs develop a business idea, or support a new start up business.
Applications are open until 7 March 2025
Access programmes and events to develop, support and expand your entrepreneurial skills, knowledge and networks.
Providing opportunities to access prize funding, bursaries, advice and mentoring.
Showcasing student business ideas and start-ups....
Collaborating across faculties, departments and external organisations to maximise entrepreneurial support for students and recent graduates....
Discover what resources are available for you in your enterprise journey.
Get the skills and knowledge you need to start...
Connect with other entrepreneurial students and Enterprise support agencies in the Enterprise Hub Co-Working balcony next to BC-02-103 on our Belfast campus.
Contact Emma Donnelly, Student and Graduate Enterprise Officer
Connect with the Enterprise Hub on LinkedIn for industry news, upcoming events, opportunities & competitions.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/research:
We're contributing to advances that are helping to build sustainable futures and improve the quality of life for us all.
Visit Ulster University's PURE Research Portal.
A Strategy for Research Excellence, Inclusion and Impact.
Research and Innovation
Want to help solve some of the biggest challenges our world is facing today?
Postgraduate research study at Ulster University provides access to world-class experts and facilities, links to business and industry, and the chance to find solutions to real-world issues.
At Ulster University our research, knowledge, and expertise deliver groundbreaking solutions that can drive your business’s growth.
We are in the Top 10% of UK Universities for outstanding (4*) or very considerable (3*) research impact.
Our research is transforming lives, solving global challenges to impact communities and societies for the better.
At Ulster we promote an open, diverse, supportive and sustainable research culture, fostering cooperation and collaboration between researchers and our partners and nurturing interdisciplinary between research groups.
Get more information on the governance of research at Ulster University.
Research & Innovation Policies and Procedures.
Your source for the latest Ulster University research news and events.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/research/collaboration-and-innovation:
There are different ways for organisations to access expertise at Ulster University.
Ulster University has a long and successful heritage of creating value from our research knowledge.
Our market-leading commercial consultancy and award-winning technology commercialisation provides considerable value to those we work with and the economy, through knowledge transfer partnerships, licensing, consultancy and more.
Our strength is in taking our world-class research and turning it into useful knowledge, tangible products and even companies.
Whether you’re a business, organisation, institution, charity, individual, academic or student , let us help you innovate and grow through research.
There are a range of funding programmes available to support innovation and R&D.
The wholly owned knowledge and technology venturing company of Ulster University.
Find out how we have provided practical, innovative services to businesses.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/research/collaboration-and-innovation/work:
We work with hundreds of businesses annually in the delivery of effective innovative and research-based solutions.
Whether it's new product development, core research, solving a technical problem or simply driving internal efficiencies, you can engage the university's researchers and academics to help with tangible issues specific to your business needs.
Innovate and collaborate with Ulster University KTPs.
Consultancy continues to be a key mechanism of knowledge exchange between academics and industry.
Technologies are available for licensing and/or further collaborative development.
Companies can spin-in to the university and access our inventions, research, technologies and facilities.
PhD research can be a cost-effective way for your business to solve a research problem.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/research/topic:
Conducting internationally excellent and world-leading research through five constituent research centres.
Our research is focused on providing value to society, culture and the economy.
Study of the biological mechanisms associated with cancer, diabetes, heart disease, blindness and various diseases associated with the ageing population....
Our research focuses on Operations Management, Marketing and Corporate Governance with a strong cross-cutting theme supporting the SME regional economy....
World-leading research in intelligent systems, assistive technologies, next generation networks, and semantic analytics.
Quality research in education impacting scholarly knowledge, professional practice and society, at local, national, and international levels....
Focusing on the development of nanotechnology, clean technology, tissue engineering, composites, metal forming and connected health technologies....
A vibrant group of internationally recognised researchers, we are committed to exploring the meaning and significance of literatures in English...
Addressing regional and international challenges and impacts in the 21st Century.
Researching early modern to modern period history from medical, gender, cultural, social, political, and ideological perspectives....
Our law research excels in multiple areas, addressing major societal challenges at local and global levels.
At the forefront of research, development and growth in Media Studies for over four decades.
Research in the fields of Irish & Celtic Studies, Linguistics, and Languages and Heritage.
A unique multidisciplinary and interdisciplinary environment for research across and between the fields of drama, film, music, heritage and museum...
Enhancing the knowledge, expertise and engaged scholarship of nursing, midwifery, public health and allied health professions research....
The Personalised Medicine Centre aims to develop treatments and clinical tools that take into account a person’s individual genetic and...
Research across three main themes of research in 'Mental health', 'Children, Young People and Schools', 'Health and Ageing'....
Ulster University's Social Work and Social Policy Research excels in multiple topic areas, ranging methodologically from the highly abstract to...
World-leading research that enhances the quality of life and addresses the changing needs of sport and physical activity in society....

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/departments/research:
The PVC Research & Impact is responsible for developing and leading our research and impact strategies ensuring that Ulster University achieves its research targets, and that our research informs our teaching and benefits society locally and globally.
The PVC is supported by a Executive Manager and Executive Assistant.
R&I Executive
Belfast
BD-04-021
BD-04-005
Magee
MI102
Pvc Research
Coleraine
H030
MI107
BC-05-107
BA-02-020
The Doctoral College is responsible for the Management and Development of Postgraduate Research at Ulster University; Administration of new Programmes and Research Studentships and Management of the Researcher Development Programme.
It manages knowledge exchange, consultancy and KTP projects and supports the commercialisation of research.
The Research Development team is responsible for horizon scanning for funding opportunities.It provides support within Faculties to ensure high quality applications including costing and promotes interdisciplinary projects.
The Research Governance team is responsible for the Management of Research Regulation, Governance and Ethics; Intellectual Property Management and Protection and Internal Research Risk and Audit Management.
The Research Management team is responsible for Post Award Research Contract Management, Management of Research Finance and Administration of Research Grant Claims.
The Research Performance team is responsible for the Management of the Research Excellence Framework (REF); Research Strategy and Performance Management and Management of Research Systems and Research Data.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/doctoralcollege/postgraduate-research:
We have numerous research opportunities open to applicants from home and overseas.
Learn how to apply for postgraduate research at Ulster University and explore tuition fees, funding options, and available scholarships.
Postgraduate research study at Ulster University provides access to world-class experts and facilities, links to business and industry, and the chance to push the boundaries of your research knowledge to find solutions to real-world issues.
Ulster University partners with a range of institutions and industry leaders to provide collaborative opportunities for PhD Research in Northern...
Doctoral Partnerships
Funding opportunities for research study at Ulster
Offering the chance for those interested in PhD research to have their study paid for.
Want to study on a self-funded basis?
Or have a private sponsor?
You may be eligible to apply for the PhD by Published Work which is a one-year programme pulling together themes...
The MRes is available via four different pathways: Biomedical Sciences, Psychology, Geography and Environmental Sciences, and Medicine....
Master of Research
The MPhil programme is offered across all research areas within the university.
This is research-based degree which is equivalent in level to a PhD
The PhD is offered across all research areas within the University and there are a wide range of funding opportunities.
We offer a number of Higher Doctorates for members of staff or graduates of the University
Hear from our PhD researchers on the research experience at Ulster University.
Take advantage of more affordable fees and accommodation, excellent studentship opportunities and outstanding results for researcher satisfaction.
The latest Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES 2023) has placed Ulster University 4th in the UK for postgraduate researcher satisfaction.
The national benchmarking exercise surveyed postgraduate research students from 105 universities across the UK about their postgraduate research experience.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/doctoralcollege/postgraduate-research/fees-and-funding:
Ulster University Doctoral College research culture
Information on Ulster University tuition fees.
Information on fees and potential funding sources
Potential sources of funding for overseas students
Find out more about the cost of living in Northern Ireland as well as other expenses.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/doctoralcollege/contact:
The Doctoral College team can help with any queries you may have in relation to research students and research degrees at Ulster University.
See who to contact below:
Feel free to drop into the Doctoral College offices at Coleraine and Belfast between 10am – 3pm (Monday - Thursday) or at Magee between 10am – 3pm on Mondays to speak to one of our team.
On Fridays we operate a virtual office from 8am - 4pm – get connected to a member of the Doctoral College team .
Ulster University Doctoral College
L245
BC-04-215
MC127
L232
H154
BC-04-173
L247
L233

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/ref:
Our research is transforming lives.
We solve global challenges to impact communities and societies for the better.
Ulster University has increased its level of 4* world-leading research with 87% of research judged to be either world-leading or internationally excellent.
Key increases in Ulster’s 2021 submission include:
Overall, Ulster University has further increased its research positioning in the UK;
Our institutional research focus is tightly aligned to our mission, with four thematic research priorities:
These priorities are pursued in a purposefully interdisciplinary way across 17 Units of Assessment (UoA) spanning 4 REF main panels , ensuring a strong link between our research and teaching while addressing issues of global relevance with meaningful impact locally, nationally, and globally.
Our four Faculties work across the disciplinary boundaries of their fields in a naturally, interdisciplinary way.
We have worked hard to maintain their sustainability and vitality bringing some disciplines closer together with each other and with industry and external partners to allow for greater scalability and impact.
This inclusive and collaborative approach has driven our suite of new research and innovation projects as part of the new City and Growth Deals in Northern Ireland.
As an institution, we enable and facilitate impact through our partnership approach.
Our pioneering innovative technologies and solutions support some of the biggest global challenges, including heart disease, cancer, diabetes, mental health, access to clean water, renewable energy, increasing crop demand, access to justice, emerging technologies and a range of societal issues such as free legal access, abuse, fragility, violence, and conflict.
In both teaching and research, our strength lies in our partnerships with business and industry and knowledge transfer between them.
Professor Paul Bartholomew
Vice-Chancellor
Scroll Right to see all our 2021 Results
UoA
Unit of Assessment Title
Category A Staff Submitted*
4 Star %
3 Star %
2 Star %
1 Star %
Unclassified
3
Allied Health Professions, Dentistry, Nursing and Pharmacy
140.08
4
Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience
31.40
11
Computer Science and Informatics
69.60
12
Engineering
39.60
13
Architecture, Built Environment and Planning
52.80
14
Geography and Environmental Studies
19.60
17
Business and Management Studies
34.40
18
Law
14.70
20
Social Work and Social Policy
28.80
23
Education
11.20
24
Sport and Exercise Sciences, Leisure and Tourism
19.20
26
Modern Languages and Linguistics
16.20
27
English Language and Literature
12.00
28
History
9.00
32
Art and Design: History, Practice and Theory
31.19
33
Music, Drama, Dance, Performing Arts, Film and Screen Studies
15.80
34
Communication, Cultural and Media Studies, Library and Information Management
12.70
*Category A Staff Submitted reflects Full-time Equivalent.
The  REF 2021 Results Table captures the overall quality profile, namely percentage of research activity at each quality level.
Liam Maguire, PVC Research & Innovation
Pro-Vice Chancellor
Learn more about our research and how you can work with us
Enhancing and supporting the PhD researcher experience.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/business:
We can work with you to help prime your business to achieve your immediate goals and deliver long-term sustainable growth.
Together we can transform organisations, improve society, and drive growth.
“Our relationship with Ulster University is key to positioning ourselves, and our clients, for the future.”
Angela Clist - Partner, Co-Global Head, Financial Institutions Sector Group, A & O Shearman
Work with us to solve your immediate issues, whilst thinking long-term to future-proof your organisation.
Get in touch.
We can connect you with key contacts across the entire university and help you develop partnerships.
Advertise vacancies and raise your profile to recruit our talent through placements, internships and graduate roles.
Power Your Business Today
Take your employee's career to the next level.
Find out how we can support your business to nurture talent and...
Connect with us for innovative programme development and learning solutions for your employees.
We deliver new product development, core research, research commercialisation, start up/scale up support, or simply solve technical problems for your...
Partner with us to co-deliver on shared values, SDG’s, and social impact objectives.
“Randox is very proud to work alongside Ulster University; we’ve been doing this for decades now.
Ulster has always been committed to working with employers… what we are very much aligned on is the development of students in further life, what they go on to do and how they use their education to better their own career development and also contribute to the economy.”
Linda Magee, Chief Operating Officer, Randox Laboratories Ltd
If you’re new to our services or need further information on ways of working with us, please get in touch.
We can direct your enquiry or discuss bespoke partnerships and tailored programmes.
Corporate Engagement
BD-04-029

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/business/talent:
Partner with Ulster University to infuse your business with fresh thinking and emerging talent who bring new skills, boost innovation, and drive your growth from day one.
Hiring Ulster placement students and graduates means gaining motivated, work-ready individuals ready to make an immediate impact on your team.
We run one of the UK’s largest work-based learning programmes, connecting organisations of all sizes with skilled, ambitious students ready to make a difference.
Fill out our Student and Graduate Talent Enquiry Form.
Sign up to our career platform Handshake to advertise your vacancy.
We'd love to chat.
Power your business with Ulster University placement students now.
Strengthen Your Team
Of employers who recruited placement students offer them permanent roles at the end of the placement or on graduation ( Ulster University Graduate Employer Survey, 2025).
Of student placements would recommend a placement to others (Ulster Graduate Exit Survey, 2024 ).
Of UK graduates went into work or further study (UK Graduate Outcomes 2024 from the class of 2021/2022).
In this short video, Jane Boyle, Head of HR Services highlights how placement students bring fresh perspectives, contribute meaningfully to real projects, and support talent development within the firm.
Discover why CITI views student placements and graduate roles as a strategic investment, driving innovation and building future talent.
Carla McGlynn, Tecnology Director at CITI shares how partnering with Ulster University delivers real impact for CITI.
Why Hire Our Graduates?
Our graduates are equipped to make an impact from day one.
Ulster graduates have unique graduate attributes to equip them for the workplace and for life:
Fairs & Events
Ulster University Careers Fairs are a great way for employers to raise awareness of their organisation, advertise opportunities and connect with a talented and diverse pool of students and graduates.
Thinking about recruiting student and graduate talent?

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/faculties/ulster-university-business-school/student-placements:
A critical part of the learning journey for our students is the development of employability skills to ensure they are career ready.
Advertise vacancies and raise your profile to recruit our talent through placements, internships and graduate roles starting in September 2025.
Ulster University Business School collaborates with diverse local and international employers, offering high-quality placements for undergraduates and postgraduates.
We enhance future employability by integrating academic knowledge with real-world practical skills in the workplace.
We re-launched our placement  competition, to recognise and celebrate the achievements of students who have successfully secured and completed professional placements.
We invited students not to simply write about their experience, but to tell their story on camera, in their own words, and through their own lens.
Each video was a unique window into the placement experience, capturing the professionalism, creativity, and depth of learning our students gained during their time in the workplace.
Meet Emma Peeples, currently undertaking a placement year with Colloide Engineering Systems Limited, a specialist engineering company based in Cookstown, Northern Ireland.
Meet Fionn Forbes, who undertook his placement within the Sales and Events Department at the Crowne Plaza Hotel, Belfast, as part of Andras Hotels—Northern Ireland’s largest hotel group.
Meet Sophie Meeke, who has undertaken a placement within the Finance Department at Errigal Contracts, is a market leading construction company based in Monaghan, with expertise in partition systems, external façade, interior fitout, ceilings and bespoke solutions.
Stacy Drennan, Business Development Director, Colloide, and Susan Reid, Marketing and Communications Manager, Colloide, speak on the benefits of partnering with Ulster University Business School and the benefits of taking on placement students.
Discover the benefits of a placement:
Unlock business value with an Ulster placement student:
Benjamin Smith, student at Ulster University and Victoria Wilson, Internal Recruiter at Anson McCade provide insights into Anson McCade's Placement Programme.
Join Ewan Glenny, student at Ulster University and Jane Boyle, Head of HR Services at Allen & Overy (Belfast) to discover the mutual benefits of work placements for learners and employers.
Aisling Vallely, an Ulster University student, and Andy McNeill, General Manager at The Europa Hotel share their insights on the benefits of industry placements for both students and employers.
For further information on our degree programmes and placement process, please contact the Ulster University Business School Placement Team:
Connect with the next generation of Ulster talent or search for new job opportunities relevant to your career via Handshake, our highly interactive career development platform.
Keep up to date with the latest news and events to support your future career prospects.
Latest news from Ulster University Business School.
Our events can help you make the right decision with your future career.
Follow us on X to keep up to date with Ulster University Business School.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/business/social-impact-and-sustainability:
Every one of our corporate partnerships is unique, matching specific business values with a meaningful Ulster project that will have a clear positive impact across our core fundraising objectives, detailed below.
At Ulster, we believe that higher education should be accessible to everyone and that a university experience can immeasurably benefit our students and the social progress of our most disadvantaged communities, leading to a more inclusive, equitable and confident society.
We reach across the whole university to develop ideas, strategies and programmes that can help you shape a better future for everyone.
Many organisations partner with us to co-deliver on shared values, Sustainable Development Goals, and social impact objectives.
We can work with you to develop a unique project that speaks to your company’s core values and purposes.
Develop a more diverse and inclusive workforce by providing scholarships and support for talented people who are less likely to be able to progress to Higher Education.
You can help create access to education by becoming a supporter of our proudly ambitious Ulster University Community Scholarships programmes
Have a far-reaching impact on healthcare and wellbeing and contribute to the future of our health system.
You could support ground-breaking medical research projects, fund leading edge equipment, or contribute to scholarships to boost the pipeline of locally qualified healthcare professionals, for example doctors at our new School of Medicine in Derry~Londonderry.
Be a part of our team and promote the positive effects of engaging in sport and regular physical activity by investing in our high-quality facilities, kit, sport scholarships, and competition opportunities for the Ulster community
Hear why our corporate partners, the SHS Group and Aflac Northern Ireland are helping to unlock potential.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/postgraduate-subjects:
We work hard to ensure employability is at the heart of our learning experience and that our programmes are professionally relevant, in line with industry needs and expertise demands.
Each of our four Faculties work in close collaboration with employers and awarding bodies to develop our curriculum and have achieved extensive accreditation from a range of processional bodies, across our suite of programmes.
If we haven't provided you with all the information you need below, do not hesitate to contact us .
The specialist financial and leadership skills needed to drive businesses, industries and economies forward including Advanced Accounting, Strategic Accounting, Global Capital Markets and Global Investment Management.
The specialist skills required to achieve  safe, sustainable and thriving communities.
Build your expertise in  Architecture, Planning, Design, Construction, Safety, Energy,  Civil Engineering and Management skills.
Driven by innovation and imagination, develop your practice in Fine Art, Art Psychotherapy, Animation, Photography, User Experience (UX) and Service Design and Fashion and Textile Retail Management.
Build your expertise in Biomedical Sciences and the specialist fields of Diabetes Care, Cataract and Refractive Surgery, Nutrition, Dietetics, Regulatory Affairs,  Personalised Medicine, Biotechnology, Stem Cell Biology, Veterinary Health and Prescribing for Optometrists.
Build your skills via our MBA programmes or courses in Business Development, Innovation or Improvement, Management, Marketing, Digital Transformation, Strategy, Human Resources, and Analytics.
Educate, entertain, excite and drive change.
Build your specialist skills and knowledge in the culturally important areas of Performance, Musicianship, English Literature, History, Irish Language, Heritage, Museum Studies and Practice.
Our programmes include our GCC and ECCE accredited full-time and part-time Master of Chiropractic (MChiro).
Our marketers and communicators navigate the worlds of business, creativity, and human behaviour to improve the lives of their consumers, customers, and communities.
Build your specialist skills in Communication, PR, Marketing, Digital Marketing Journalism, Communication and Counselling Studies.
Never more in demand, build your specialist skills in Computer Science, Artificial Intelligence (AI), Data Science, Internet of Things (IoT), Software Development and Smart Manufacturing Systems.
Help others achieve their full potential.
Learn more about our extensive range of PGCE courses and our specialist courses Education, School Leadership, Teaching English (TESOL) and Library and Information Management.
Driven by a relentless desire to make things better, our engineers are constantly seeking to improve how we live.
Build your specialist skills in Biomedical Engineering, Manufacturing Management, Smart Manufacturing Systems, Mechanical Engineering and Advanced Composites and Polymers.
Environmental issues are impacting our world, locally and globally.
Advocacy is shifting to action as local and global communities need expertise and support.
Build your specialist skills in Biodiversity, Data Analysis, Environment Management, Geographic Information Systems (GIS), Remote Sensing, Toxicology and Pollution.
Incorporating management, specialist knowledge and skills required by the exciting and rewarding industry at home and internationally.
Build your skills in Innovation, Critical Event Studies, Event Management, Food Design, Tourism and Hospitality Management, Managing and Leading People
World leading Law research drives our programme design and learning experience.
Build your expertise in  Access to Justice, Corporate Law, Computing and Innovation, Technology Law, Employment Law, Gender Conflict and Human Rights, Transitional Justice, and International Commercial Law.
The specialist skills that enable health care professionals to treat and care for others with dignity and compassion.
Follow a career in  Medicine or build your skills in Advanced Practice, Medicine Management, Physiotherapy, Occupational Therapy, Lower Limb Preservation in Diabetes.
Award-winning School of Nursing.
Build your specialist skills in Research, Nursing Practice, Applied Health Studies, Education, General Practice, Health and Wellbeing, Health Promotion, Nurse and Midwife Prescribing, Palliative Care and Specialist Nursing.
Transforming lives as a pharmacist or as a scientist, build your specialist skills in Business Practice, Pharmacy Practice, Zoonoses, Public Health, Pharmaceutical Sciences,  Pharmaceutical Nanotechnology, Instrumental Methods, Drug Discovery, Development and Delivery.
The specialist skills and knowledge to make a positive difference to lives of others.
Build your expertise in in Community Youth Work, Peace and Conflict Studies, Public Administration, Social Policy and Social Work.
The specialist skills to help individuals achieve their full potential, recover their health or improve their quality of life.
Build your expertise in Nutrition, Medicine, Psychology, Coaching, Performance, Strength and Conditioning,  Sports Management and Law.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/growth-and-regeneration:
We are committed to the growth and development of Northern Ireland through transformative projects that will deliver more students, jobs and economic impact for the region.
At Ulster University we are committed to shaping the future through transformative capital development projects that enhance campus life and support academic excellence.
We are a key delivery partner in a diverse range of growth and regeneration projects and along with our partners, we have a relentless ambition to drive growth, investment and prosperity for the region.
The growth and regeneration projects will develop new and enhance existing facilities, create learning opportunities, drive economic growth and attract investment thereby increasing the quality of life and opportunities for the region and its communities.
With investment from a range of funding packages these projects will stimulate and support the delivery of skills and talent pipeline and deliver world class research and development and innovation to attract significant foreign direct investment.
The projects will expand our campus footprint through the development of capital build projects including the new School of Medicine building and Shared Island Teaching Block aligning with the university’s strategic ambition to increase student numbers.
A City or Growth Deal is a package of funding and decision-making powers negotiated by government and local authorities, with the aim of harnessing additional investment, creating new jobs and speeding up inclusive and sustainable economic growth in specific areas.
They are agreements between the UK Government, local governments and partners and the cities and regions are key beneficiaries rather than individual organisations or establishments.
They bring together all levels of government to make long-term investments that are tailored to the needs and strengths of the region.
Partner organisations, including Ulster University, bring vital financial investment, expertise and thought leadership to accelerate and unlock the potential of the region.
Moving away from a one-size-fits-all investment model, over 26 City Deals have been agreed across the UK to date.
Northern Ireland is benefitting from a combined investment package of £1.2 billion across four City and Growth Deals and we are a partner in Belfast Region City Deal , Derry~Londonderry and Strabane City Region Deal and Causeway Coast and Glens Growth Deal.
Ulster University is a key delivery partner for growth and city deals which support our own ambitions to increase student population and stimulate broader economic development across Northern Ireland.
Along with a network of funders, sectoral and industry partners we are committed to develop and deliver these landmark projects which will benefit the region for future generations.
Ulster University is shaping the future of Northern Ireland through strategic capital projects to enhance campus life and support academic excellence.
Explore opportunities and find out information on how to supply for these projects.
Healthcare provision will be super-charged by future proofing industry through data driven innovation and generating a skills pipeline....
Industry-led, research-focused projects will drive innovation, translating the University’s data-driven research into real-world benefits....
World-class virtual production facilities will integrate film, animation, VFX, and games to create advanced solutions for TV and film production....
Centres of excellence will expand access to education, research and technology, creating vibrant, innovative spaces that enhance our campuses....
Discover where our growth and regeneration projects are transforming communities.
For more information on Growth and Regeneration Projects please contact:

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/business/engagement/build-a-course:
Customised executive development programmes aligned with your organisations requirements.
Ulster University Business School is a leading provider of university accredited management education, training and development programmes in Northern Ireland.
We work with a variety of organisations who wish to develop their own in-house staff development programme, taking advantage of our world-class expertise and knowledge.
Access a wealth of world-class academic expertise and innovative thinking from accomplished researchers and industry practitioners.
This ensures that your programme is not only highly effective, but also stays at the forefront of industry trends.
Craft a bespoke curriculum that directly addresses specific challenges, knowledge gaps and strategic priorities unique to your organisation.
Our co-creation approach ensures that curriculum is relevant, practical, and aligned with the latest trends and developments in your sector.
Applied work-based assessments allow participants to immediately apply theoretical concepts to practical challenges within their roles, delivering tangible results for your business.
Many of our bespoke programmes are accredited by professional bodies such as the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD), the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators (ICSA), the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM), the Chartered Management Institute (CMI).
This accreditation enhances credibility at both the employee and organisational level, providing valuable recognition for the skills and knowledge gained.
Discover the impact our tailored solutions have had on businesses, helping them achieve their learning and development goals.
Keltbray is a specialist construction engineering and infrastructure solutions group dedicated to becoming mission the UK’s leading provider of innovative build and infrastructure engineering solutions that generate value to their clients, stakeholders and the environment.
Keltbray partnered with Ulster University Business School to develop an Executive Leadership Development programme to nurture future leaders within the organisation.
Structured around a bespoke 'Mini MBA', this programme is tailored to equip future leaders within Keltbray with the essential skills and knowledge required for senior management and board roles.
The curriculum emphasises effective leadership principles, strategic decision-making, and the ability to lead and motivate teams towards achieving organisational objectives.
The programme spans several months of interactive workshops, case studies and collaborative projects to create a hands-on, immersive learning experience.
Keltbray view the programme as a genuine catalyst to help transform the future of their business as an innovative, growth-oriented company where the best people thrive and succeed.
Kainos Group plc is a UK-headquartered provider of sophisticated IT services to major public sector, commercial and healthcare customers.
With expertise spanning three divisions: Digital Services, Workday Services and Workday Products, Kainos are dedicated to creating a lasting positive impact for its clients by transforming the way they work through innovative technology solutions.
In partnership with Ulster University Business School, Kainos developed the Inspiring Leaders Programme.
This tailored learning solution was designed to equip the company’s emerging leaders with critical skills and the diverse leadership needed to support Kainos's growth journey.
The programme aligns closely with Kainos's strategic goals, offering customised workshops, skill-building sessions, and a unique five-day study visit to the renowned Global Leadership Institute at Boston College.
Participants who complete the programme earn a Level 7 Postgraduate Certificate in Executive Leadership, equipping them with advanced insights and skills to drive impactful leadership within the company.
Translink is the public transport provider in Northern Ireland.
Their mission is to lead the transformation of transport in the region through creating advanced public transport services and integrated networks which connect people and communities, enhance the economy and improve health and the environment.
With significant changes occurring in Northern Ireland’s public transport sector, Translink recognised the need for leadership development to guide the company’s transformation journey.
Ulster University Business School’s Business Engagement team worked closely with leaders of Translink to design, develop and deliver an Executive Leadership programme customised to the company’s vision.
The Elevate Leadership programme provides leaders with the knowledge and confidence to lead change, innovation and business transformation.
Ensuring applicability and relevancy, modules align with current projects and business objectives, and include Leading for the Future, Creating the Future, Leading for Transformational Change, and Digital Transformation.
The course leads to a Postgraduate Certificate in Executive Leadership.
Belfast Harbour is a prestigious organisation who manage Belfast Harbour Estate, some 20% of the Belfast City area which has seen huge transformational change over the past few years.
To help equip Belfast Harbour's practicing and future leaders with the skills they need to help their organisation take advantage of emerging transformational business opportunities, Ulster University Business School (UUBS) has partnered with Belfast Harbour to co-create a leadership development programme.
UUBS worked closely with senior staff from Belfast Harbour to understand and establish their training needs, and through partnership and co-creation a customised programme was crafted in line with Belfast Harbour’s organisational and development goals.
The programme will introduce students to academic knowledge, frameworks and best practice and help participants to practically apply this to their organisation.
Axiom is the global leading alternative legal services provider.
With over 2,000+ employees across three continents, they provide talent and technology to help legal departments adapt to a demanding new era.
Ulster University Business School were challenged by Axiom to put together a short course which would introduce Axiom’s client facing staff to key aspects of business and management, helping the staff to learn the language of business and gain an appreciation of business practice and theory so they could form a deeper understanding of their clients, and thus provide an improved service.
Our academic team worked closely with Axiom to define an appropriate curriculum which was delivered over a series of day modules to Axiom staff who came from Belfast, USA and Poland.
Hastings Hotels are Northern Ireland’s premier hotel group and pride themselves on delivering the best experience for their guests.
Their mission is to deliver the finest in Irish hospitality with style and elegance.
The group operate in a highly competitive sector and understand that a highly skilled and motivated staff are essential for them to deliver against the high level of customer service they are renown for.
Ulster University Business School's challenge was to work with Hastings Group to develop and deliver a bespoke staff development programme for first line and new managers which would meet the high standard required of the hotel group.
The programme needed to address specific organisational needs, whilst basing all the learning in an academic framework which rewarded the staff with a university qualification.
Ulster University Business School worked closely with Hastings Group to co-create and develop a curriculum which met their needs and those of their staff.
The Management Ambassador Programme (MAP) was the result – a tailored programme of 6 modules with content addressing the content and skills required by the client at a time and venue suited to their needs.
As well as addressing specific client content needs the programme drew on Ulster University Business School academics’ experience and expertise to deliver the latest academic research, thinking and good practice.
The MAP programme has delivered record satisfaction rates leading to increased staff retention which helps the group to deliver against their mission of delivering the finest in Irish hospitality with style and elegance.
For a number of years Deloitte have had a strategic partnership with Ulster University Business School, which has provided a fantastic platform to engage in the BrightStart Scheme together.
This is unique scheme which is the first level six apprenticeship in Northern Ireland and the first apprenticeship for Deloitte in the U.K.
It offers a unique blend of a degree in business and technology, alongside profession recognised qualifications and on the job learning.
Ulster University Business School have a very important role to play alongside Deloitte to help them deliver their strategic ambition and objectives for Belfast over the coming years.
Deloitte needed a partner who understands the culture of the firm as well as their needs and demands, hence Ulster University Business School was the perfect partner.
CME Group is the world’s largest derivatives exchange, with headquarters in Chicago and operating in over 150 countries.
The relationship between the Business School and CME Group through the launch of the Financial Innovation Lab and Financial Services Academy demonstrates the commitment to providing graduates with the opportunity for a great career in the financial sector.
Ulster University Business School is one of a few business schools in the UK and Ireland to offer direct use of the Bloomberg Professional service through its CME Group Foundation Financial Innovation Laboratory.
The relationship between the Business School and CME Group, specifically placement opportunities provided to students, has enabled graduates to have a better understanding of the financial services sector.
Business Engagement Unit
BC-09-202
Page contents

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/apprenticeships:
Take your employees' careers to the next level.
Find out how we can support your business to nurture talent and develop leaders through our funded higher level programmes.
Click below for important information about Results Day for Apprenticeship applicants
Ulster University is the leading provider of degree apprenticeships in Northern Ireland with more than 700 apprentices enrolled across our approved apprenticeship frameworks.
We deliver degree apprenticeships with employer partners including: AECOM, Allen & Overy, Almac, AllState, Bank of Ireland, Danske Bank, Deloitte, Energia, Farrans, Norbrook, PwC and Kainos.
All of this success is based on our strong partnerships with our employers, if you would like further information on how your organisation can get involved with us contact apprenticeships@ulster.ac.uk .
Apprentices develop the skills, knowledge and behaviours directly relevant to your business, often in key skills shortage areas
Degree Apprenticeships help attract and retain talented employees, providing a ladder of opportunity and progression - they are also a great way of improving the diversity of your workforce and social mobility
Apprentices work on live projects devised by you, them and our tutors - maximising tangible business benefits.
*Some apprenticeships may require a small employer contribution to cover the full fee cost.
A Degree Apprenticeship is a work-based training programme that leads to an Undergraduate or Postgraduate degree from Ulster University.
Apprentices divide their time between the workplace and University, applying what they learn in their daily lives and benefitting from the support of a mentor.
Degree Apprenticeships are part of the Department for the Economy's Higher Level Apprenticeship scheme, so Apprentices can complete their programme of study without incurring any tuition fees.
Apprentices work for our 170+ employer partners, so it's important to remember that securing a Degree Apprenticeship should be treated the same way as securing employment.
Through their own selection process, Employers determine which candidate is the best fit for their organisation, so the first step in securing an Apprenticeship involves finding  a suitable employer and securing a role with them.
Our Find an Apprenticeship page lists current Apprenticeship opportunities open for applications, and our Advice for Applicants page provides some guidance about searching for other organisations that aren't currently advertising but might be willing to support an apprentice.
Get started on your Apprenticeship journey
Everything you need to know as a current or prospective Apprenticeship Employer

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/business/engagement/business-leader-peer-mentoring:
An opportunity for you to enrich the learning and experience of Ulster University Business School postgraduate students.
The aim of this programme is to enrich the learning and experience of Ulster University Business School postgraduate students and provide a greater linkage between the Ulster University Business School and local business leaders.
This will be achieved through matching students (who will be mentees) with a business leader (who will be the mentor) who will provide them with a real life insight into the business world.
The role of the mentor is to share experiential knowledge, networks and to give honest and constructive feedback and advice which will help the mentee with their future personal and career development.
Mentors are not expected to help with any aspect of academic work.
Mentees are encouraged to shape their learning context depending on their individual aspirations.
The mentoring relationship aims to benefit both parties.
We aspire for mentees to leave the programme feeling inspired to aim high for the future.
We strive for business leaders to benefit through a sense of fulfilment by ‘giving back’ however, it could also lead to idea generation, knowledge accumulation and recruitment of high-quality candidates for future business endeavours.
The most important thing you can get out of the mentoring relationship is the opportunity to support another individual and make a real difference for the mentee in both their professional and personal life.
As a mentor you will have a chance to contribute to the development process of someone at an earlier phase in their career.
You will act as an independent ’third party’ advisor where you will share your best practices, good strategies, knowledge and experience.
Key benefits of being a mentor are:
The most important thing you can get out of the mentoring relationship is the chance to discuss issues with an independent ’third party’ who has skills and experience in the business world.
You can talk to your mentor about topics that may be difficult, awkward or impossible to discuss with your lecturers, friends, family, colleagues, your boss or your partner/husband/wife.
Having an external, ‘neutral’ person to discuss certain issues with can be easier, because they are not personally involved.
Key benefits of being a mentee are:
Dept of Mgmt, Leadership & Marketing
BC-09-211

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/flexible-education/professional/postgraduate-short-courses:
We offer a range of postgraduate short courses which can be taken individually or combined over a period of time towards a Postgraduate Certificate of Professional Development.
Each short course is worth credit points.
Details of credit points are available on the information about each short course.
Search for Short Courses
The Postgraduate Certificate of Professional Development is awarded when a combination of short courses worth 60 credit points in total have been successfully completed.
You can choose to complete one short course and then return to take a further course at a later stage (any credits will be retained for you).
To maintain currency, it is recommended that combinations of short courses leading to the award of the Postgraduate Certificate of Professional Development are completed within a five year timeframe.
Short courses are also available in a range of different formats to help meet the flexibility required by those currently in employment such as block (three full consecutive days during one week), weekly (morning, afternoons or evenings), staggered (three or four days across a twelve week semester) or online (with no need to attend a University campus).
Payments for each short course can also be made over a number of months.
Please contact us if you want to find out any further information about any of the short courses available.
E: flexed@ulster.ac.uk
This module aims to provide the scientific knowledge and skills necessary for understanding and implementing biodiversity management.
This short course develops essential skills, knowledge understanding of biomedical informatics in relation to basic applied research and practice.
To provide students with insight into the main concepts and principles of Building Information Modelling / Management.
To help develop skills and knowledge to support successful business change programmes within an organisation.
This course provides an understanding of the importance of clinical and research ethics and governance, including regulatory processes involved.
Provides opportunities to develop new approaches to resource management and building teams within schools.
This course introduces participants to the main stages of the conflict cycle and to key intervention strategies used to resolve conflict.
This course focuses on fundamental aspects of law and contractual procedures affecting professional practice in the construction industry.
To inform and equip students to effectively respond to the challenges that the financial services industry faces today.
This course provides an understanding of legal concepts, principles and rules relevant to businesses and the skills needed to apply them.
Explore and develop methodologies and approaches to support a solution-based design thinking approach to problem-solving.
Strategies for success in the digital era.
To provide learners with an understanding of the application of digital construction processes and technologies in the AECFM sector.
Focus on topical issues in the field of economic, social and cultural rights and will impart detailed knowledge of ESCRs from different perspectives.
This course provides core knowledge and understanding of the key concepts and lifecycle stages of emergency planning, response and resilience.
Understand key concepts, principles and challenges, and gain practical skills in critically evaluating effectively building AI-based applications.
Understand the legal framework guiding HR practices and learn to manage employment law risks and compliance in the workplace.
Understanding Employment Law: Building Knowledge to Navigate and Resolve Workplace Legal Issues.
This course provides an introduction into how energy is measured, techniques for saving energy and how to influence those around us in saving energy.
This course focuses on practice, methods planning of language teaching, to examine classroom practice, embed enhance creativity in the classroom.
This short course introduces participants to information technology and presentation skills relevant to the environmental manager/researcher.
This module provides knowledge and skills necessary to understand the impact of chemicals in the environment.
This course introduces participants to the events industry, the event planning process and the complexities involved in organising events.
An introduction to econometric theory techniques, especially linear regression analysis, hypothesis testing application with financial time series
This short course provides an introduction to the financial services industry with a focus on investments.
This course gives participants an overview of the primary treaty regimes and institutions which underpin the international human rights regime.
This course provides an advanced introduction to key concepts, ideas and debates in this field of study of peace and conflict studies.
This course introduces participants to the aims of transitional justice and the main transitional justice measures that seek to respond to mass abuse.
This module examines the methods by which data can be stored, accessed and manipulated in order to provide high quality databases for GI Systems
Explore core principles of gender and human rights law.
To provide students with the skills and understanding sufficient to be able to design, implement and critique data analysis of biomedical data.
This course focuses on advances in hydrogen safety technologies, including but not limited to prevention and mitigation strategies.
This course focuses on designing and delivering inclusive engagement opportunities to empower communities.
To equip students with a critical understanding of the key principles, technologies and applications of Biotechnology in various industrial sectors.
This course provides participants with the ability to select and apply appropriate methods and instrumentation for quality control/quality assurance.
Acquire an understanding of the laws governing intellectual property and the protection of data.
This short course is designed to develop students' understanding of current issues which shape practices in education across the globe.
For learners to creatively explore the potential of art therapy for their own artistic journey or as a basis for the Masters in Art Psychotherapy.
Develop students understanding of principles of personalised medicine encourage them to consider the fundamental aspects issues within this field.
To develop students' subjective knowledge base particularly in grammatical and phonetic knowledge and pedagogical skills.
Students will gain understanding of key concepts, principles and practical skills in critically evaluating and building knowledge-based applications.
Develops students' conceptual understanding of TESOL, by giving a solid theoretical underpinning regarding key second language learning.
Leadership at all levels of the school matters in enhancing student learning, helping improve learning and teaching in classrooms and schools.
Strategies for success in the digital age.
The aim of this course is to provide participants with a comprehensive framework of knowledge concerning the management and leadership of people.
Review modern manufacturing, time compression methodologies and current manufacturing systems - their specification, implementation and development.
This course introduces the theory and practice of GIS (Geographic Information Systems).
This course focuses on the fundamentals of hydrogen safety applicable to existing and foreseeable hydrogen and fuel cell systems and infrastructure.
This short course is designed to allow participants to master the twin tracks of managing a construction project and leading a business organisation.
Provides students with an understanding of project management and project management methods.
This course introduces the concepts of project management, examines the recognised practices involved in the project management function.
This course provides an understanding of the regulatory compliance issues critical to a role in financial services in the 21st Century.
This module addresses the scope of remotely-sensed images as another source of GIS data as well as extending mutual benefits of data integration.
Develop an understanding of planning and regeneration policy in terms of mitigating shocks and stresses and increasing adaptability to future change.
Explore a range of modern development and deployment concepts in the context of scalable and high performance computing services.
The aim of this course is to appreciate, analyse and evaluate current solar thermal and solar photovoltaic technologies.
Examine the principles, concepts and theories of strategic marketing management
This course contextualises the infrastructure deficit and critically appraises the innovative approaches to procuring infrastructure.
Exploring the digital-first consumer and the strategies, channels, and experiences that connect brands with people online.
Explore the intricate dynamics of the politics surrounding social policies welfare and bridge this gap between social policy and politics.
Designed for all students to help develop their abilities in critical reflection on their practice development application of curriculum theory.
This course provides participants with the necessary base of the key principles of tourism and hospitality.
This module provides an introduction to web-based GIS using a range of languages such as HTML, CSS and JavaScript.
This course will introduce participants to wind energy theory and technology, resource assessment and wind farm site development.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/research/collaboration-and-innovation/funding:
Many businesses choose to work with Ulster University through a direct paid-for consultancy option and our team can provide quotes and guidance on this service.
Funding programmes such as Innovation Vouchers run by Invest NI and Enterprise Ireland can help SME's access university expertise via a voucher worth up to £5,000/ €5,000 to deliver innovative solutions.
Help is also available for longer term projects of strategic, innovative and research focused development.
The Knowledge Transfer Partnerships programme grant rate for small and medium-sized enterprises is 67% of the full cost.
For large companies it is 50% and for third-sector organisations/not-for-profit organisations, e.g.
charities and social enterprises, it is 75%.
InterTradeIreland's Innovation Boost (formerly known as Fusion) programme offers up to £56,000 in funding for cross-border projects.
Ulster University have collaborated on over 600 consultancy  projects across Ireland, funded through innovation vouchers.
SMEs in Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland can apply for vouchers worth up to £5,000/€5,000 to enable them to access Ulster University's wide range of expertise and facilities.
The Innovation Voucher Scheme, run by Invest NI and Enterprise Ireland , is designed to help you tap into specialist knowledge in order to develop forward-thinking solutions, ideas to expand and improve or create new products, services and processes.
You do not need to be an Invest Northern Ireland or Enterprise Ireland client company to apply and businesses can be awarded up to a maximum of three innovation vouchers (terms and conditions apply).
A Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) programme provides funding for partnerships that address business challenges in any sector and any discipline – as long as they meet the KTP funding criteria.
Government funding is available for KTP (grant rate for small and medium-sized enterprises is 67% of the full cost.
charities and social enterprises, it is 75%) through Invest NI and Innovate UK.
Business of all sizes in most industries and commercial sectors can take part.
In 2018 an additional £30m was allocated to the KTP programme as part of the Government’s Industrial Strategy.
This substantial uplift in funding meant increasing the number of new projects from 300 to 500 nationally.
Invest NI also demonstrated its continued support by approving £4.9M KTP funding for the next five years.
In April 2019 a new injection of Innovate UK funding was allocated to KTPs aimed at boosting productivity particularly in the lower performing regions identified as Northern Ireland and Wales.
InterTradeIreland’s Innovation Boost scheme can help by providing support and funding for a science, engineering or technology graduate to work on a project for your company.
The graduate is employed by you and is based at your company throughout the project with mentoring from an experienced university academic or researcher and InterTradeIreland Innovation Boost consultant.
These projects are similar to Knowledge Transfer Partnerships but as InterTradeIreland Innovation Boost is all-island programme, the university which you are partnered with must be based in the opposite jurisdiction to your business.
Worth £39,000/€47,400 - typically in the area of process improvement.
Worth up to £56,000/€67,900 - typically in the area of new product/service development
Ulster University Business school and two Ulster Rugby players have partnered to produce Northern Ireland’s first South African ‘boerewors’ or sausage.
The funding to work with the University’s Business School was provided by an Innovation Voucher from Invest Northern Ireland.
Read article about this success story
TechstartNI supports innovative technology start ups in Northern Ireland with staged development funding and proof of concept grants.
R&D grants from organisations such as Invest NI help and Innovate UK can also help support business with finance for research and development.
Our research team also work closely with businesses on joint projects and access funding from appropriate Research Councils/Charities to support sector specific projects.
The Science Shop is an initiative run jointly by Ulster University and Queen's University and provides support for community organisations and social enterprises across Northern Ireland.
To find out more about innovation vouchers, other funding or KTP please contact us.
Innovation & Enterprise
Derry~Londonderry
MT106

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/research/collaboration-and-innovation/innovation-ulster-ltd:
Innovation Ulster Ltd.
(IUL) is a wholly owned knowledge and technology venturing company of Ulster University.
We work closely with external companies in a number of ways:
There are a number of funding support programmes available to support innovation and throughout the technology readiness development process.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/research/collaboration-and-innovation/case-studies:
Our researchers and academics have considerable business relevant experience across a range of sectors and disciplines and work with thousands of businesses each year in the delivery of effective solutions to help grow and develop their businesses.
Ulster University is at the cutting edge of providing practical, innovative business services – a selection of these case studies include:
A KTP that embedded a bespoke virtual 3D marketing system for simulating quarry equipment installations.
(Winner of Ulster University’s Impact Excellence Award for Knowledge Exchange 2017.)

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/research/collaboration-and-innovation/team:
BD-04-009
L236

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/epc:
A leading centre in developing economic policy across Northern Ireland and beyond.
The Ulster University Economic Policy Centre is an independent economic research centre whose aim is to produce evidence based research to inform policy development and implementation.
Find out more about the Economic Policy Centre and what we do.
Economic Policy Centre staff contact details.
View UUEPC Publications.
We provide a variety of services for businesses across Northern Ireland and beyond.
Designed to track the health of the Northern Ireland economy on a wide range of economic indicators.
Designed to monitor Northern Ireland and UK enterprise indicators and business demography.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/alumniandsupporters:
Graduation doesn't mean goodbye.
As a lifelong member of the Ulster University family, you enjoy a wide range of benefits, services, and support.
Discover what it means to be part of our alumni community.
Funded by the Department for the Economy, get the expertise to develop your career.
Applications for September 2025 now open.
Discover the benefits of staying connected after you graduate and services we offer UU alumni.
Update your contact details so you can keep in touch with your alumni community.
The Development and Alumni Relations Office is committed to fostering lasting relationships with Ulster University graduates and friends....
Donations from our alumni and supporters help us fund bursaries, scholarships, support initiatives and research that will change lives for...
We need your help
Keep up to date with the latest Alumni news and updates.
Find out more about upcoming events that may be of interest to Ulster University alumni and supporters.
Check out some images from our latest events
Purchase Ulster University branded gifts and merchandise on the Campus Clothing online store.
Follow UU Connects on LinkedIn
Discover alumni stories, event information, and opportunities to engage with and support the Ulster University community.
Request a replacement certificate, transcript or letter of confirmation.
Important information on IT systems you will be able to access after leaving Ulster University.
View information about Ulster University graduations.
Find out how to organise a reunion to reconnect with UU Classmates.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/open-days:
Join us this September to find out more about undergraduate study at Ulster.
Open Days are an opportunity for prospective students, their friends and families, to discover more about studying at Ulster University.
Explore your programme and career options by attending talks, join a campus tour and meet students and lecturers.
Come along and see for yourself why we are the UK and Ireland University of the Year, as voted by Times Higher Education Awards 2024.
Belfast campus : Thursday 4, Friday 5 and Saturday 6 September
Derry~Londonderry campus : Thursday 11, Friday 12 and Saturday 13 September
Coleraine campus : Friday 19 and Saturday 20 September
Get information for large school/college group bookings and join us for Open Days at our three amazing campuses.
Discover more about studying at Ulster University.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/skillup:
Employers across Northern Ireland require highly skilled professionals to drive their business forward.
Applications for September 2025 are open.
This project is funded by the Department for the Economy through the Skill Up programme.
The Skill Up programme aims to provide reskilling and upskilling opportunities to people across the north which will improve their skills, benefitting their employment opportunities and enhancing Northern Ireland’s continuously growing and diversifying economy.
Working in partnership with the Department for the Economy, we are offering a range of FREE courses to ensure you have the skills and expertise to develop your career.
We have a wide range of courses available across a number of sectors including Business, Education, Green Skills, Hospitality and Tourism, Life and Health Sciences, Software and Digital.
Browse through our full list of courses and apply now!
Limited places are available across all programmes.
Courses offered are subject to change.
To be eligible for a fully funded place under these programmes applicants must meet each of the following criteria :
Get the expertise with a Masters, Postgraduate Certificate or short course, funded by the Department for the Economy.
Explore our full range of courses with start dates throughout 2025.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/funded-postgrad-places:
Get in-demand expertise with a funded Postgrad opportunity.
You may be eligible to get your course fees funded by the Department for the Economy for the below Postgraduate programmes taught in Derry~Londonderry.
Get taught in the unique setting of a border city where knowledge and industry expertise will combine for an impactful learning experience.
Whether your interest is in Business or AI, we’re offering funded postgraduate-level courses designed to fast-track your expertise in today’s most in-demand fields.
Stand out with a MSc that fuses international accounting, analytics, and preparation for Chartered Accountants Ireland accreditation....
Limited Spaces Available
Are you ready to be a global business leader?
Get the expertise to drive success on an international scale.
Empowering future leaders to create and manage sustainable, purposeful businesses for the 21st century.
Learn to create and manage sustainable, purposeful businesses for the 21st century.
Exploring ethical principles and governance frameworks to ensure accountable AI in society.
Applications Closed
Gain practical and theoretical understanding of Artificial Intelligence and data visualisation, with no programming required....
Places are limited and open to applicants who:
Explore our full range of online, part-time, and full-time postgraduate programmes.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/clearing:
All you need to know about results day, and the options available to you.
Fill in our contact form and we will get back to you
Browse our courses available in Clearing and find out more.
This guide explains all the options open to you and how you can prepare for results day.
Any different requirements and communications from Ulster University are also explained, so you feel supported and ready.
Whether you’re choosing where to live, or want to understand your travel options to our three locations, we’ll break it all down for you.
Find out all you need to know about the finance options and support available.
We are the UK and Ireland University of the Year – and many other reasons why you should choose Ulster University.
If you are not from the UK or Ireland
Clearing applications are not available to students outside the United Kingdom and Republic of Ireland for September 2025.
For more information on opportunities available to International Students, visit our global site.
Degree apprenticeships offer you the opportunity to start a career while completing your undergraduate degree.
While you wait for Results Day, we want to share tips and information on student life from packing essentials and budgeting advice to making friends and navigating campus.
Useful information can be found on our results day guide.
If you still have a question, or would like to enquire about an available place, complete this enquiry form.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/news/2024/november/ulster-university-crowned-university-of-the-year-2024:
Times Higher Education Awards Ulster University as the Top University in the UK and Ireland.
Ulster University has been awarded ‘University of the Year 2024’, the most prestigious title of all by Times Higher Education.
For the first time in the University’s history, Ulster University is recognised as the top higher education institution in the UK and Ireland.
Known as the Oscars of the UK university sector, the Times Higher Education annual awards celebrate the best of higher education in the UK and Ireland.
The University of the Year accolade honours exceptional university performance, with this year’s award reflecting achievements during the 2022-23 academic year.
In September, Ulster University was shortlisted alongside five other top-ranking institutions: London Metropolitan University, University of Stirling, University of Leicester, University of Sunderland, and University of Surrey.
The awards attract hundreds of entries each year from universities across all corners of the UK and Ireland, that exemplify the talent, innovation, and commitment of individuals and teams across all aspects of university life.
Ulster University was hailed as a “force for good in fostering peace, prosperity and cohesion” and took the top spot in recognition of its role as an anchor institution in a region that has undergone rapid change in the quarter-century since the signing of the Good Friday Agreement.
The award honoured the completion of Ulster’s £364 million Belfast campus, creating a vital connection to a historically underserved community, backed up with a schools programme designed to boost higher education participation among the city’s young males.
The judges were also impressed by the securing of a €44.5 million (£37 million) investment from the Irish government for the development of Ulster’s Derry/Londonderry campus, making it a groundbreaking cross-jurisdictional project.
The significance of such efforts to ongoing peace and collaboration were underscored by Ulster’s role as host to the US president, Joe Biden, on his visit to mark the Good Friday Agreement’s 25th anniversary
Alongside this, they said Ulster has delivered impressive progress in research, particularly in medical technology and quantum computing, in teaching, student experience and graduate outcomes.
The judges said these achievements “demonstrated the university’s growing influence and status in the island of Ireland, and as a force for good in fostering peace, prosperity and cohesion”.
The top accolade recognises Ulster University for its ‘People, Place and Partnership’ strategy, which recommitted to maintaining a dual focus on research and teaching while driving social mobility and economic growth.
The university’s commitment to putting the student experience at the heart, led to achieving its highest rank in the history of UK domestic tables.
In what was a momentous year, the university secured a multi-million-pound Shared Island investment in a new teaching and student services building in Derry~Londonderry, which is set to expand an already thriving hub for health sciences, interdisciplinary training and practice in the North West.
The campus is preparing to graduate the first cohort of doctors from the Graduate Entry School of Medicine next year and offers the first Paramedic Science course in Northern Ireland meaning that Ulster University’s Derry~Londonderry campus provides the most comprehensive higher education healthcare offering in the UK and Ireland.
Additionally, the University marked the completion of its new state-of-the-art Belfast city centre campus, one of the largest higher education capital projects in Europe, recently named Building of the Year by the Royal Society of Ulster Architects.
A beacon of aspiration and an engine of innovation, the campus is transforming learning and teaching experiences while making a significant economic impact in the immediate area, across the city, and the wider region.
With a unique multi-campus model, Ulster University is also delivering on its ambition for an innovative drug discovery centre in Coleraine to complement the existing Biomedical Science and Pharmacology offering.
An expansive, semi-rural facility based on the north coast, the Coleraine campus is home to new programmes such as Adventure Sports and Golf Management alongside Arts, Humanities and Education.
In the year of the 25 th anniversary of the Belfast Good Friday Agreement the institution launched a one-of-its kind leadership programme, 25@25 which helped 25 graduates develop their full leadership potential.
Ulster University's vital role in Northern Ireland's journey from peace to prosperity over the last 25 years was acknowledged by the President of the United States of America when he selected the University as his only visit to the UK in April 2023 to mark the milestone.
Alongside the achievements of 2022/23, the institution continued to operate with the student experience at its heart, achieving its highest rank in the history of UK domestic tables.
Ulster University Vice-Chancellor Professor Paul Bartholomew said:
“We are incredibly proud and delighted to be announced as University of the Year by Times Higher Education.
These prestigious awards attract hundreds of entries from top institutions across the UK and Ireland, and this recognition reflects the hard work of our staff and the support of our student community across our campuses.
“I truly believe that Ulster University is an extraordinary organisation in every sense of the word, and in recent years we really began to realise our full potential.
Ulster University is a research-led, people centric, community-focused and values driven institution that believes in equality, celebrates diversity and fosters inclusion.
"Today, we are a University of and for the world, attracting the attention of presidents, politicians and changemakers.
“As a multi-campus University uniquely positioned in Northern Ireland, we play a pivotal role in driving forward economic prosperity and growth that creates opportunities and improves the quality of lives across the whole of our shared region.
“Our People, Place and Partnership strategy capitalises on that and emphasises our dual focus on research and teaching while driving social mobility.
We demonstrate the belief that though we inherit our past, we chose our future, and it is our mission to ensure that all of our students have all the skills they need to make a difference in the world.
”
Ulster University was previously shortlisted for University of the Year in 2021 by The Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide.
In June 2024, the University was recognised as the highest-ranking UK university for outreach activities, and fifth in the world overall, in the Times Higher Education Impact Rankings 2024.
This year marked the 20th anniversary of THE Awards celebrated at a glittering gala ball held at the International Convention Centre in Birmingham on Thursday, 28 November.
Ulster University’s recognition as University of the Year was one of 19 categories celebrated on the night.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/campuses/belfast:
See what's available on the Belfast campus.
Browse accommodation options in Belfast.
View sports facilities in Belfast.
Discover clubs and societies at Ulster University.
Learn more about the Students' Union in Belfast.
Take a virtual tour of the Belfast campus.
Discover what you could study in Belfast.
Discover undergraduate courses in Belfast.
Discover postgraduate courses in Belfast.
Discover what's on at the Belfast campus.
Discover what's on around Belfast.
Plan your journey to Belfast.
Belfast has been recognised for its vibrant evening offering and has achieved ‘Purple flag’ status.
This is awarded to cities which offer a safe and appealing after-dark offering, letting residents and visitors enjoy the city throughout the evening.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/campuses/coleraine:
Browse accommodation options in Coleraine.
View sports facilities at Coleraine.
Learn more about the Students' Union at Coleraine.
Take a virtual tour of the Coleraine campus.
With lots of water activities on the river Bann and surfing the Atlantic, discover what some of our students love to do in Coleraine .
Discover what's on at the Coleraine campus.
Discover what's on around Coleraine.
Plan your journey to Coleraine.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/campuses/sports-village:
Ulster University Sports Village is a hub for sporting excellence in Northern Ireland, and home to the University’s world-class indoor and outdoor facilities.
We are ambitious, enthusiastic and team players.
Meet Julie Nelson, who is a support assistant at the Sports Village, Jordanstown.
Julie’s passion comes from an established professional football career.
As part of the team, Julie works with everyone from school children to Olympic and Commonwealth athletes to further sporting excellence in Northern Ireland and beyond.
Julie Nelson
Support Assistant at the Sports Village, Jordanstown
Shore Rd,  Newtownabbey, BT37 0QB
On campus: Extension 22222 Off campus: 028 70123456
SafeZone is a free app that connects you to the University security team 24/7 if you ever need urgent help, first aid or if you have an emergency while on campus.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/campuses/derry-londonderry:
See what's available at Derry~Londonderry.
Browse accommodation options in Derry~Londonderry.
View sports facilities at Derry~Londonderry.
Learn more about the Students' Union at Derry~Londonderry.
Take a virtual tour of the Derry~Londonderry campus.
Discover undergraduate courses at Derry~Londonderry.
Discover postgraduate courses at Derry~Londonderry.
A unique city of culture, Derry~Londonderry always has lots going on.
Find out what our students like to do in the city .
Discover what's on at the Derry~Londonderry campus.
Discover what's on around Derry~Londonderry.
Plan your journey to Derry~Londonderry.
Derry~Londonderry has been recognised for its vibrant evening offering and has achieved ‘Purple flag’ status.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/faculties/arts-humanities-and-social-sciences:
Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences at Ulster University.
The Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences has a variety of schools, they all offer first class teaching in our world class facilities.
Belfast School of Art plays a central role in the cultural and creative life of the city.
We foster innovation...
The School of Arts and Humanities at Ulster offers you diverse study in the fields of Cinematic Arts, Creative Technologies,...
Offering a vibrant and inspirational environment to inform and support you on your journey to become an effective communicator....
Through our teaching we want to empower and inspire our students to reach their full potential in all areas of...
Ulster University provides an inspiring, engaging, and intellectually stimulating environment for law students at undergraduate, postgraduate, and CPD level....
Come study with us
The School of Applied Social and Policy Sciences is a leading global hub for learning, research and social innovation.
Watch the video to learn more from our staff and students about the Faculty and what we do.
Learn more about our visiting professors.
Intersections is our Postgraduate Journal for Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences.
We're currently calling for applicants to join our editorial...

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/faculties/computing-engineering-and-the-built-environment:
Faculty of Computing, Engineering and the Built Environment at Ulster University.
The School of Computing aims to provide students with a supportive environment for their studies, thus providing them with the...
Pioneering, innovative and creative are just a few words to describe our students in The Belfast School of Architecture and...
The School of Computing, Engineering and Intelligent Systems provides students with professionally relevant degrees to help graduates secure employment in...
The School of Engineering specialises in a broad multi-disciplinary approach to Engineering in both Education and Research; and its application...
Providing a state-of-the-art environment for research in Pervasive Computing and Artificial Intelligence.
Research themes and topics.
Faculty of Computing, Engineering and the Built Environment staff profiles.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/faculties/life-and-health-sciences:
As a leading provider of health-related education, with almost 6,500 students and approximately 250 academic staff, we offer an extensive portfolio of accredited degree and research programmes covering eight exciting yet diverse disciplines.
We are eight schools committed to improving quality of life by addressing some of the most important issues of our time including climate change, sustainability, peace building, poverty, and helping others by creating healthy and active societies.
Offering a range of healthcare, scientific and technical professions undergraduate and postgraduate programmes.
Help address challenges of the 21st Century by studying our innovative courses.
Learn from professionally qualified staff in state of the art facilities along with a close working relationship with professional bodies...
Community-Focused, Globally Ambitious Doctors.
Innovative teaching & research culture.
The best place to study your nursing degree.
Marrying modern and innovative teaching with state of the art facilities, helping you to work as a pharmacist in today's...
Offering flexible and interesting courses, we work in partnership with our students to ensure that our courses benefit our students...
Our high-quality and innovative courses allow us to lead, inspire and shape the future of sport.
Whether improving the quality of life or the quality of our environment, life and health science students really do make a difference.
Well-established links with government agencies, public bodies, and the private sector, play an important role in the design of our high-quality provision.
Faculty of Life and Health Sciences staff profiles.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/faculties/ulster-university-business-school:
Empowering students to have an entrepreneurial mindset, driving opportunity and growing a talented, skilled pipeline.
Our degree programmes are shaped by our world-leading research.
We are ranked in the top 25% of UK business schools for world leading and internationally excellent research, with 100% of our research recognised as having outstanding or very considerable impact (REF, 2021).
Strong professional practice focus, whilst also ensuring active engagement in applied research.
Based in Belfast and Coleraine, delivering within the specialisms of hospitality, tourism, travel, events, leisure, food innovation, food business and...
Located at Magee campus,  Derry~Londonderry, we offer a range of courses at Bachelors, Masters and Executive levels.
Our research and business collaborations enrich and inform our teaching provision, delivering on innovation and good management practice....
Ulster University Business School is a member of AACSB International - The Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business
AACSB International is a global association of leaders in education and business dedicated to supporting and advancing quality business education worldwide.
Through membership, accreditation, research, thought leadership, professional development, and advocacy, AACSB partners with over 1,500 organizations, from more than 90 countries globally.
Membership or participation in the Global Education Alliance does not imply accreditation.
At Ulster University Business School we aim to empower staff, students and  stakeholders to become sustainable future leaders by integrating sustainability into research, education, and engagement.
Our programmes are designed so that investment in people is realised quickly and consistently.
Working with industry and academic institutions globally to support our student talent through placements, projects and international exchange.
This Laboratory incorporates 20 Bloomberg terminals that provide students and visitors with hands-on experience of a dynamic trading environment comparable...
An interdisciplinary research community advancing the industry’s understanding of how to innovate, understand consumer behaviour and inform policy....
Ulster University Business School (UUBS) is a leading centre for entrepreneurial education, research, and impact.
Ulster University Business School staff profiles.
Ulster University Business School has been awarded The Small Business Charter (SBC ).
The SBC award celebrates business schools that play an effective role in supporting small businesses, local economies and student entrepreneurship.
Ulster University Business School is a member of AACSB International - The Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business .

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/doctoralcollege:
Funded opportunities exist throughout the year and our Annual Scholarship Competition runs from December to February each year....
If you plan to self-fund your studies or have a sponsor who will fund your research study, you may apply...
Hear our recent graduands and current PhD Researchers talk about their experiences at Ulster.
The latest Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES 2025) has placed Ulster University 2nd in the UK for postgraduate researcher satisfaction.
The national benchmarking exercise surveyed postgraduate research students from 89 universities across the UK about their postgraduate research experience.
Stay up-to-date with the Doctoral College at Ulster
Our PhD Researchers share their favourite memories from their time at Ulster.
Immigration monitoring information for postgraduate researchers with Student Route Visas.
Information on the Graduate Route Visa
Information for Tier 4/Student Visa holders wishing to extend their visa to complete their research studies
The Doctoral College regularly reviews research degree provision and has mechanisms to engage researchers in the review process.
Details of the process for quality assuring research degree programmes
Quality Enhancement Review
Doctoral College Communication and Representation Structures
Detailing the Doctoral College's Framework for EDI at Ulster
Follow us to stay updated, discover fresh content, and explore more of what you love—right from your feed.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/research/hub/framework:
Find out about CPD opportunities for research staff.
At Ulster University we recognise the importance of continuous professional and career development and we are committed to providing opportunities, structured support, encouragement, and time for researchers to engage in personal and professional development.
You should record your CPD activity and build your own personal CPD plan on the LEARN portal accessed through your People XD account.
Through the LEARN portal, you will be able to search for learning opportunities, book yourself onto learning events, complete mandatory eLearning activities, and build your own personal CPD plan.
Ulster University's Learning Calendar for all staff
The Vitae Researcher Development Framework (RDF) is a widely endorsed framework underpinning professional development for researchers at all levels.
It sets out the knowledge, behaviours and attributes of successful researchers.
Success means different things to different people.
It’s up to you to decide what your priorities are, how you need to develop and how that can be achieved.
You can use the Vitae Researcher Development Framework (RDF) to help you to:
Ulster University holds institutional membership of Vitae.
This enables our researchers to have full access to the range of Vitae’s online resources.
You will need to register on the Vitae website using your institutional (Ulster University) email address.
‘Advancing your Research Career – Strategies for Research Leadership’ is a self-led elearning package which provides engaging, flexible and interactive training in the key capabilities that underpin successful research leadership.
Taking a streamlined, modular approach the course helps ensure that researchers’ career goals are well-articulated and supported by a professional knowledge base.
Using case studies, video interviews, thought-provoking scenarios and activities, and opportunities to reflect and develop action plans, the programme supports researchers to build a clear strategy for their individual career development, and to shape their career as a leader of research.
The programme consists of ten core modules:
This course is designed for maximum flexibility - the modules can be taken together or separately in any order.
In the drop-down menu, you will find the ‘Advancing your Research Career’ pathway.
PURE is an online research portal available to all academic and research staff and PhD researchers at Ulster.
Your PURE profile is created automatically when you join the University.
You can login to your PURE profile via PURE Support.
PURE profiles are also visible externally through Ulster University’s PURE Portal.
Staff and PhD Researchers can manage their individual profile by recording research outcomes such as:
It is important that you maintain an up-to-date PURE profile if you wish to apply for promotion through the University’s Academic and CRS Promotions Schemes.
PURE is designed to maintain an ongoing and permanent historical record of research activity at Ulster University.
It aggregates research information from numerous internal and external sources and ensures the data is trusted, comprehensive and accessible in real time.
This allows the University to build reports, carry out performance assessments, manage researcher profiles, and enable research networking and expertise discovery.
Research staff are provided with professional learning opportunities to gain Associate Fellowship of the Higher Education Academy through the taught route (First Steps to Teaching) or the experiential route (Enhance).
These pages aim to provide supervisors with resources and guidance to facilitate the development of a successful PhD Researcher/Supervisor relationship.
The Research Excellence Awards acknowledge and reward members of staff for outstanding contributions to research and scholarly activity.
The Research Excellence Awards comprise of the following categories:
The research mentoring programme is designed to support academic and research staff in their professional development.
Mentors are available to provide support across all aspects of research including research outputs, funding, impact and public engagement.
Mentoring usually takes place on a one-to-one basis over a six-month period.
The Developmental Appraisal Review gives support and direction for your personal development and career pathway in line with best practice and our commitment to the Researcher Development Concordat.
To support your continued learning, an appraisal e-learning module for managers and staff is available below.
Please ensure that you are logged into your staff portal before using the links.
Access the Development Appraisal Review Form.
The Contract Research Staff Promotions Scheme is currently under review.
Further information will follow.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/estates:
Estates Services’ mission is to deliver an inspiring estate and exceptional campus experiences for Ulster University’s staff, students and visitors.
In Estates Services, we develop, operate and maintain the buildings and grounds across four campuses with 245,000m2 of accommodation including 5000 rooms in 83 buildings and 141 hectares of land.
Estates Services provides a range of services with the aim of creating, operating and maintaining a world-class physical environment to...
Estates Services
Find out about our Staff within Estates Services.
You can use the Estates Helpdesk to book a meeting room, request a visitor pass, maintenance, cleaning or report a fault
Invida
For urgent matters out of hours – call +44 28 7012 3456
With over 25,000 students and approximately 2,000 staff, the University’s day to day activities have a considerable impact on the environment.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/about:
We are a university with a national and international reputation for excellence, innovation and regional engagement, making a major contribution to the economic, social and cultural development of Northern Ireland.
Our core business activities are teaching and learning, widening access to education, research and innovation and technology and knowledge transfer.
Look at our courses and see how we're preparing students for tomorrow's world today.
Learn more about key areas within Ulster University - who we are, how we work and what we stand for.
Get more information about Ulster University, review our strategic plan and download recent annual reports.
We are at the forefront of sustainability, integrating meaningful practices throughout all University activities to create a resilient, sustainable future...
Get more information on key dates in the Ulster University calendar throughout the year.
Ulster University has a strong sense of civic purpose with values grounded in helping to advance society in Northern Ireland....
We are one University with three distinct campuses across Northern Ireland - Belfast, Coleraine and Derry ~ Londonderry, as well...
Leading the continuous enhancement of a high quality Ulster University learner experience.
Find out more about the Vice-Chancellor, Chancellor and Senior Officers.
Find the key contact details for Ulster University.
Find out about open opportunities at Ulster University.
Details on governance structures and regulations for the University.
The Office of the University Secretary is responsible for introducing modifications to the Ordinances and Regulations.
Comprehensive secretariat and advice service to Council and its core Committees.
The University establishes university-wide strategies, policies and procedures in order to support its vision and core strategic aims promoting consistency,...

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/about/contact-us:
The following contact telephone numbers and links are available for queries relating to Admissions , Applying to Ulster, Accommodation and contacting a specific member of staff .
Please select as appropriate:
If you have applied to a full-time undergraduate course (via UCAS) or directly via our website for full-time/part-time postgraduate courses or part-time undergraduate courses and have a query, please contact our Admissions Team .
For information on how to apply for a course please visit our Study with Ulster pages or email your request to admissions@ulster.ac.uk
For information on Accommodation at any of the University's campuses please check out our accommodation website or if you have a question regarding accommodation please email: accommodation@ulster.ac.uk
For information on Library Services at Ulster University please check the Services & Information page on the Library website .
For further details about contacting Library staff please consult the Library's Contacting Library Staff page.
If you require contact details for a specific department or member of staff, please go to our departmental index .
Call the University Switchboard on +44 28 7012 3456
2-24 York Street, Belfast, BT15 1AP
Cromore Rd, Coleraine, BT52 1SA
Northland Rd, Londonderry,  BT48 7JL
5th Floor Centre City 5-7 Hill Street Birmingham B5 4UA
Tel: +44 (0)845 0747965
St James' House 10 Rosebery Avenue Holborn London EC1R 4TF

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/peopleandculture/recruitment/jobs:
Ulster University is inspired by the spirit of its people - staff, students and stakeholders alike.
It is not the institution, the buildings or even our heritage and past glories that are of primary importance, it is people.
They are the source of our strength and the wider and deeper our roots, the stronger and taller we stand.
Current vacancies open to all applicants are advertised via the link below.
Advertised vacancies open to all applicants.
The University is an equal opportunities employer and welcomes applicants from all sections of the community.
Appointment will be made on merit.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/about/key-calendar-dates:
A full listing of events happening across the University can be found at Ulster University events

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/faculties:
Ulster University is organised into four faculties, each housing a number of subject areas.
You can review programmes and courses across all our faculties to identify subject areas you you want to engage with.
We are a leading centre for entrepreneurial education, research, and impact, committed to supporting individual, organisational and societal potential....

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/confucius:
The Confucius Institute at the Ulster University (CIUU) was established in 2011 to develop academic, cultural, economic and social ties between Northern Ireland and China.
Since then it has set up a network of Confucius Classrooms in schools across Northern Ireland teaching Mandarin Chinese and culture.
The connection between Ulster and Chinese universities has deepened cooperation in the exchange of teachers and students, establishing research and development platforms, and sharing teaching ideas and other resources.
Such cooperation continues to promote innovation in talent cultivation, scientific research, business connections and cultural heritage.
Since its inception in 2004 the Confucius Institute has expanded to become a global network of Institutes.
Introducing Chinese language and culture into schools across Northern Ireland.
Contact the Confucius Institute.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/finance:
The Finance Department manages the University’s financial obligations and internal finance processes and provides financial advice and support to academic and administrative staff.
Information on Tuition Fees and How to Pay your Tuition Fees, plus guidance on money management as well as sources for financial assistance.
Finance information for Ulster University staff.
Information for those Supplying to Ulster, Supplier Payments and External Examiners.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/flexible-education:
Ulster University is working with primary and post primary schools across Northern Ireland to engage and inspire the next generation....
View contact information for the Schools Outreach Team.
Schools Outreach at Ulster University.
Ulster University’s educational outreach is designed to raise aspirations, widen participation and increase attainment across primary and post primary sectors....
Ulster University annually offers amazing opportunities to all our school partners both through a virtual medium and face to face...
Manchester United Foundation and Ulster University team up to engage and inspire young people.
Ulster University encourages and welcomes applications from students who have experienced care and will advise young people who have been...
A range of short course opportunities may be accessed through the Centre for Flexible Education.
We offer a range of postgraduate short courses which can be taken individually or combined over a period of time...
We work with individuals, business, industry, and third sector organisations to identify learning needs, provide training courses, develop bespoke programmes...
Find out more about the people who work in our Professional & Continuing Education Team.
The Graduate Leadership Programme is open exclusively to Ulster University graduates.
University/Higher Education is available to everyone regardless of age, not all students leave school and enter full time education....
We recognise that learning does not stop when you leave formal education, and we work with employers to understand organisation...

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/learningenhancement:
The Principles and Qualities that collectively define our approach to learning, teaching and the student experience.
Register for upcoming professional development opportunities led by the Learning Enhancement Directorate.
Guidance on key priorities for learning and teaching to effectively support student learning and the student experience
Each faculty has a dedicated team from within the Learning Enhancement Directorate who can support you.
A series of simple, one-page resources to support staff to develop their Learning and Teaching practice
Development projects led by the Learning Enhancement Directorate in response to CAQE data and other development needs
Details of Ulster University’s internal learning and teaching awards, together with details of national award schemes.
Browse the Celebration of Professional Learning and Recognition Yearbooks
The Learning Matters Community of Practice, including opportunities to contribute to the Blog and Spotlight series, as well as get...
Examples of how key priorities for learning and teaching have been embedded in practice to effectively support student learning...
The Learning Enhancement Directorate Ethics Filter Committee considers pedagogic research being undertaken by staff at the University...
The Directorate is focused on continuous enhancement of Learning and Teaching to improve student outcomes.
Our Directorate works collaboratively across four centres, each of which is described below
Inspires, develops and recognises colleagues who support the UU learning experience
Responsible for the promotion, development and support of digital learning within the university.
Leads on the assurance of standards and the design, review and approval of curriculum to enhance the learner experience.
Strategically lead and empower the Ulster University community to continuously evaluate and enhance learning, teaching and the student experience....

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/peopleandculture:
A dedicated team of professionally qualified HR professionals are available to provide advice to Ulster University employees on the full range of HR related issues.
Ulster Excellence Awards reflect the people at the heart of our university and recognise the individual and collective contributions that make a difference in our University and beyond.
Log in to your HR account to manage your information.
Find the People and Resourcing partners for your faculty/department.
The Values statements were co-created by Ulster University colleagues throughout 2019.
Over 20% of colleagues contributed to the Values revision which means almost 600 colleagues engaged and supported the process.
The latest opportunities at Ulster University.
The university offers a wide range of employment opportunities for individuals with energy, integrity and a genuine passion for the work of the University.
Ulster University offers staff members a wide range of Employee Benefits that everyone can avail of.
Ulster University is an open and inclusive institution that celebrates and welcomes diversity.
The Health, Safety and Wellbeing team are committed to promoting health, safety and wellbeing for staff, students and visitors alike....
As a supportive employer, Ulster University offers staff access to various forms of paid and unpaid leave to deal with...
Continuously employed members of staff may apply to work flexibly and balance both work and home life.
Guidance on Pensions.
This vision supports the University’s commitment within our Health, Safety and Wellbeing Policy ‘framework’ to create a culture that “ensures and promotes the health, safety and the physical, mental, social and emotional wellbeing of all staff, students and partners”.
The University offers a range of development opportunities supporting conditions where we can all flourish and achieve.
Empowers you to enhance your potential across your career; whether you’re looking to advance your career, improve your interpersonal skills...
At Ulster our BRAVE leadership culture framework outlines the foundations and expectations of leading across all levels from self through...
Coaching & Mentoring can be used to great effect at many different touch points in our work life, as a...
Developing teams to be Values led with effective collaboration and inclusive conversations.
Support learning and resources to help you in understanding the DAR process and how to have an effective appraisal meeting....
At Ulster University we seek to create a culture that enables and supports our academic staff to develop their careers,...
Through the guides and tools on this page you will know how to deal with interpersonal problems that may arise during the course of your employment.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/sustainability:
We embed sustainability across all aspects of University life.
We drive positive change through teaching, research, campus operations, and outreach activities, working together to create a sustainable and equitable future for all.
At Ulster University, we are driving positive change for people and the planet.
Explore below how we're making a difference.
Ulster University have been selected as Finalists in the Nature & Biodiversity category of the Business in the Community Northern Ireland's Responsible Business Awards 2025.
Explore Ulster University’s latest Sustainability Report, where we demonstrate our progress towards the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals.
Each year, we highlight our achievements, impact, and ongoing commitment to building a more sustainable world.
Discover our Sustainability Action Plan, outlining key commitments and steps to embed sustainability across teaching, research, campus operations, and outreach activities.
It guides our efforts to reduce environmental impact, promote social responsibility, and build an inclusive, resilient community.
Our Environmental Sustainability Policy Statement outlines our strategic approach to reducing carbon emissions, minimising waste, conserving resources, enhancing biodiversity, and embedding sustainability into the curriculum.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/privacy-policy:
Ulster University Privacy notice.
Ulster.ac.uk (www.ulster.ac.uk) is provided by Ulster University.
The Office of the University Secretary is the data controller for ulster.ac.uk (www.ulster.ac.uk).
A data controller determines how and why personal data is processed.
The personal data we collect from you may include the following:
We use third party cookies, including Google Analytics, to collect information about how you use Ulster.ac.uk.
This includes IP addresses.
The data is anonymised before being used for analytics processing.
This includes anonymised information about:
We do not store your personal information through analytics information (for example your name or address).
We will not identify you through analytics information, and we will not combine analytics information with other data sets in a way that would identify who you are.
We continuously test and monitor our data protection controls to make sure they’re effective and to detect any weaknesses.
We partner with Microsoft Clarity and Microsoft Advertising to capture how you use and interact with our website through behavioral metrics, heatmaps, and session replay to improve and market our products/services.
Website usage data is captured using first and third-party cookies and other tracking technologies to determine the popularity of products/services and online activity.
Additionally, we use this information for site optimization, fraud/security purposes, and advertising.
For more information about how Microsoft collects and uses your data, visit the Microsoft Privacy Statement .
We collect information to see how you use the site and our digital services.
We do this to help:
We also collect data in order to:
The legal basis for processing personal data in relation to site security is our legitimate interests, and the legitimate interests of our users, in ensuring the security and integrity of ulster.ac.uk.
The legal basis for processing anonymised cookies data such as data for Google Analytics is your consent.
The legal basis for processing all other personal data is that it’s necessary:
The data we collect may be shared with other agencies and public bodies.
It may also be shared with our technology suppliers, for example our student software providers and customer record management systems.
We will not:
We only allow 3rd parties to handle your data if we are satisfied they have taken appropriate measures to protect your data.
We also impose contractual obligations to ensure they protect your personal data.
We will share your data if we are required to do so by law - for example, by court order, or to prevent fraud or other crime.
We will only retain your personal data for as long as:
Our services are not designed for, or intentionally targeted at, children 13 years of age or younger.
We do not intentionally collect or maintain data about anyone under the age of 13.
We design, build and run our systems to make sure that your data is as safe as possible at all stages, both while it’s processed and when it’s stored.
All personal data is stored in the European Economic Area (EEA).
Data collected by cookies and Google Analytics may be transferred outside the EEA for processing.
We are committed to doing all that we can to keep your data secure.
We have set up systems and processes to prevent unauthorised access or disclosure of your data - for example, we protect your data using varying levels of encryption.
We also make sure that any third parties that we deal with keep all personal data they process on our behalf secure.
You have the right to request:
You can also:
If you have any of these requests, get in contact with our Data Protection Officer.
Ulster.ac.uk contains links to other websites.
This privacy notice only applies to ulster.ac.uk.
If you go to another website from this one, read the privacy policy on that website to find out what it does with your information.
If you come to ulster.ac.uk from another website, we may receive personal information from the other website.
You should read the privacy policy of the website you came from to find out more about this.
Contact the Data Protection Officer if you:
The data protection officer can be contacted at gpdr@ulster.ac.uk
Get more information on our GDPR policies .
Ulster University is a registered charity (registered with the Charity Commission for Northern Ireland NIC100166).
The Data Controller for the University is the University Secretary.
Your data (your name, contact details and any other information that you provide to us, including information about your engagement with the University) is held securely by the Development and Alumni Relations Office of Ulster University on its database.
All data held on this database is treated confidentially in accordance with the provisions of the Data Protection Act 1988.
The Development and Alumni Relations Office may use this data to notify you of University alumni activities, benefits and services; to invite you to participate in research; and to advise you of academic and fundraising programmes.
Anonymised data may be used for statistical purposes.
The Development and Alumni Relations Office obtains data, including financial data, from third party sources which assists us in organising and planning our fundraising programmes.
Your data will not be passed to third parties for marketing purposes.
We are required to gather your contact details in order to process payments for merchandise/tickets and donations.
In order to manage the way in which we communicate with you, please contact alumni@ulster.ac.uk or call 028 9536 7486.
Alternatively, you may wish to write to us at the following address:
Alumni Relations Assistant Development and Alumni Relations Office Ulster University York Street Belfast BT15 1ED
The Data Protection Officer provides independent advice and monitoring of our use of personal information.
You can also make a complaint to the Information Commissioner , who is an independent regulator.
Ulster University’s registration number is Z6533200.
We may change this privacy policy.
In that case, the ‘last updated’ date at the bottom of this page will also change.
Any changes to this privacy policy will apply to you and your data immediately.
If these changes affect how your personal data is processed, Ulster University will take reasonable steps to let you know.
Last update on 20 May 2022.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/accessibility:
This accessibility statement applies to www.ulster.ac.uk Ulster University is committed to making its website accessible, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018.
Due to the size and complexity of the University's web presence this is an ongoing process.
If you have any questions or feedback regarding the accessibility of this site, or if you experience any difficulty using it, please contact the web development manager Using this website This website is run by Ulster University.
We want as many people as possible to be able to use this website.
For example, that means you should be able to: zoom in up to 300% without the text spilling off the screen navigate most of the website using just a keyboard navigate most of the website using speech recognition software listen to most of the website using a screen reader (including the most recent versions of JAWS, NVDA and VoiceOver) We’ve also made the website text as simple as possible to understand.
AbilityNet has advice on making your device easier to use if you are disabled.
Disability support Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Unit Our Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Unit offers a range of support and advice for staff.
The support available includes: Reasonable Adjustment Protocol Staff disAbility Network Student Wellbeing Student Wellbeing offer a wide range of support and advice to disabled students and also to parents, staff and external agencies supporting students.
The support available includes: Assistive technology Alternative formats for library resources Evacuation Guidance and PEEPs How accessible this website is We know some parts of this website are not fully accessible: you cannot modify the line height or spacing of text most older PDF documents are not fully accessible to screen reader software live video streams do not have captions some of our online forms are difficult to navigate using just a keyboard Feedback and contact information If you need information on this website in a different format like accessible PDF, large print, easy read, audio recording or braille: email digital@ulster.ac.uk We’ll consider your request and get back to you in two days.
If you cannot view the maps on our campus locations pages, please contact us for directions.
Reporting accessibility problems with this website We’re always looking to improve the accessibility of this website.
If you find any problems not listed on this page or think we’re not meeting accessibility requirements, contact the web development team.
Enforcement procedure Equality Commission for Northern Ireland (ECNI) is responsible for enforcing the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 (the ‘accessibility regulations’).
If you’re not happy with how we respond to your complaint, contact Equality Commission for Northern Ireland (ECNI) .
Technical Information Ulster University is committed to making its website accessible, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
Compliance Status This website is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.1 AA standard, due to the non-compliances and exemptions listed below.
Non-accessible content The content listed below is non-accessible for the following reasons.
Non-compliance with the accessibility regulations Some images do not have a text alternative, so people using a screen reader cannot access the information.
This fails WCAG 2.1 success criterion 1.1.1 (non-text content).
We plan to add text alternatives for all images by the end of December 2022.
When we publish new content we make sure our use of images meets accessibility standards.
Disproportionate burden Ulster University is not claiming disproportionate burden for any issues on www.ulster.ac.uk.
Content that’s not within the scope of the accessibility regulations PDFs and other documents Some of our PDFs and Word documents are essential to providing our services.
For example, we have PDFs with information on how users can access our services, and forms published as Word documents.
By March 2023, we plan to either fix these or replace them with accessible HTML pages.
The accessibility regulations do not require us to fix PDFs or other documents published before 23 September 2018 if they’re not essential to providing our services.
Any new PDFs or Word documents we publish strive to meet accessibility standards.
Live video We do not plan to add captions to live video streams because live video is exempt from meeting the accessibility regulations .
Third party content Third party content displayed on our website that's under someone else’s control and which we have not paid for or developed is exempt from meeting the accessibility regulations .
Examples on ulster.ac.uk include feeds from social media channels, chat bot services and DiscoverUni widgets on Undergraduate courses.
How we tested this website We currently use automated testing to drive most of our improvements to accessibility on our site.
Automated testing can't find everything that could be improved, but is rarely wrong about what it does find.
This website is scanned and tested every day using Funnelback and every five days using Silktide.
The findings from the Funnelback and Silktide audits are addressed by our Web Development Team on a regular basis.
We used Funnelback and Silktide to test all pages on this site and also manually reviewed the most commonly visited pages.
We tested: our main website platform, available at www.ulster.ac.uk We also test a selection of the most visited pages on our website using the WAVE Web Accessibility Evaluation Tool which facilitates human evaluation of web content, and axe DevTools to identify issues during development.
What we’re doing to improve accessibility We have a rolling programme of updating content in accordance with the guidelines set out by the WCAG.
This statement was prepared on 30 July 2020.
It was last updated on 24 August 2022.
This accessibility statement applies to www.ulster.ac.uk
Ulster University is committed to making its website accessible, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
If you have any questions or feedback regarding the accessibility of this site, or if you experience any difficulty using it, please contact the web development manager
This website is run by Ulster University.
For example, that means you should be able to:
We’ve also made the website text as simple as possible to understand.
Our Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Unit offers a range of support and advice for staff.
The support available includes:
Student Wellbeing offer a wide range of support and advice to disabled students and also to parents, staff and external agencies supporting students.
We know some parts of this website are not fully accessible:
If you need information on this website in a different format like accessible PDF, large print, easy read, audio recording or braille:
We’ll consider your request and get back to you in two days.
We’re always looking to improve the accessibility of this website.
Equality Commission for Northern Ireland (ECNI) is responsible for enforcing the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
This website is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.1 AA standard, due to the non-compliances and exemptions listed below.
The content listed below is non-accessible for the following reasons.
Some images do not have a text alternative, so people using a screen reader cannot access the information.
Ulster University is not claiming disproportionate burden for any issues on www.ulster.ac.uk.
Some of our PDFs and Word documents are essential to providing our services.
We do not plan to add captions to live video streams because live video is exempt from meeting the accessibility regulations .
Third party content displayed on our website that's under someone else’s control and which we have not paid for or developed is exempt from meeting the accessibility regulations .
We currently use automated testing to drive most of our improvements to accessibility on our site.
We tested:
We also test a selection of the most visited pages on our website using the WAVE Web Accessibility Evaluation Tool which facilitates human evaluation of web content, and axe DevTools to identify issues during development.
We have a rolling programme of updating content in accordance with the guidelines set out by the WCAG.
Digital Learning at Ulster University Accessibility Statement and Guidance 1.1 Accessibility Statement On 23 September 2018, the EU Web Accessibility Directive became UK law.
A requirement of the legislation is that each public sector body will have a statement regarding accessibility digital content on their websites and this applies to VLEs.
This statement was last updated on 21 August 2020.
Ulster University currently has a general accessibility statement at https://www.ulster.ac.uk/accessibility New digital learning web content comes under the new law with effect from 24th September 2019.
In this respect, static content in the following web-based digital learning systems are affected: Blackboard Learn; Turnitin; Panopto; Qwickly; Office 365.
In accordance with the new legislation, Ulster University will provide accessibility guidance and digital learning content in formats that comply with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
Our digital learning accessibility response is based on the sector guidance issued by Jisc : Our digital learning accessibility guidance does the following: helps users adapt to their needs; identifies content that is exempt for reason of ‘disproportionate burden’ of adjustment, falling back to adjustment by request under the University general guidance; explains the complexity of adjustment for digital learning systems in which the authors of teaching, learning and assessment content are many and are distributed across the University.
The guidance will be reviewed and updated each semester by the Digital Learning Sub Committee with recommendations being approved through the earning and Teaching Committee and Senate.
Accessibility Guidance Your Browser Enhance your accessibility by using the accessibility features in your web browser.
For example, you can adjust your browser to easily change the display size of the current page.
General advice: Better Web Browsing: Tips for Customizing Your Computer from W3C Chrome: Use Chrome with accessibility extensions Edge: Ease of Access in Microsoft Edge Firefox: Accessibility features in Firefox – Make Firefox and web content work for all users Safari: Accessibility on the Mac – includes Safari Your device’s operating system Configure your computer, laptop, or mobile device so that you can magnify details, have the computer readout interface elements aloud, change the colour scheme, and many other aspects.
General advice: My Computer – My Way (from AbilityNet) MacOS: Mac Accessibility Support iOS (iPhone / iPad): iPhone and iPad Accessibility Support Windows: Windows accessibility ChromeOS: Turn on Chromebook accessibility features Android: Android accessibility overview Blackboard Learn (Blackboard or the VLE) Blackboard Learn (referred to colloquially as Blackboard) is Ulster’s centrally supported Virtual Learning Environment (VLE).
Blackboard is a third-party product, designed and developed to conform with the internationally recognised Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.0 Level AA as well as the US Section 508 standards.
As a result, its accessibility design is good but it nonetheless pre-dates the new UK legislation and areas of accessibility may arise that are not yet known.
The University is currently supporting its content creators (staff) with guidance and training on the creation of accessible learning, teaching and assessment resources.
The content you will find on Blackboard has been uploaded by our user community of hundreds of University staff.
As such the accessibility of content may vary between modules and content creators.
Should you experience an accessibility issue, it should be referred for action/assistance under the routing advised by the general University statement.
Third-party content from other technology providers is displayed in Blackboard.
Many will have their own good practice on accessibility but may not be fully compliant with the new legislation.
In these cases, should you experience an accessibility issue, it should be referred for action/assistance under the routing advised by the general University statement.
As Blackboard is a third-party product the University will respond to accessibility issues and issue regular updates to this guidance.
The following custom adjustments are available to you in your user Blackboard interface and may help enhance your accessibility experience: change colours, contrast levels and fonts zoom in up to 300% without the text spilling off the screen except where content has been created by a user in such a way to not make this possible (for example within a non-responsive table) navigate the website using just a keyboard navigate the website using speech recognition software listen to most of the website using a screen reader.
Guides are available from Blackboard on the following topics (follow the embedded links): Understanding the structure and tag use of Blackboard pages Using ARIA based landmarks in Blackboard Keyboard navigation in Blackboard Using Screen readers with Blackboard Using Quick Links in Blackboard to navigate the current page Using Blackboard with a screen reader University-supported digital learning technologies The following digital tools and technologies are supported by the University and have standalone accessibility statements and best practice guides to explain how the software supports accessibility.
Blackboard Collaborate Ultra Turnitin Panopto - The following link outlines the key Panopto features to increase accessibility Qwickly Office 365 Non-compliant content Blackboard’s Voluntary Product Accessibility Report includes information regarding where the product does not meet the full WCAG 2.0 expectations.
Under these circumstances, content uploaded by our user community may have accessibility issues.
Key areas of non-compliance may include: 1.1 Text Alternatives 1.1.1 Non-text Content 1.2 Time-based Media 1.2.1 Audio-only and Video-only (Prerecorded) 1.2.2 Captions (Prerecorded) 1.2.3 Audio Description or Media Alternative (Prerecorded) 1.2.4 Captions (Live) 1.2.5 Audio Description (Prerecorded) 1.3 Adaptable 1.3.1 Info and Relationships 1.3.2 Meaningful Sequence 1.3.3 Sensory Characteristics 1.3.4 Orientation 1.4 Distinguishable 1.4.1 Use of Colour 1.4.3 Contrast (Minimum) 1.4.5 Images of Text 1.4.10 Reflow 1.4.11 Non-text Contrast Whilst captioning of live video is not included under current legislation, staff can turn on live captions within products such as Microsoft Teams or PowerPoint shows.
On 23 September 2018, the EU Web Accessibility Directive became UK law.
Ulster University currently has a general accessibility statement at https://www.ulster.ac.uk/accessibility
Enhance your accessibility by using the accessibility features in your web browser.
Configure your computer, laptop, or mobile device so that you can magnify details, have the computer readout interface elements aloud, change the colour scheme, and many other aspects.
Blackboard Learn (referred to colloquially as Blackboard) is Ulster’s centrally supported Virtual Learning Environment (VLE).
The following custom adjustments are available to you in your user Blackboard interface and may help enhance your accessibility experience:
Guides are available from Blackboard on the following topics (follow the embedded links):
The following digital tools and technologies are supported by the University and have standalone accessibility statements and best practice guides to explain how the software supports accessibility.
Blackboard’s Voluntary Product Accessibility Report includes information regarding where the product does not meet the full WCAG 2.0 expectations.
Key areas of non-compliance may include:
Whilst captioning of live video is not included under current legislation, staff can turn on live captions within products such as Microsoft Teams or PowerPoint shows.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/copyright:
Ulster University Copyright pages
Ulster University's Copyright Statement
Information of using Ulster University's logo, visual image and other trademarks.
Link to the most up to date version of the Copyright Policy
This guide provides practical advice to staff and students at Ulster University about copyright and how it affects you.
For staff

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/cookie-policy:
Learn how Ulster University uses cookies to enhance website functionality, improve user experience, and analyze visitor interactions.
At Ulster University, we are committed to protecting your privacy and ensuring transparency about the information we collect when you visit our website ( ulster.ac.uk ).
This Cookie Policy explains what cookies are, how we use them, and how you can manage your preferences.
By continuing to use our website, you consent to the use of cookies in accordance with this policy.
Cookies are small text files that are placed on your device (computer, tablet, or mobile phone) when you visit a website.
They help the website remember your preferences, enhance your browsing experience, and provide analytical insights.
Cookies can be session cookies (temporary and deleted when you close your browser) or persistent cookies (stay on your device for a set period or until manually deleted).
We use cookies to:
We do not use cookies to collect personal data that directly identifies you.
These cookies are essential for the website to function and cannot be disabled.
They are used to:
Without these cookies, the website may not perform correctly.
These cookies help us understand how visitors use our website.
We use tools like Google Analytics to:
Example: Google Analytics cookies (_ga, _gid).
These cookies allow the website to remember your preferences, such as language selection or accessibility settings, to enhance your user experience.
4.
Marketing Cookies
We may use third-party cookies to:
Third-party services may collect data through these cookies.
You can opt-out of marketing cookies at any time.
Below is a detailed list of the cookies used on our website, along with their purpose and duration:
You can control and manage cookies in the following ways:
When you visit our website, you will be presented with a cookie banner powered by CookieControl from Civic .
CookieControl allows you to accept, decline, or customize your cookie preferences easily.
Most web browsers allow you to control cookies through their settings.
You can:
To learn how to manage cookies, visit your browser's help section:
You can opt out of targeted advertising via industry tools such as:
Please note that disabling certain cookies may impact the functionality and user experience of our website.
We may update this Cookie Policy from time to time to reflect changes in legal requirements or how we use cookies.
Any updates will be published on this page with the date of the last revision.
Last updated: 17 December 2024
If you have any questions about this Cookie Policy or how we use cookies, please contact us at:

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/about/governance/compliance/freedom-of-information:
Information relating to Freedom of Information at Ulster.
Ulster University is committed to the principles of open and accountable government and to promoting understanding of its activities.
In addition, the University has been designated as a public authority under the provisions of Schedule I, part IV of the Freedom of Information Act 2000 .
Under the terms of the UK General Data Protection Regulations, Data Protection Act 2018, and the Freedom of Information Act 2000, individuals have rights in regard to obtaining information held by the University.
Personal data can be accessed by submitting a Subject Access Request to gdpr@ulster.ac.uk
Under the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act 2000, you can ask the University to provide you with any information held by the University.
For example, you may wish to see the minutes of a particular meeting, see the Register of Interests for Council Members or obtain standard information about student data.
The University already makes public large quantities of the information that it holds and a description of all that we publish is detailed in our Publication Scheme .
Before submitting any request, you are advised to check the above web address to determine whether the information you require is already available.
If you wish to make an enquiry about data held by the University and which does not seem to be already available, then please email your request to foi@ulster.ac.uk or submit a request in writing to Eoin Coyle, Data Protection & Information Compliance Manager, Ulster University, Cromore Road, Coleraine BT52 1SA.
The Data Protection & Information Compliance Manager can also be contacted on telephone no.
028 71675525.
Under Section 36 of the Freedom of Information Act, the Vice-Chancellor is the  University's  Qualified Person.
When we receive your request we will start a search for the information you need.
If we cannot determine exactly what information you require, we will contact you as soon as possible to clarify your request.
If we already publish the information you require, we shall send you details of how to find the information.
The information you need will be located and provided to you in your preferred format.
Please note, however, that some information may be exempt from disclosure: should that be the case, we will provide what information we can and also provide reasons why other information has not been released to you.
Please note that we may charge a fee under Section 9 of the FOIA to recover our communication costs, such as for photocopying, printing and postage.
In such circumstances, the University is allowed more time, pending the receipt of the necessary fee.
In charging such fees, the University will at all times comply with the Freedom of Information and Data Protection (Appropriate Limit and Fees) Regulations 2004 and also guidelines published in respect of such fees by the Information Commissioners Office
The University will usually have 20 working days to respond to your request or longer if we have requested a fee.
Please be careful to specify clearly all the information you require.
We will make all reasonable efforts to locate this information, though we may need to ask you to provide more detail if your original application does not allow us to identify exactly what you want.
If you require advice on how to specify your needs, please contact the Data Protection & Information Compliance Unit on telephone no.
028 7012 4114.
The University will not provide statistical information analysed to any greater level of detail than is normally provided with the University’s standard published information.
If the University does not hold the information you have requested, then we will write to you to inform you of this.
Where possible, we will suggest alternative ways in which you may be able to access the information you require.
If some/all of the information you request is held by another public authority, then we will provide what information we can.
We then suggest that you consider transferring the remainder of the request to the relevant authority.
If you are not satisfied with how the University has dealt with your request, you may raise the matter under the University's internal review process for FOI requests.
Please submit written details of your appeal to Clare Jamison, University of Ulster, Coleraine BT52 1SA, email at universitysecretary@ulster.ac.uk .
Appeals must be submitted within 40 working days from receipt of the University’s response.
The University will normally undertake to issue a decision on an appeal within 20 working days of receipt.
The following are some frequently asked questions to assist in the understanding of the Freedom of Information Act 2000 ("FOIA").
Can I request personal data under FOIA?
The FOIA gives individuals the right to request information held by public authorities.
It does not provide a right of access to personal information held about an individual.
If someone is requesting their personal data, this is handled as a Subject Access Request under the Data Protection legislation.
For further information on exercising your Data Protection rights, please visit Data Protection at Ulster University
Why have I been asked to clarify my request?
There maybe occasions were we cannot identify the information being requested from the details that may have been provided.
In this case, we will seek clarification from the requester.
The statutory timescale of 20 working days does not start until we have received this.
Will there be a charge?
Section 12 of the FOIA provides an exemption (appropriate limit) were costs are estimated to exceed £450 for a public authority to comply with a request for information.
Costs are calculated at £25 per hour and up to 18 hours for staff time to locate and retrieve the information.
In these cases, the University may refuse the request.
We will ask the applicant to narrow the scope of the request, we may be able to provide the information free of charge because it would cost less than the appropriate limit to do so.
How will my request be dealt with?
As a requirement of the FOIA, the University is obliged to comply with requests for information within 20 working days following receipt of a request.
In cases where we are considering the application of an exemption that is subject to a public interest test (known as a qualified exemption), the FOIA requires the university to reach its decision within such time that is reasonable in the circumstances.
What are exemptions?
There are 23 exemptions from the right of access and two categories of exemptions.
Some information is exempt from disclosure and does not have to be provided.
What are vexatious and repeated requests?
Where the university has previously complied with a request for information and subsequently receives an identical or similar request from the same individual, we are not obliged to comply with this request until a reasonable interval has elapsed between compliance with the first request and receipt of the current request.
A request for information will be treated as vexatious where it is of a frivolous nature, if it is likely to cause distress, or if it is aimed at disrupting of the work, or harassing the University.
What is the public interest test?
The public interest test provides that a public authority must release information unless, 'in all the circumstances of the case, the public interest in maintaining the exemption outweighs the public interest in disclosing the information'.
This requires the authority to make a judgement about the public interest.
What format will the information be supplied in?
When making a request you can state a preference of how you would like the information communicated to you.
This could be in hard copy, or an electronic copy of the information.
We will do our best to supply you with the information in this format.
However, if this is not practical for us to do so, we will let you know.
Information on applying for a Freedom of Information request.
Documentation on the nature and outcome of each FOI request from 1 January 2016 to present.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/finance/visitors/supplying/sustainable-procurement:
Information on Sustainable Procurement.
"Sustainable Procurement is a process whereby organisations meet their needs for goods, services, works and utilities in a way that achieves value for money on a whole life basis in terms of generating benefits not only to the organisation, but also to society and the economy, whilst minimising damage to the environment".
In 2016, an Environmental Management System (EMS) was established jointly by the Estates Department and the Procurement Office.
Following this, in June  2017, ISO 14001:2015 Environmental Systems Standard Certification was achieved.
In the University’s Procurement Excellence Strategy,  we have committed to procure goods, services and works responsibly in a way that enhances the regional vitality of our environment, economy and society in line with our Five and Fifty Strategic Plan.
The Procurement Office are utilising the Sustainable Procurement Flexible Framework as the framework for meeting the requirements of ISO14001, the internationally recognised Environmental Management System.
Sustainable Procurement relates to the Civic Contribution priority within the Five and Fifty strategic plan.
In particular engaging with our local supply chain will contribute towards the social and economic prosperity of our society.
The Flexible Framework is a tool developed for procurement professionals to support embedding sustainability into procurement practice.
The Flexible Framework methodology focuses on five key elements:
We are delighted to report that we have achieved Flexible Framework Level 4 (February 2019), one of only a handful of universities across the UK.
If you would like any more information please get in touch.
Ulster University is committed to taking steps to ensure transparency in its supply chains and to acting ethically and with integrity in all its business dealings and relationships.
In particular the University is taking action to comply with the requirements of section 54 of the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
All Ulster University suppliers are encouraged to sign up to a sustainability action planning tool which helps them to improve their sustainable and corporate responsibility activity.
The tool is free for suppliers to use and is used in collaboration with other University and Higher Education Organisations.
The tool will also address the issues raised by the Modern Slavery Act, and supplier responses will for part of our annual report.
This action plan produced by suppliers is used as part of our ongoing contract management discussions, but will not be used to evaluate tenders.
The University uses this tool to support the University’s Procurement Excellence Strategy whilst supporting our suppliers as part of our civic contribution‌
The tool is delivered in partnership with NETpositive Futures .
Modern Slavery is an international crime affecting millions of people across the globe.
It is an unacceptable practice involving people regardless of age, gender or ethnicity in developed (including the UK) as well as developing countries.
Within Britain, victims include people trafficked from overseas, or vulnerable people from the UK, who are forced to work illegally or against their will.
Evidence suggests that this is more prevalent in some sectors than others but can occur anywhere.
The University is committed to ensuring that there is no modern slavery or human trafficking in its supply chains or in any part of its activities.
As part of this commitment we have adopted a Modern Slavery Policy and issue a Modern Slavery Statement annually in line with the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
We have a zero-tolerance approach to modern slavery and staff have a duty and a responsibility to support this approach.
Considerations around modern slavery are embedded within our procurement process.
We are continuing to make progress against our commitments by both challenging and supporting suppliers within high risk categories as part of a broader supplier engagement commitment.
We have produced a modern slavery update which may be of interest
The UK Government has produced a Briefing note on Modern Slavery , including details of how to spot the signs.
View the Modern Slavery Statement

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/scholarships:
We are committed to empowering access, opportunity and excellence through scholarships.
Ulster University offers a range of scholarships designed to  support you on your academic journey.
Through a combination of needs- and merit-based programmes, we aim to increase access and reward excellence, empowering you to seize your full potential.
Use the links below to discover the right scholarship for you, or get in touch with us at scholarships@ulster.ac.uk for more information.
Search the full range of undergraduate, postgraduate taught, and international scholarships to find the right one for you....
Discover our range of scholarships for undergraduate students.
Includes the Inspire Scholarships, McColgan Engineering Scholarship and more....
Scholarships for Postgraduate (taught) students.
Includes the Action Renewables Scholarships, A&O Shearman Access to Justice Scholarships and more....
Scholarships for students paying international fees.
Includes the John J Sweeney Scholarship, GREAT Scholarships and more....
There are 39 upcoming scholarships available.
Studentships at the Doctoral College
Ulster's Annual PhD Studentship Competition offers scholarships to home and overseas applicants, including three years of fees, an annual maintenance grant of £20,000 and a Research Training and Support grant of £900 per year.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/doctoralcollege/postgraduate-research/apply/how-to:
All applications are made online and applicants are welcome to discuss their application prior to submission with relevant staff in order to develop an appropriate research proposal.
This video explains the application process and how to apply online.
If you click on the arrow at the bottom centre of the video, you can view the table of contents and navigate to a specific section.
If you wish to view the captions/subtitles, please click on the cc button on the bottom right of the video screen.
Once you have created an account on the applicant portal, you can create multiple applications.
The system will remember most of your details.
You will still need to upload supplemental items for each application, including a unique research proposal for each project.
You can manage your applications through the applicant portal.
If you don't hold a valid passport, you can simply type in dummy data to bypass this section of the application form.
You will require a valid passport by the time you need to apply for a visa but we can still assess your application without this.
Please use '0000' to bypass this field so that it is clear it is dummy information.
You may still submit an application without your English language evidence, but we will require that you have passed any necessary tests and submitted certificates within a defined period (usually six weeks) from the closing date.
If you have booked a test, please upload this information in lieu of the certificate.
The supplemental items will only be requested once you have submitted your application.
This is because different programmes require different supplemental items.
You will receive an automated email upon submission prompting you to upload the required documents.
Please note that both the application and the supplemental items must be uploaded before the closing date or else your application will be automatically withdrawn.
Once you browse and select the files from your PC or device, you need to click on the small 'upload' button below the file to fully upload the file to the system.
You do not need to attach references at the application stage.
Some of our research areas may require references to be submitted and if so, you will be advised by email to initiate the 'Recommendation Requests' section.
You simply need to enter details of two academic referees and the system will automatically invite them to complete a form.
You can manage this via the portal.
Once the closing date for applications has passed, those applications deemed 'incomplete' will be withdrawn by default.
This is usually because you have failed to upload a unique research proposal for the project in question or have other missing mandatory supplemental items.
Your application will also be withdrawn if you are ineligible to apply for that particular project (e.g.
if it's a funded project only open to home applicants or if previous study means that you are not eligible to apply for a funded PhD).
We receive a number of applications from candidates who have yet to complete their degree programmes.
Although the system will initially require transcripts and degree certificates for both postgraduate and undergraduate courses, the Doctoral College team will waive these requirements once we could to assess your application (based on information provided in your CV).
We can process your applications through for consideration based on incomplete degrees, provided we have transcripts to date.
If you have been listed as a reserve for a funded position, you should decline the offer of admission to self fund (unless you are able to switch to self fund your studies).
We will then retain you on the reserve list for a funded place and make a new offer if a position becomes available.
We work through reserve lists up until September each year, so you should continue to check your inbox.
If you have been made a conditional offer based upon receiving a particular grade in your degree or MSc programme, you will have until mid to late August to upload your certificates.
You will be unable to register without providing evidence of meeting the requirements.
In case of other conditions, such as English, you should upload your certificate as soon as you receive your test results so that your offer can be amended to unconditional.
Applicants should hold, or expect to obtain, a First or Upper Second Class Honours Degree in a subject relevant to the proposed area of study.
We may also consider applications from those who hold equivalent qualifications, for example, a Lower Second Class Honours Degree plus a Master’s Degree with Distinction.
In exceptional circumstances, the University may consider a portfolio of evidence from applicants who have appropriate professional experience which is equivalent to the learning outcomes of an Honours degree in lieu of academic qualifications.
A completed application includes an application form plus mandatory supplemental items, which you will be prompted for as soon as you submit the application form.
Advertisements for funded opportunities will include details of the closing date and any shortlisting criteria.
Applicants should note that the closing date is strictly enforced and is the deadline by which you should have submitted both the application and any required supplemental items .
Apply online
If you need help with your application contact researchstudent@ulster.ac.uk.
Once you've submitted your application, it will be reviewed on the following criteria:
On the basis of this assessment, you may be invited for interview where you will be assessed based on your relevant experience and other competencies.
If you are invited to interview, we will request the details of two academic referees via the Applicant Portal.
You should manage this process to ensure that references are provided to the University before the interview date.
You will receive notification of the outcome of your application via the Applicant Portal.
If you are successful, you can accept or decline the offer via the Portal.
If you are unhappy with the outcome you can undertake an appeal.
If you are unhappy about an admission decision, you may choose to appeal against this decision.
The following are mandatory items:
If you are applying on a self-funded, or privately-funded basis, or if the advertisement for the project you are applying for requires a research proposal, please include the following in your proposal:
Use an existing CV, Ulster Employability and Graduate Future's CV template or one of many other CV templates available .
Include details of any publications you have as well as any work experience related to the project area.
This is an official record from your University of modules and courses undertaken to date or as part of your qualification.
(Terminology - UG = undergraduate and PG = postgraduate).
These are mandatory items and you will be required to provide certified English translations if appropriate.
If you have an award pending, simply upload the transcripts to date .
If you do not hold a postgraduate qualification, the administration team will waive this requirement when your application is due to be assessed.
An approved document that provides evidence that you meet the English language requirements of the University.
For UK students this will usually be a copy of your GCSE English certificate.
If you require a Student Visa you should provide evidence in the form of a UK Home Office approved Secure English Language Test.
Please note that a letter from your institution confirming that your degree was in English is not sufficient for Home Office purposes.
If you have an English test booked, please upload these details.
You do not need to have your English certificate at the point of application, but any offer will be conditional upon you obtaining this before we can issue with the documentation required to obtain a Student Visa.
Please tell us why you wish to study at Ulster University on this particular programme.
For applicants requiring a Student Visa, this statement will be used to prove your 'Intent to Study' to the UK Home Office.
Your personal statement must demonstrate:       
If you are an international applicant and have already provided this detail as part of your application form, the team assessing your application may waive the requirement for a further upload if they feel sufficient information has been provided.
Registration for research degree programmes at Ulster typically takes place at two points throughout the year: during the second week of September and during the second week of January.
This page details how you might appeal against an admissions decision

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/global/scholarships:
Join us in January or September 2026 and receive up to £4,200 off your tuition fees with our new Dean’s...
In partnership with the British Council and the GREAT Britain Campaign, Ulster University are offering a number of scholarships to...
This special scholarship is named in honour of AFL-CIO President Emeritus John J.
Sweeney.
Open to Students from the USA.
The DUFE PhD Scholarship is available for students who have completed the UU/DUFE programme and commencing postgraduate research at Ulster University...
The Creative Industries and Communication Scholarship is open to new international (excluding UK & RoI) entrants on the first year...
The Law and Criminology Scholarship is open to new international (excluding UK & RoI) entrants on the first year of...
The TESOL Scholarship is open to new international (excluding UK & RoI) entrants on the first year of a relevant...
Open to all new international (excluding UK and RoI) entrants on the first year of a full-time undergraduate programme delivered...
Open to all new international (excluding UK and RoI) entrants on a full-time postgraduate programme delivered on one of our...
The Study Abroad Scholarship is open to all international students who have previously studied at Ulster University as an exchange...
British Council manages a number of international scholarships and funding schemes, while their Find Your UK Education tool enables you to search for scholarships by your chosen subject.
Chevening Scholarships are the UK government's global scholarship programme, which makes awards to outstanding scholars with leadership potential from around the world to study postgraduate courses at universities in the UK.The programme provides full or part funding for full-time courses at postgraduate level, normally a one-year master's degree, in any subject and at any UK university.
COLFUTURO is an initiative aimed at facilitating the access of Colombian professionals to further education abroad.
Its main objective is to provide financial support and increase the possibilities of Colombian citizens to access high-quality postgraduate study programmes abroad.
Under the Commonwealth Scholarship and Fellowship plan , scholarships are offered annually to citizens resident in a developing or developed Commonwealth country other than the UK.
Awards are for university postgraduate study or research and are administered by the Department for International Development.
FIDERH (Fund for Development of Human Resources) is a federal trust managed by the Central Bank of Mexico.
Its objective is to offer affordable loans to Mexican students to finance their postgraduate studies either in Mexico or internationally.
There are three calls for applications each year in December, March and May.
To apply, applicants should already being holding an unconditional offer from Ulster University.
Ulster University is proud to be a Fulbright Partner and warmly supports incoming American and outgoing Ulster Fulbright scholars.
Approximately 20 scholarships are available to US graduate students for study in almost any subject in the UK.
These awards aim to promote mutual understanding between the United States and the UK and cover tuition fees and 10 months' maintenance sufficient to cover housing, travel, food and other living expenses.
Candidates are expected to be leaders, or future leaders, in their field of study, whose project proposals reflect enduring concerns, demonstrate sound methodology, and avoid politicisation of scholarly inquiry.
Candidates must be US citizens and must demonstrate the following:
Commission encourages professionals, academics and recent graduates to apply.
Candidates without a BA or equivalent degree but with extensive years of professional study and/or experience in their chosen field may be considered.
Candidates may apply to more than one university and formal acceptance need not be completed prior to applying for a Fulbright award.
Funding is not available for:
Potential candidates in the US should consult their Campus Fulbright Advisor or contact the Institute of International Education (IIE) in New York for more information and an application pack.
Institute of International Education (IIE), 809 United Nations Plaza, New York, NY 10017 3580, USA.
Website: Fulbright Commission US website
Please contact US Educational Advisory Service, The Fulbright Commission, 62 Doughty Street, London, WC1N 2JZ, Telephone: 020 7404 6994.
Website: Fulbright Commission UK website
The George J.
Mitchell Scholarship Programme is a national, competitive scholarship sponsored by the US-Ireland Alliance.
The Mitchell Scholarship Programme, named to honor former US Senator George Mitchell's pivotal contribution to the Northern Ireland peace process, is designed to introduce and connect generations of future American leaders to the island of Ireland, while recognising and fostering intellectual achievement, leadership and a commitment to community and public service.
Up to 12 Mitchell Scholars between the ages of 18 and 30 are chosen annually for one year of postgraduate study in any discipline offered by institutions of higher learning in Ireland and Northern Ireland.
Applicants are judged on three criteria:
The Mitchell Scholarship Programme provides tuition, accommodation, a stipend for living expenses and travel.
The Talented Athlete Entry Scheme is designed to assist talented young sports performers in gaining access to a quality education at Ulster University whilst attaining success at the highest levels within their chosen sport.
The Scheme recognises the sacrifice in time, effort and crucially – in examination performance – which may result from taking part in sport at the highest level.
Under the Talented Athlete Entry Scheme , Ulster University allows a reduction in the points required for entry to full-time undergraduate courses.
Successful applicants to the Talented Athlete Entry Scheme will be offered a two-grade reduction in entrance requirements or the equivalent in other accepted entrance qualifications, for the course(s) of their choice.
For further information on the Scheme please contact the Scheme Administrator by emailing schemeadministrator@ulster.ac.uk .
The School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences, supported by Norbrook Laboratories Limited, offers the Barnett Pharmaceutical Sciences Scholarship for students who hold a conditional offer of a place on the MSc in Pharmaceutical Sciences Programme.
The Scholarship of £10,000 will support the scholar/scholars and will be used to cover the full amount of the scholar/scholars tuition fees (up to a maximum of £10,000 per annum) with any remaining funds being paid directly to the scholar/scholars in support of living expenses.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/student/fees/tuition-fees/international:
Tuition Fees for International and EU (Excluding ROI) Students
Tuition Fees Academic Year 2024/25 for International and EU (Excluding ROI) Students
Tuition Fees Academic Year 2025/26 for International  and EU (Excluding ROI) Students
Tuition Fees Academic Year 2026/27 for International and EU (Excluding ROI) Students
Tuition Fees Academic Year 2027/28 for International and EU (Excluding ROI) students
Information on non-refundable deposits for International Students

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/global/apply/scholarships/university-of-the-year-deans-scholarship:
Join us in January or September 2026 and receive up to £4,200 off your tuition fees with our new Dean’s Scholarship for international (excluding UK and RoI) students.
Ulster University is celebrating being named the UK and Ireland University of the Year (Times Higher Education Awards 2024) by investing in what matters most - you, our international students.
As part of our commitment to fostering global talent, we are delighted to offer the University of the Year Dean’s Scholarship for eligible international students joining us in January or September 2026.
If you’re an international student joining us in January or September 2026, you’ll automatically receive a £1,500 tuition fee discount - on top of our existing £2,000 International Scholarship.
That’s a total reduction of £3,500 towards your studies!
If  you're applying to certain Arts, Humanities, and Social Sciences programmes, you may be eligible for an enhanced £2,200 scholarship.
This brings your total possible reduction to £4,200.
Check our Creative Industries and Communication , Law and Criminolgy and TESOL scholarship webpages for a full list of eligible programmes.
You don’t need to apply for this award – all eligible students are awarded it automatically.
Join a vibrant, welcoming community at the UK and Ireland University of the Year, where your potential is recognised and rewarded.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/global/ready:
Find out what to do next, now you have received an offer from Ulster University.
Ensure we have received your deposit on time.
For International Applicants
If you are not a national of an EU/EEA country, or Switzerland, you will need a Visa to enter the UK.
Make yourself at home in our accommodation available at our Coleraine, Derry~Londonderry, and Belfast campuses.
Meet the team who will support you get ready for UU.
Guidance on UK visa and immigration requirements.
Bringing your family?
Guidance on accommodation, education, healthcare and more.
Final checks before you depart for Northern Ireland.
An introduction to life in Northern Ireland as well as campus life at Ulster.
Overview of international tuition fees for full-time undergraduate and postgraduate programmes at Ulster University.
Tuition fees for studying one or two semesters at Ulster.
Find out what types of scholarships are available to international students.
A guide to living costs in Northern Ireland.
Hints & tips on opening a local bank account.
Ulster University has accommodation available at each of our campuses.
Guidance on finding private rented accommodation in Northern Ireland.
Information & support while living in Northern Ireland.
Have a buddy support you during your first semester at Ulster.
Learn about amazing programmes to study and work abroad.
The hub for social events, entertainment, trips and activities at Ulster University.
Here at Student Wellbeing we want to help our students as much as possible.
Guidance on vaccinations you may need and registering with a local doctor.
The Library service has a wide range of resources that are available online.
Preview our extensive subject guides.
Each campus library provides a range of environments to work and study.
Situated in the vibrant and cultural Cathedral Quarter of Belfast city.
Find out what our international students said about their Ulster University experience.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/global/why:
Find out why international students around the globe are choosing Ulster University as their UK study destination.
Whether you are from Norway, Nigeria or Nepal, the friendliness and support we offer ensures you will feel at home and make an easy transition to living in Northern Ireland and university life.
Northern Ireland is the most affordable region for international students in the UK to live, work and study.
Home to Game of Thrones, Titanic and the Giant's Causeway, experience more in the Land of Legends.
Experience a vibrant, electric social scene alongside some of Northern Ireland's most acclaimed scenery, named #1 Best in Travel 2018 by Lonely Planet.
With over 2,500 work placements each year, our students become highly employable graduates with 94% starting their career or further study.
We have invested over £263 million across our four campuses to ensure our facilities provide the best learning experience for our students.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/global/apply/english-language-requirements:
Up to £4,200 off tuition for international (non-UK and ROI) starting January 2026.
No separate application.
All applicants to the University (from the UK and overseas) are required to show evidence of a minimum English language level in order to be accepted on to our courses.
UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) requires that every student from outside the UK must show evidence of a minimum level of English language in order to be granted a UK Student Visa to study at undergraduate or postgraduate level unless the student is exempt .
For students who are applying for our Study Abroad Programme (EU nationals included) we require evidence of a minimum English language level in order to be accepted onto our programme.
This applies to students travelling as a non-visa national or on a standard visitor visa.
This level is often referred to as the ‘B2 level’.
If you have not yet met the English language requirements of your chosen degree programme, then we encourage you to join our summer pre-sessional course.
Unless stated, your qualification must be awarded within 3 years of the semester start date.
A minimum mark of 70% in English in the Standard Xll examinations in the Central Boards (CBSE/ICSE or the State Boards of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Maharashtra, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, and West Bengal.).
No time limit.
Minimum grade of 5
Minimum grade of 6
Minimum grade of:
6 (Higher level)
7 (Standard level)
Minimum grade of: 6 (Higher level)
Minimum grade of: 7 (Higher level only)
7 (Higher level only)
Grade C in IGSCE English as a First Language (0522)
Grade C in IGCSE English as a First Language (0500) with Grade 2 in Speaking + Listening components
Grade C in IGCSE English as a Second Language (0510) with Grade 2 Oral endorsement
Grade C in IGCSE English as a Second Language (0511) with Grade C in oral assessment
Grade 5 in either English Home Language OR English First Additional Language, as equivalent to IELTS 6.0.
Please provide a copy of your individual Scratch Card which conceals a PIN that is required to verify the results presented.
No time limit
You must have been awarded or certified within the last two years with the exception of QA, which must have been awarded to you within the last year.
162 overall with not less than 162 in 3 elements and a minimum 154 in the 4 th element .
Any offers made will be conditional on successful completion of Standard Pre-Sessional
169 overall with not less than 162 in each element of the test (taken from January 2015)
176 overall with not less than 162 in each element of the test (taken from January 2015)
185 overall with not less than 162 in each element of the test (taken from January 2015)
Any offers made will be conditional on successful completion of Standard Pre-Sessional.
Ulster will now accept the Duolingo English Test as evidence of English language proficiency, provided the test was taken after July 2024.
The required DET scores are as follows:
Please note that DET results from before July 2024 will not be accepted.
LanguageCert Academic (centre-based only)
LanguageCert Academic SELT (centre-based only)
IELTS 6.0 (min 5.5)
Overall 65 with no element below 60
IELTS 6.5 (min 5.5)
Overall 70 with no element below 60
IELTS 6.5 (min 6.0)
Overall 70 with no element below 65
IELTS 7.0 (min 6.0)
Overall 75 with no element below 65
IELTS 7.0 (min 6.5)
Overall 75 with no element below 70
*Please note, this is not accepted beyond September 2025 entry.
NA
C+
We do not accept PTE Academic Online scores.
You must have successfully completed your QA test within the last year.
Please note, we do not accept TOEFL MyBest scores.
B1 Pass with Merit
B2 Pass
B2 Pass with Merit
C1 Pass
Apply now for the 7-week pre-sessional English language and study skills course run by the English for Academic Studies Centre (EASC).
Ulster University offers in-sessional English language support to international students.
More information on the Ulster University Password English Language Test with Proctor U.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/global/apply/entry-requirements:
We accept a wide range of international qualifications.
These are assessed individually for their content and level, and against relevant guidelines such as the British Council and the National Academic Recognition Information Centre for the United Kingdom (NARIC UK).
The minimum required to be considered for entry to our undergraduate programmes is the equivalent of three A-levels at CCC.
However, some programmes will require higher grades and particular subjects.
Please refer to the specific entry requirements for your chosen programme of study as outlined in the online prospectus .
Competence in written and spoken English is a General Entrance Requirement for entry to all courses, whereas competence in mathematics is not.
Some courses however will require specific grades for mathematics.
You should refer to the specific entry requirements for your chosen course as outlined in the online prospectus.
Usually the minimum English language entry requirement is IELTS (academic) of 6.0 (with no band score of less than 5.5).
Some of our courses ask for a higher score.
If you do not meet the English language requirement we will give you a conditional offer subject to you meeting the requirement before the commencement of the course.
We accept a wide range of alternative English language examinations and tests so please check the list of other accepted tests.
Depending on where you are applying from, we may ask for other information in addition to your qualifications and English language fluency.
Please check your country information for specific requirements.
Relevant information for your country, including entry requirements, useful contacts and events near you.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/global/apply/visas-and-immigration:
Our aim is to help your transition from your home country to your life in Northern Ireland and help you make the most of your time at Ulster.
We are here to offer support and advice on UK student visas and post-study options as well as provide informed and supportive referral services for any other issues you may have.
We endeavour to keep our information up-to-date with UKVI immigration rules
The information on our website is correct and accurate at the time of publication.
Please refer to UKVI website and Student and Child Student guidance for the most up-to-date and accurate UK visa and immigration information.
Check if you require a visa to study in the UK.
Find out more about applying for a Student visa.
Your Student visa is an important document that allows you to remain within the UK whilst you study at Ulster University.
Find out whether you are entitled to bring your family members with you to the UK.
Standard Visitor permission is suitable for you if you intend to study for a maximum of 6 months at Ulster University.
If you are a non-visa national, you may choose to apply for permission to enter as a Standard Visitor at the UK border.
The Graduate Visa Route opened to all eligible students on 1 July 2021.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/global/apply/fees-and-finance:
The following tuition fees apply to international and EU (excluding Republic of Ireland) students.
For details on other tuition fee categories, view full details on fees .
£17,010* for full-time international (excluding NI, RoI and UK) students studying undergraduate degrees, integrated Masters and equivalent.
£4,900 * for a placement year or study abroad year.
Full-time students registering for a Postgraduate Diploma only will be charged 2/3 of the full Master's fee for that course as detailed above.
Full-time students registering for a Postgraduate Certificate only will be charged 1/3 of the full Master's fee for that course as detailed above.
Part-time students registering on a Postgraduate Certificate/Diploma course will be charged the corresponding Master's rate per credit point fee as detailed above, unless separately detailed.
The table below shows the minimum overall credits that students are expected to attain in order to gain specific awards.
Students should always consult with their course director for specific information about required credits.
All fees are subject to an annual increase.
*Correct at the time of publishing.
Fees illustrated are based on 2025/26 entry and are subject to an annual increase.
International (excluding UK and RoI) students are required to pay a deposit of £4,000.
When you receive  an unconditional offer, and to secure your place, you will be asked to make a minimum deposit payment against your tuition fees of £4,000.
A deposit payment does not signify that we will issue you with a Certificate of Acceptance for Studies (CAS).
We view it as a sign of your commitment to study, and part of a staged admissions process.
Please refer to Tuition Fees Payment Policy 2024/25 for further information.
Some courses may have additional costs which are not included in your tuition fee.
Check the individual programme specification for details as additional costs vary from course to course.
Tuition fees and costs associated with accommodation, travel (including car parking charges), and normal living are a part of university life.
Where a course has additional mandatory expenses we make every effort to highlight them.
These may include:
We aim to provide students with the learning materials needed to support their studies.
Our libraries are a valuable resource with an extensive collection of books and journals as well as first-class facilities and IT equipment.
Computer suites and free wifi is also available on each of the campuses.
There will be some additional costs to being a student which cannot be itemised and these will be different for each student.
You may choose to purchase your own textbooks and course materials or prefer your own computer and software.
Printing and binding may also be required.
There are additional fees for graduation ceremonies , examination resits and library fines.
Students choosing a period of paid work placement or study abroad as part of their course should be aware that there may be additional travel and living costs as well as tuition fees.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/global/ify:
The Integrated Foundation Year is an embedded Year 0 giving you access to a Ulster University Bachelor's degree programme.
For September 2025 intake, we have over 30 integrated degrees across our faculties.
All open for application now!
Complete the form below and an advisor will be in touch to help with your application.
To be eligible for the Integrated Foundation Year you must:
Equivalent qualifications from all countries are considered.
Further details on accepted qualifications can be found at Your Country pages.
View Your Country pages
If your country is not listed please contact international admissions for further information.
internationaladmissions@ulster.ac.uk
You have the choice of over 30 named degrees with an Integrated Foundation Year.
See below for the named degrees in each of our faculties.
The Integrated Foundation Year has been embedded to degrees within Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences.
The Integrated Foundation Year has been embedded to degrees within Computing, Engineering and the Built Environment.
The Integrated Foundation Year has been embedded to degrees within Life and Health Sciences.
The Integrated Foundation Year has been embedded to degrees within Ulster University Business School.
£17,010
As an Integrated Foundation student you can opt for university accommodation at Jordanstown campus or at 123 York Street in the heart of Belfast city centre.
Submit your application before 14 August 2025 to be guaranteed a place in university accommodation.
Accommodation cost for 2025/26 have not yet been confirmed but for illustration purposes in 2024/25 accommodation fees started from £139 per week.
University accommodation stay is for 37 weeks.
If you opt for 123 York Street your stay will be 44 weeks.
Not only was Belfast voted as the 2nd Friendliest UK city in 2023, it was also voted as one of the top 10 cities in UK by Condé Nast Traveller, 2023.
Northern Ireland has the lowest student cost of living in the UK* National Student Money Survey 2024.
Northern Ireland is also the most affordable region for international students in the UK to live (NatWest Student Living Index, 2024).
As an Integrated Foundation Year student, your average weekly living costs could look something like this:
Applying for the Integrated Foundation Year is free and easy with our online application, simply follow the instructions below.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/global/apply/country:
Information for applicants from Afghanistan.
Information for applicants from Albania.
Information for applicants from Algeria.
Information for applicants from Antigua and Barbuda.
Information for applicants from Argentina.
Information for applicants from Armenia.
Information for applicants from Aruba.
Information for applicants from Australia.
Information for applicants from Austria.
Information for applicants from Azerbaijan.
Information for applicants from Bahamas.
Information for applicants from Bahrain.
Information for applicants from Bangladesh.
Information for applicants from Barbados.
Information for applicants from Belarus.
Information for applicants from Belgium.
Information for applicants from Belize.
Information for applicants from Benin.
Information for applicants from Bhutan.
Information for applicants from Bolivia.
Information for applicants from Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Information for applicants from Botswana.
Information for applicants from Brazil.
Information for applicants from British Virgin Islands.
Information for applicants from Brunei Darussalam.
Information for applicants from Bulgaria.
Information for applicants from Cambodia.
Information for applicants from Cameroon.
Information for applicants from Canada.
Information for applicants from Cayman Islands.
Information for applicants from Chile.
Information for applicants from China.
Information for applicants from Colombia.
Information for applicants from Costa Rica.
Information for applicants from Croatia.
Information for applicants from Cuba.
Information for applicants from Cyprus.
Information for applicants from Czech Republic (Czechia).
Information for applicants from Democratic Republic of the Congo.
Information for applicants from Denmark.
Information for applicants from Dominica.
Information for applicants from East Timor (Timor-Leste).
Information for applicants from Ecuador.
Information for applicants from Egypt.
Information for applicants from Eritrea.
Information for applicants from Estonia.
Information for applicants from Ethiopia.
Information for applicants from Finland.
Information for applicants from France.
Information for applicants from Gambia.
Information for applicants from Georgia.
Information for applicants from Germany.
Information for applicants from Ghana.
Information for applicants from Greece.
Information for applicants from Grenada.
Information for applicants from Guyana.
Information for applicants from Hong Kong.
Information for applicants from Hungary.
Information for applicants from India.
Information for applicants from Indonesia.
Information for applicants from Iran.
Information for applicants from Iraq.
Information for applicants from Ireland.
Information for applicants from Italy.
Information for applicants from Ivory Coast.
Information for applicants from Jamaica.
Information for applicants from Japan.
Information for applicants from Jordan.
Information for applicants from Kazakhstan.
Information for applicants from Kenya.
Information for applicants from Kosovo.
Information for applicants from Kuwait.
Information for applicants from Kyrgyzstan.
Information for applicants from Latvia.
Information for applicants from Lebanon.
Information for applicants from Libya.
Information for applicants from Lithuania.
Information for applicants from Luxembourg.
Information for applicants from Macau.
Information for applicants from Macedonia (North).
Information for applicants from Malaysia.
Information for applicants from Maldives.
Information for applicants from Malta.
Information for applicants from Mexico.
Information for applicants from Moldova.
Information for applicants from Mongolia.
Information for applicants from Morocco.
Information for applicants from Myanmar.
Information for applicants from Namibia.
Information for applicants from Nepal.
Information for applicants from Netherlands.
Information for applicants from New Zealand.
Information for applicants from Nicaragua.
Information for applicants from Nigeria.
Information for applicants from Oman.
Information for applicants from Pakistan.
Information for applicants from Palestine.
Information for applicants from Panama.
Information for applicants from Peru.
Information for applicants from Philippines.
Information for applicants from Poland.
Information for applicants from Portugal.
Information for applicants from Qatar.
Information for applicants from Romania.
Information for applicants from Russia.
Information for applicants from Saudi Arabia.
Information for applicants from Senegal.
Information for applicants from Singapore.
Information for applicants from Slovakia.
Information for applicants from Slovenia.
Information for applicants from Somalia.
Information for applicants from South Africa.
Information for applicants from South Korea.
Information for applicants from Spain.
Information for applicants from Sri Lanka.
Information for applicants from St Kitts and Nevis.
Information for applicants from St Lucia.
Information for applicants from St Vincent and the Grenadines.
Information for applicants from Sudan.
Information for applicants from Suriname.
Information for applicants from Sweden.
Information for applicants from Switzerland.
Information for applicants from Syria.
Information for applicants from Taiwan.
Information for applicants from Tanzania.
Information for applicants from Thailand.
Information for applicants from Trinidad and Tobago.
Information for applicants from Tunisia.
Information for applicants from Turkey.
Information for applicants from Uganda.
Information for applicants from Ukraine.
Information for applicants from United Arab Emirates.
Information for applicants from United Kingdom.
Information for applicants from United States of America.
Information for applicants from Uruguay.
Information for applicants from Uzbekistan.
Information for applicants from Venezuela.
Information for applicants from Vietnam.
Information for applicants from Yemen.
Information for applicants from Zambia.
Information for applicants from Zimbabwe.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/global/study-abroad/guidance:
Study Abroad Programme - receive step by step guidance on how to apply, module selection, visa advice, accommodation and much more!
We are delighted that you have made the decision to choose Ulster University as the destination for your Study Abroad programme!
You can study with us for a full academic year from mid-September to the end of May or you can join us for Semester one September to January (Fall/Autumn) or Semester two January to May (Spring).
The choice is yours.
Please read through the steps below where you will find useful information to guide you on your journey to Ulster University from application to arrival!
Before you are nominated to study with us, you will need to confirm that your home university has a student exchange/study abroad agreement with us.
Once confirmed your home institution must send an email nomination on your behalf to goglobal@ulster.ac.uk
Nominations must include the following:
Once we receive your nomination e-mail you will be invited to complete our application form.
Go to the online application portal.
1.
Create a log in ID and password
2.
From the drop-down menu select the application type: Exchange/Study Abroad.
3.
In the programme choice drop down menu select Study Abroad .
Enter your campus, subject and semester of study.
Once we receive your application you will be asked to forward further documentation as outlined below:
To assess your application, your latest transcript of results is required from your home institution.
This must include your current Grade Point Average (GPA) and modules (classes) completed to date.
Our GPA requirement is 3.0 or equivalent (57% or above)
All transcripts submitted must be official and in English and include:
Please note: If your original transcript is not in English, you must provide an official translation (stamped by an official translator).
All international applicants (EU nationals included) are required to show evidence of a minimum English language level in order to be accepted onto our Study Abroad programme.
You can demonstrate that you meet the English language requirements using the following tests/qualifications that have been approved by the university .
You do not need to provide evidence of your English language if you are from one of the countries listed in the exempt category.
You are required to send a copy of your valid passport.
Your passport will need to remain valid for the entirety of your stay plus 6 months.
If you are intending to study within the Belfast School of Art or Architecture, you will be required to send an e-portfolio clearly showing your practical experience in the areas you wish to study in.
You will receive an acceptance e-mail once your documentation and application have been assessed.
Your acceptance e-mail will confirm which Faculty you will be assigned to and which campus you will be based.
It should also be printed and for use at the UK border as proof of your intended studies at Ulster University.
Once you have been accepted you should check what visa you will need to give you the right to study in the UK.
The following guidance is available:
Please note: The Home Office has introduced an Electronic Travel Authorisation (ETA) to ensure that anyone who wishes to travel to the UK, has permission to do so in advance of travel.
This means that all non-visa required nationals who are not applying in advance for entry clearance, will now have to apply for an ETA before they travel to the UK.
For information on your country refer to the following guidance.
Most nationalities can apply for an ETA from 27 November 2024 for entry into the UK from 8 January 2025.
Once you have received your acceptance e-mail and you know your visa requirements you should make arrangements to apply for accommodation:
ISEP: If you are an ISEP student you must apply for accommodation as outlined in your ISEP contract.
You are not required to pay anything to accommodation unless you are paying the difference for a higher rate of accommodation.
Study Abroad/Exchange Students from outside the European Union: If you are a student from outside the EU and you will be studying at Ulster for Semester 1 or a Full Academic Year you will be guaranteed an offer of accommodation provided that your completed application is received by 14 August in the year of admission.
An offer of accommodation for Semester 2 will be guaranteed provided a completed application form is received by 14 December in the year of admission.
Study/Exchange Students from the European Union: If you are a student from within the EU you may be offered accommodation provided there are vacancies remaining.
This is not guaranteed.
You will be required to select your modules before you arrive at Ulster and you will be required to submit a module request form.
All modules must be selected from our module lists by campus as these are modules that have been verified as the suitable for study abroad students.
Ensure you have read through the following module information and are clear on the subject levels of each modules before you submit your module request form.
You will receive a series of communications from our Global Opportunities team relating to Welcome/Orientation week at Ulster.
These communications will provide information relating to our meet & greet service at the airport, accommodation advice, confirmation of your modules and details of enrolment and much more!
Once we have received your module request form we will review your modules ensuring they are available and that you do not experience any timetabling clashes.
You will receive an e-mail confirming your final modules 1 to 2 weeks before teaching commences.
Contact us at goglobal@ulster.ac.uk if you need help or guidance.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/global/study-abroad:
You can study with us for a full academic year from mid-September to the end of May.
Alternatively, you can join us for Semester one September to January (Fall/Autumn) or Semester two January to May (Spring).
Before you submit an online application, you will need to confirm that your home university has an agreement with us.
Once this is confirmed and we receive a nomination e-mail, you will be invited to apply.
Find out how to apply
At Ulster we call the individual subjects that you will study modules.
They are sometimes called classes or courses at other universities.
You will be required to undertake three 20 UK credit modules per semester which is equal to 60 UK credits or 120 credits for the full academic year.
You may choose modules from a range of subjects or take a more focused approach by choosing to specialise in a specific area, the choice is yours.
Find out how to select your modules
You will see below a list of modules you can study by subject and campus.
Find out more about the modules available at the Belfast campus.
Find out more about the modules available at the Coleraine campus.
Find out more about the modules available at the Derry~Londonderry campus.
Stories from international students about their experiences of studying in Ulster University.
Information for Study Abroad/Exchange students arriving in September or January for our Study Abroad Programme!
Congratulations!
We hope to see you on campus soon.
Take a look at next steps to studying with us, including...
Our International Student Orientation is a comprehensive programme of events which will help you settle in to Ulster.
Check out...
English language requirements for admission at Ulster University.
Find out whether you will need a visa to study in the UK, which type of visa you will need and how to apply for one.
Find out the latest study abroad tuition fees for international students.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/global/study-abroad/modules:
Please note: A 20 UK credit module is worth 10 ECTS credits or 5 US credits.
Depending on the terms of our agreement with your home institution you may be restricted to a specific subject area.
If you would like to take modules outside your subject area, you must get permission from your home institution.
Before selecting your modules please ensure that you have confirmed with your home institution the correct module level you will be required to study as indicated below:
For undergraduate level students it is our recommendation you select Level 4 or Level 5 modules to ensure you have the best experience at Ulster
You will be required to select six modules in order of preference per semester from our subject list by campus (you will only be required to enrol for three):
When you find a module that you would like to study click on the module title to check the campus, semester, academic year and level of study.
Please note you must only select modules that are listed above as these modules have been verified as most suitable for study abroad students.
If you are a Postgraduate level student (Level 7) contact your Study Adviser for further information on what modules you can study.
Complete our Module Request Form once you have confirmed with your home institution your six requested modules per semester (module code, title and crn are required) that would be suitable for you study from our module lists.
You will be allocated three modules per semester based on the most suitable in terms of timetabling and these will be confirmed to you two weeks before term commences when online enrolment is available.
Due to class size restrictions, places on modules are not guaranteed for any student at Ulster but are allocated on a first-come, first served basis.
It is recommended that you are prepared to be flexible with module selection.
All selected modules must be on the same campus as it is not possible to study across all our campuses.
You have the option within the first two weeks of enrolment to amend your modules.
Please ask a member of the team for more information.
The Semester 1 Examination period falls In January.
We understand that some students wish to return home for Christmas.
In this instance students can arrange to sit an exam at their home institution for a fee of £30 or request to complete a piece of coursework instead.
If you wish to consider this option please discuss with your study advisor first of all so alternative arrangements can be made.
Semester 1 transcripts are normally released towards the end of January and Semester 2  transcripts are normally released towards the end of June by the Exam Office.
You will receive your transcript electronically via e-mail with your host institution copied.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/global/study-abroad/advisers:
Once your place has been confirmed you will be allocated a Study Adviser according to your subject area.
Your Study Adviser will advise you on module selection and will be your academic point of contact while you are on campus.
If you would like to take modules outside your subject area you must get permission from your home university.
Please be advised that Semester One exams, occur in January.
It is recommended that you check with your Study Adviser the assessment criteria for your modules if you are considering returning home in December.
For some modules, exams can be taken at your home institution for a small fee or you may be able to complete an additional piece of coursework in place of sitting an exam.
Either option has be agreed in advance with your Study Adviser.
You will find your Study Adviser below by Campus and Subject:
hrv.bennett@ulster.ac.uk
ci.woodside@ulster.ac.uk
Prof Stephen Boyd
Mr Robert McKenna
sw.boyd@ulster.ac.uk
mckenna@ulster.ac.uk
Dr Paula McFadden
Dr Denise MacDermott
p.mcfadden@ulster.ac.uk
dj.macdermott@ulster.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/global/buddyscheme/findyourbuddy:
Browse our Student Buddy profiles and request to connect with a buddy!
Juny Alex Paul
I enjoy discovering new interests and staying active.
In my free time, you’ll often find me listening to music, watching movies, reading or playing badminton.
I’ve been passionate about sports from a young age, and I’ve been playing badminton for over six years – it’s a great way to stay fit and have fun!
My favourite movies are Interstellar and Avengers – I love stories that spark imagination and adventure.
My favourite artist would have to be Michael Jackson – I’m addicted to his songs!
As for my favourite book – Harry Potter will always be a favourite of mine.
I am passionate about helping others.
As someone who understands how challenging it can be to adapt to a new environment, I’d love to support you as an international student through any obstacles and challenges you might face.
Bilal Ishaq
I love meeting new people – it’s a wonderful opportunity to share cultural perspectives and build meaningful connections.
In my free time, I enjoy exploring new places.
Since moving to Belfast, I’ve had the chance to discover some amazing places like Botanic Gardens, the Giant’s Causeway, Bangor and Derry/Londonderry – each with its own unique charm and rich history.
I’m also passionate about law, reading and cooking - especially quick and tasty meals.
I also love spending time outdoors with friends.
When I first arrived in Northern Ireland, I faced many challenges as everything was unfamiliar.
That’s why I’m excited to welcome you to Ulster – helping to make your transition smoother and making sure you feel welcome!
Olaitan Kamal Babalola
I am passionate about travelling, reading, volunteering and playing tennis.
I have been playing tennis for seven years – it’s a great way for me to stay active, unwind while enjoying some healthy competition.
Volunteering is also a big part of my life.
I find it incredibly rewarding to contribute to meaningful causes that matter and connect within my community.
I mainly volunteer through Health Outreach and the charity organisations.
I love exploring different cultures and cities as it exposes me to new countries and ideas – it’s a powerful way to gain new perspectives of life.
When I first arrived in Northern Ireland, my student buddy made a huge difference by taking me under their wing.
Now, I would love to do the same for you – to help you settle in, feel welcome and make the most of your time at Ulster!
Saima Norien
I love reading novels – some of my favourites are Harry Potter, The Alchemist by my favourite author Paula Coelho and Pride and Prejudice.
I also enjoy meeting new people, spending time with friends and cooking!
I specialise in Desi dishes, especially biryani, Kabuli Pulao, and Chinese-style fried rice.
Travelling and hiking are passions of mine.
I love experiencing the beauty of nature and discovering how vast and incredible the world truly is.
Since moving to the UK, I’ve had the chance to explore places like Derry~Londonderry, Fermanagh, London, and Newcastle—each trip has been a great experience!
I understand the challenges that come with being a new international student, and I’d love to be there to guide and support you as you settle into life in Northern Ireland.
Chisom Okoye
I love playing football and exploring creative ideas around business and innovation!
Here at Ulster, I play for the Christian Union football team, which has been a great way to stay active and connect with fellow students.
I also love to play table tennis and occasionally join in on other recreational sports when the opportunity comes up.
As for my passion for business and innovation I’m particularly drawn to how innovation can be used to solve real-world problems, especially in areas like sustainability and entrepreneurship.
I enjoy exploring creative solutions to business challenges, and I’m especially interested in how to reduce food waste, particularly in Africa.
I understand the importance of having someone to rely on as a new international student, to answer questions and provide guidance.
I want to be the welcoming face that greets you!
Anthony Kobina Ocran
I enjoy reading in my spare time, especially Christian literature, as it helps me deepen and enrich my faith.
I also love watching football – it’s my favourite way to unwind!
I’m a big fan of Bayern Munich.
I am passionate about helping others, and I’m excited to support you as a new international student.
I look forward to helping you settle into campus life and making your transition smooth and as enjoyable as possible.
Muhammad Usman Shamas
I am passionate about exploring new cultures, traveling, and photography.
I love spending time in nature – whether it’s hiking or just relaxing outdoors with friends.
On campus, you’ll often find me getting involved in events, volunteering and connecting with others.
I’m also deeply interested in technology – I enjoy building projects in AI and blockchain.
As someone who has experienced the challenges of adjusting to a new environment – academically, socially, and culturally – I understand how overwhelming it can feel.
I’m excited to support you, share practical advice, help you settle in and create a friendly space for you here at Ulster.
Ali Suhail
I am passionate about sports and dance – two hobbies that have been a huge part of my life for as long as I can remember.
As an avid basketball and chess player, I’ve had the opportunity to win several trophies in district-level competitions.
Growing up in a sports orientated family helped spark a love for several sports: cricket, volleyball, badminton and table tennis.
As for dancing - I specialise in free style, Bollywood and folk dancing.
I’m excited to welcome you to Ulster and support you on your journey here.
Whether its adjusting to campus life or finding your way in a new city – I’m here to help.
Hajia Salsabila Osman
I love exploring new places, meeting people from diverse backgrounds and reading and listening to music.
My favourite artists are Dolly Parton and Kenny Rogers – their music always brings a smile to my face.
Reading is another passion of mine; it helps broaden my knowledge and understanding of various subjects, cultures, and perspectives.
I also enjoy staying active through hiking and playing casual sports with friends.
Physical activity keeps me energised and helps me to maintain a positive outlook.
I understand how challenging and overwhelming the transition of studying at a new campus in a different country can be.
That’s why I would love to be your student buddy – to offer support, share guidance, and help you feel both at home on campus and in Northern Ireland.
Devas Shah
I enjoy going to the gym, reading, cooking and playing cricket.
Cricket has always been one of my favourite sports – I enjoy staying active, building strong bonds with my teammates and challenging myself to improve.
Reading is one of my favourite pastimes.
I particularly love psychology books.
I’m fascinated by how they can influence the way you think and challenge you to grow.
My favourites would have to be “The Power of Now” by Eckhart Tolle – it’s had a lasting impact on how I view life.
I’m someone who values personal growth, connection, and being there for others.
As your Student Buddy, I’d love to support you throughout your journey at Ulster!
Nishita Sah
I enjoy playing badminton and I am passionate about volunteering and working with children.
I have a strong interest in science and healthcare, especially in areas like immunology and the use of virtual reality in medicine.
In my free time, I enjoy cooking and exploring new places.
Some of my favourite dishes to cook are Momo and chicken curry!
Since moving to Northern Ireland, I’ve really enjoyed visiting Portstewart and Portrush – the scenery is breathtaking, and the coastal walks are incredibly refreshing!
I would like to support you as an incoming student by providing you with a warm and welcoming environment here at Ulster.
Whether it’s answering your questions, showing you around, or simply grabbing a coffee and chatting, I’m here to support you in your journey.
Foluke Alufoge
I love listening to music across a variety of genres, as it helps me relax and stay inspired.
I also enjoy watching football matches at Brandywell Stadium and taking spontaneous walks around Derry City.
I love connecting with new people and having meaningful conversations, engaging in fun group activities or spending quality time with friends from school and my local church.
I’m certain it would be a delight to welcome you to Ulster and to help you adjust to life in Northern Ireland.
Whether it’s showing you around campus, to helping you navigate a new city – I’m here to help.
If you have looked through the Student Buddy profiles and want to connect with a buddy then click the button below and fill out the short application form.
If you have any questions or need any additional information, please email globalbuddies@ulster.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/student/international:
Your support hub for the journey.
From settling in and accessing key services, to staying informed and making the most of your university experience.
As an international student, the International Student Advisory Service (ISAS) is here to support you every step of the way.
From pre-arrival and registration, through to graduation, our team is here to ensure your Ulster experience is unforgettable.
Welcome to the start of your adventure at Ulster University!
This section contains essential resources to help you prepare for your arrival next semester.
From our UUniReady preparation app and the Global Buddy Scheme to our International Student Orientation schedule, you'll find everything you need to feel supported and ready for life at Ulster.
UUniReady is a unique app-based preparation programme designed for international students enrolling at Ulster University....
Preparing you for Ulster University
Our Global Buddy scheme is a peer-to-peer support scheme for new international students.
If you are an international student it's likely that you will have lots of questions.
This section is your go-to guide for everything you need as an international student at Ulster University.
From joining social activities to accessing academic English support, you’ll find further information to help you succeed academically and socially.
Explore the links below and make the most of your university experience!
Find out more about our weekly drop-in sessions and social events scheduled for the semester ahead.
Get help with essay structure, referencing, presentation skills and much more.
A step by step guide to completing your application to open a bank account in the UK.
Guidance on how to access healthcare in the UK.
Guidance on staying compliant with the terms of your visa permission.
Motoring advice for students wishing to drive in the UK.
Academic forms, bank and doctor registration letters for international students.
An overview of immigration advice legislation and the areas in which the university can support.
This section provides quick access to key resources international students use during their time at Ulster.
Whether you need to learn more about Blackboard Learn Ultra , or want information on accessing IT support, you can find it here.
Blackboard Learn (also known as BB Learn) is the University's virtual learning environment, which gives students online access to course...
For support with your University IT systems such as portal and emails.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/global/global-partnerships:
At Ulster, our global partnerships reflect our focus on renowned teaching inspired by first-class collaborative research; accessible, supportive educational environments; and ambition to ensure our students and researchers excel.
Partnerships is core to Ulster University’s strategy, collaboration a central tenet of our Purpose and Values.
At Ulster, we are proud of our growing TNE collaborations across the world.
Working with our like-minded partners, our focus is to deliver educational opportunities that benefits students, researchers and society alike.
The Global Partnerships Team are dedicated to supporting Ulster and our partners establish articulation (credit transfer) programmes, create staff or student mobility opportunities, or build research or capacity building partnerships.
Find out more here.
Students from some of our global partners share their experience of studying at Ulster.
Designed for UU staff interested in partnering with another institution.
Our Partnerships Toolkit is a step-by-step guide to support you develop and manage global partners.
Study, Work, Volunteer Abroad.
Are you an Ulster student looking at studying abroad or an international student wishing to study for a semester at Ulster?
Check out our GoGlobal pages
Are you a student studying under one of our TNE models or wishing to articulate or transfer to Ulster from one of our partner institutions?
Check out the information below.
These events will help you apply to Ulster University.
Look our for events in your area.
One University, three locations
Our Global Partnership team are here to guide and support you!
Email Global Partnerships

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/global/events:
We offer live events online aswell as in-person offline.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/student/courses:
Here you can view your timetables, key calendar dates, module enrolment, make a change to your course or leave the university.
Details on how to enrol on your course for new and returning students.
Understand your course structure at Ulster University.
Learn how modules, credits and timelines work, and who manages your learning journey.
Find clear guidance on transferring to another course of study, including support with fees, eligibility, and next steps.
Find out more about your record of compulsory and optional modules and how to check it.
Find out how to amend modules on your academic record.
How to apply for module exemptions on the basis of previous study.
All UU students must download the SEAtS app on their smartphone.
Checking in to classes regularly helps you stay on track with your studies.
More information on the algorithms used to calculate degree awards for Ulster University courses.
Here you can update your personal details, address, request a transcript, confirm your attendance and access your higher education achievement record (HEAR).
Discover the wide range of academic support available including writing feedback, peer mentoring, digital learning help, study skills resources and one‑to‑one guidance to help you succeed at university.
If something goes wrong or you are unhappy, you can complain about the academic services and other services provided by the University.
The Student Academic Affairs Team (SAAT) supports you through various processes at Ulster University, including complaints, harassment, academic appeals, and misconduct, ensuring fair and sensitive handling of your concerns  at every stage.
Complete if you are taking a break from studies and intend to return.
Complete if absent for more than 3 days for medical or personal reasons.
The Withdrawal form is to be used if you are thinking about leaving your course.
Complete if you need to change your address.
Return form to your campus Registry Office.
Registered students can submit an online request for a change of legal or preferred name.
Complete if extenuating circumstances apply to your performance in coursework or an examination.
Following discussions with the appropriate Course Directors, you can apply for a change of course.
Complete to change your module.
Ulster University has common regulations for all courses, with some accredited by Professional Bodies that may have specific differences, which...
Find out more about studying abroad as part of your Ulster degree.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/student/fees:
Information and advice about course fees and a guide to budgeting for your living costs, as well as sources for financial assistance including hardship funding, scholarships, prizes and awards.
Find out how much your tuition fees will cost.
Tuition fees payment methods and terms.
Learn more about our discounts including the Alumni Discount and the Upfront Payment Discount.
Tuition fee payment scams are on the rise with scammers taking advantage of new students.
Learn how to recognise, avoid and protect yourself.
Whether coming to university for the first time, or returning for further study, check out the funding available for both undergraduate and postgraduate study.
Learn how you can deal with any delays in receiving your student funding, change your course details or mode of attendance.
Scholarships can support your studies at Ulster University.
Check to see if you automatically qualify for one of our Bursaries.
If you are experiencing financial hardship, check if you’re eligible to apply to our financial hardship fund.
Find out more about steps to take to manage your money, living away from home, and minding your mental health.
Complete if you are eligible for a tuition fee refund.
For Ulster University staff on an approved programme of study applying for fee exemption.
Useful contacts within Finance.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/student/exams:
View the exam timetable, publication of marks and access past papers.
Key dates for the publication of marks and decisions.
View the latest exam timetable dates.
Timetable Publication Dates Examination Period Timetable Publication Date Semester 1 06/01/25 – 17/01/25 Provisional examination timetable available from close of business Wednesday 27 November 2024 Final timetable available from Wednesday 4 December 2024 Personal timetable available from Friday 6 December 2024 Semester 2 12/05/25 – 26/05/25 Provisional examination timetable available from Wednesday 26 March 2025 Final timetable available from Wednesday 2 April 2025 Personal timetable available from Friday 4 April 2025 Supplementary / Re-sits 13/08/25 – 21/08/25 Final timetable available from Friday 18 July 2025 Personal timetable available from Tuesday 22 July 2025 Semester 3 01/09/2025 – 05/09/25 Final timetable available from Tuesday 29 July 2025 Personal timetable available from Thursday 31 July 2025
Semester 1
06/01/25 – 17/01/25
Semester 2
12/05/25 – 26/05/25
Supplementary / Re-sits
13/08/25 – 21/08/25
Semester 3
01/09/2025 – 05/09/25
Submissions, marks and feedback.
How to access past examination papers.
An overview of how academic progress is achieved.
Who to contact and how to repeat with or without attendance.
If you believe that extenuating circumstances apply to your performance in coursework or an examination.
Appeals guidance and forms.
Policies and procedures surrounding cheating and plagiarism.
Includes information on exam conduct.
Examinations regulations and guidelines.
Important policies and procedures.
Information on reasonable adjustments for examinations.
How to contact the Examinations Office.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/student/careers:
Get advice, find the latest job and placement opportunities, access the Edge Award and other online resources that will support your future career prospects.
Get the advice that will help you progress your employability, be more competitive in your job search and make better decisions for your future career.
Check out UUTemps
UUTemps provides paid, part time job opportunities that are campus based and exclusively available to UU students.
With an hourly rate of £13.10 and roles available across campuses throughout the year, we offer the ideal opportunities to boost your income.
Roles range from Student Ambassadors, to event support roles and much more.
Nurturing student success
Welcome to the Ulster University Graduate Attributes!
Thriving Individual, Engaged Learner, Collaborative Professional and Active Citizen are essential attributes, with skills and behaviours to enhance your academic journey.
University is more than an academic degree.
As you engage with your programme of study, extracurricular activities, and campus life, you’ll have countless opportunities to develop these attributes.
Take control of your future career with a placement year.
Discover the work placement routes available to help you step ahead of the competition.
Whether you are searching for a placement or getting prepared to study abroad, you need to consider the costs involved in doing so.
Develop new skills, grow confidence and build your networks by engaging in developmental extra curricular activities through the Ulster EDGE Award.
Learn about opportunities to work internationally during your time at Ulster.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/student/success:
Get access to academic and study skills resources and support throughout your learning journey to enhance your experience at Ulster University.
Information and resources to help you develop your skills and ability on a range of topics.
Explore our academic skills section, offering valuable resources and strategies to help you excel in your university studies and achieve...
For All Students
Enhance your productivity and accessibility by viewing our user guides for Microsoft 365 tools and much more.
Practice and develop your Maths and Stats knowledge across a wide range of topics and boost your academic journey at...
Discover essential study skills with our comprehensive guide, designed to support your academic success and enhance your learning experience at...
Your student experience goes beyond academics.
The Student Success team is here to support your belonging, inclusion, and smooth transition, enriching your journey at Ulster.
Get ready for university with helpful resources for both Undergraduate and Postgraduate students.
Explore the Get Started, Get Connected, and...
You are part of the Ulster University community.
Explore and attend events and workshops throughout the year to have the...
Building connections throughout your university experience is an essential part of your journey.
Explore the connections and opportunities available to...
Working in partnership to ensure that our students are active collaborators in our thinking, planning and delivery, resulting in high...
For many, the move to higher education can be a significant and exciting change.
You will find yourself asking questions like, 'How do I do that?' 'Now what?' 'Where should I be?' 'Is there anyone whom I can ask for help?'
These are all normal questions that arise as you learn to handle the new independence that comes with being a university student.
At Ulster University, the Student Success Centre is here for you!
Browse the academic and study skills sessions the Student Success Centre run and book a session.
To welcome our incoming 2025/26 students, we have created a dedicated pre-induction area.
This is designed for undergraduate, postgraduate taught, and apprenticeship students to help you navigate the first steps of your academic journey at Ulster University.
For staff resources and details as to how you can refer a student to a member of the Student Success team.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/student/your-campus:
Information on campuses and facilities at Ulster university, including building access, car parking, recycling and lost property.
Learn more about courses, services and events at your campus.
Great offers, shared by real businesses near your campus.
These offers and deals are for staff and students of Ulster University.
Your Student ID card includes details of your student number and course and is needed if you wish to borrow books from the library, for car parking and to gain access into certain areas of the Belfast, Coleraine and Derry~Londonderry campuses.
Please remember that cards need to be updated approximately every 30 days to ensure you have access to the areas that you need.
You can do this by tapping your card on the card readers which are located at the main reception on each campus.
Your Joining Instructions details your student ID card collection point, however if you have any queries, please contact your campus Registry Office/Student Services HQ.
If you have not yet uploaded a photo, please upload using the photo upload centre and contact your campus Registry Office once complete.
More on Student ID Cards
Belfast campus Belfast Campus - Block BA Location Access Weekdays Weekend York Street Entrance Public 7:00am to 7:00pm N/A Card 6:00am to 7:00am 7:00pm to 10:00pm 9:00am to 4:00pm Academy Street Entrance Public 7:00am to 7:00pm N/A Card N/A N/A Belfast Campus - Block BC Location Access Weekdays Weekend York Street Entrance Public 7:00am to 10:00pm 8:00am to 6:00pm Card 10:00pm to 7:00am 6:00pm to 8:00am Frederick Street Entrance Public 7:00am to 7:00pm N/A Card 7:00pm to 10:00pm N/A York Lane Entrance Public 7:00am to 7:00pm N/A Card 7:00pm to 10:00pm N/A Belfast Campus - Block BD Location Access Weekdays Weekend York Street Entrance Public 7:00am to 7:00pm N/A Card 7:00pm to 10:00pm N/A Coleraine campus Coleraine Campus Location Weekdays Weekend Remarks Main Entrance 24 hour opening 24 hour opening Access Control 24/7 at weekends, opened by arrangement Octagon Entrance 7:00am to 10:00pm Closed Weekend by prior arrangement Sports Centre View Sports Centre opening times Jordanstown Sports Village The only entrance into the Jordanstown Sports Village spaces  from Semester 1 will be through the Sports Centre reception.
The opening hours of the Jordanstown Sports Village are as follows: Location Monday to Friday Saturday Sunday Jordanstown Sports Village 7:00am to 10:15pm 9:00am to 5:45pm 9:00am to 5:45pm Magee campus Magee Campus Location Weekdays Weekend Remarks Main Entrance (MD) 24 hour opening Main front door always open MA Monday to Thursday 8:00am to 5:00pm Friday 8:00am to 4:00pm Closed Staff can access building outside of these times by using access control MB* Monday to Thursday 8:00am to 5:00pm Friday 8:00am to 4:00pm Closed Staff can access building outside of these times by using access control MC* Monday to Thursday 8:00am to 5:00pm Friday 8:00am to 4:00pm Closed Staff can access building outside of these times by using access control Carrickmore Monday to Thursday 8:00am to 5:00pm Friday 8:00am to 4:00pm Closed Staff can access building outside of these times by using access control MD* Monday to Thursday 8:00am to 5:00pm Friday 8:00am to 4:00pm Closed Staff can access building outside of these times by using access control MF computer labs 8:00am to 5:00pm Access Control Access Control in operation 5:00pm to 8:00am MG computer labs 8:00am to 5:00pm Access Control Access Control in operation 5:00pm to 8:00am MK Access Control Access Control only MH Access Control Access Control only Foyle Arts (Back/Front) Access Control Closed/Access Control Access Control only MS Monday to Thursday 9:00am to 5:00pm Friday 9:00am to 4:00pm Access Control Access Control outside weekday hours and at weekends MU Monday to Thursday 8:00am to 5:00pm Friday 8:00am to 4:00pm Access Control Access Control outside weekday hours and at weekends Sports Centre View Sports Centre opening times
Location
Weekdays
Weekend
Remarks
Main Entrance
24 hour opening
Access Control 24/7 at weekends, opened by arrangement
Octagon Entrance
7:00am to 10:00pm
Closed
Weekend by prior arrangement
Sports Centre
View Sports Centre opening times
The only entrance into the Jordanstown Sports Village spaces  from Semester 1 will be through the Sports Centre reception.
The opening hours of the Jordanstown Sports Village are as follows:
Main Entrance (MD)
Main front door always open
Monday to Thursday
8:00am to 5:00pm
Friday
8:00am to 4:00pm
Staff can access building outside of these times by using access control
MB*
MC*
MD*
MF computer labs
Access Control
Access Control in operation 5:00pm to 8:00am
MG computer labs
MK
Access Control only
MH
Foyle Arts (Back/Front)
Closed/Access Control
MS
9:00am to 5:00pm
9:00am to 4:00pm
Access Control outside weekday hours and at weekends
MU
Student Information on Staying Safe.
Car parks are available across all campuses for students.
Cycling Locations
Dedicated cycle hubs, comprising locker storage, shower and changing and cycle parking, are available on the Belfast, Coleraine and Derry~Londonderry campuses.
Save 50% on bus and rail journeys within Northern Ireland.
Travel and explore all over Northern Ireland and connect with friends, family, work and study.
Free period products available in 22 toilet facilities across the University.
All lost property found on University campuses should be handed in to the relevant main Reception Desk as soon as it is found.
If you have lost an item of property on campus, report it to Reception as soon as possible.
When the missing property has been found, you should make arrangements to collect it from Reception.
Learn more about recycling and waste reduction at Ulster.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/student/whats-on:
Learn about activities, societies and events across Ulster.
Ulster University Students Union are here to represent, support and connect you.
We provide a first class experience through our engagement with our membership, so get involved!
Join a fitness class or on-demand session.
Find out the latest prices and when gyms are open.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/student/events:
Events for students!
Stay connected, meet new friends, and make the most of your student experience.
View past and upcoming sports fixtures.
Join a sports class.
All students are welcome to attend any events listed on this page at any campus.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/catering:
Find something to eat or drink on Campus in one of the many Cafes, Bars and Retail Catering outlets across the University’s Estate.
Our Catering Services are delivered by a number of service partners.
We offer a wide range of food and drink  served in modern innovative spaces around Campus that are ideal for socializing with friends and colleagues.
We will deliver eating and drinking  experiences and  choice which offers convenience and value balanced with cultural and dietary trends, to fit around academic and social schedules in a welcoming environment that compliments  your social needs.
Check out the restaurants and cafes available around our Belfast Campus.
Check out the restaurants and cafes available around our Coleraine Campus.
Check out the restaurants and cafes available around our Derry~Londonderry Campus.
Check out the restaurants and cafes available around our Jordanstown.
Ulster University Offers Great offers, shared by real businesses near your campus.
Log in to view offers (Opens in a new window)

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/student/safety:
Sexual Consent Consent is OMFG- an ongoing, mutual, and freely-given agreement to take part in sexual activity.
It applies to all relationships, all genders, and all sexualities.
To give consent or to get consent from someone else might seem straightforward, but the complexity of relationships and sexual encounters at university can create uncertainty.
Find out more about Consent
Consent is OMFG- an ongoing, mutual, and freely-given agreement to take part in sexual activity.
Report and Support Ulster University is committed to supporting students impacted by Sexual Violence and/or Sexual Misconduct.
This is the university’s online platform for reporting your experience.
If you have experienced Sexual Violence, or you are concerned about someone else who has experienced this, we can provide support and guidance.
There are two ways you can access support and report Sexual Violence and/or Sexual Misconduct.
Report and Support Support Services
Ulster University is committed to supporting students impacted by Sexual Violence and/or Sexual Misconduct.
As many students begin or return to university or college we want you to understand how to stay safe, how to protect your property and how to be a good neighbour.
Take a look at the PSNI advice to find out how you can keep yourself as safe as possible.
While it is always safer to be outdoors with other people, there are occasions when you will be on your own.
Learn how to keep yourself safe and how to look after personal belongings.
If you are in an emergency situation and need police help, but can't speak:
“Is Angela about tonight?”
Code for: I need your help.
Protect yourself while socialising by asking for “Angela”
Car and road safety guidance to:
On campus fire and evacuation guidance.
Our mental health information will explain the range of common mental health issues and let you know how to access help and support for yourself or others.
Find out more about our counselling service and who to call when you are in need.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/student/key-links:
Key links for students.
Get to know the services available and where to find them.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/student/key-links/induction:
Find out more about your Campus

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/student/courses/timetabling:
Stay organised with Publish: Your personalised student timetable.
View, create and access on the go.
Semester 1 timetables are released 2 weeks before semester starts.
Please note, timetables are subject to change until week 3.
Follow these easy steps to get the most out of Publish:
You must save your timetable to enable all of the features.
Timetables are subject to change until week 3
All Ulster University staff and students access their academic timetables using Publish.
Learn more about Publish, the timetabling tool for students.
If you have any further queries, please email timetabling@ulster.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/student/calendar:
You are viewing the current Academic year dates.
Some future calendar dates  are available.
Next three upcoming dates.
22 September - Teaching begins
10 December - Winter Graduations
12 December - Teaching ends
Listed below are all dates for Academic year 2025 / 2026 .
Teaching begins
Monday 22 September 2025
Winter Graduations
Wednesday 10 December 2025
This lasts for 8 days until Wednesday 17 December 2025
Wednesday 10 December - Thursday 11 December-  Belfast
Friday 12 December - Coleraine
Tuesday 16 December - Wednesday 17 Dec - Derry~Londonderry
Go to the Graduation site (opens in new window) for more information.
Teaching ends
Friday 12 December 2025
Christmas Vacation begins
Monday 15 December 2025
Christmas
Thursday 25 December 2025
University Closed (Christmas)
Christmas Vacation ends
Friday 2 January 2026
Examination Period
Monday 5 January 2026
This lasts for 12 days until Friday 16 January 2026
Autumn Semester Ends
Friday 23 January 2026
Spring Semester Begins
Monday 26 January 2026
St Patrick's Day
Tuesday 17 March 2026
University Closure Day
Easter Vacation Begins
Monday 30 March 2026
Easter Vacation Ends
Friday 10 April 2026
May Bank Holiday
Monday 4 May 2026
Revision Week (non-teaching)
Tuesday 5 May 2026
This lasts for 4 days until Friday 8 May 2026
Sunday 10 May 2026
This lasts for 16 days until Monday 25 May 2026
Spring Semester Ends
Friday 29 May 2026
Last Date for Meetings for Boards of Examiners
Thursday 11 June 2026
Summer Graduations
Friday 3 July 2026
This lasts for 1 day until Friday 3 July 2026
Monday 29 June - Thursday 2 July -  Belfast
Monday 6 July - Wednesday 8 July - Derry~Londonderry
Thursday 9 July - Friday 10 July - Coleraine
Examination Resit Period
Wednesday 12 August 2026
This lasts for 9 days until Thursday 20 August 2026
Meetings of Boards of Examiners
Monday 24 August 2026
This lasts for 5 days until Friday 28 August 2026
Monday 20 July 2026
Examination period
Monday 31 August 2026
Summer Semester ends
Friday 18 September 2026
This lasts for 1 day until Friday 18 September 2026
Find out more about:

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/student/courses/attendance:
Please remember to only check into the classes you're assigned to.
For group sessions, you will see all available options in SEAtS, but rest assured – you’ll be removed from any sessions you’re not assigned to.
Please allow 24-48 hours after completing your enrolment to gain access to the SEAtS system .
If you have newly enrolled, this is why you cannot access the system.
Please try again after this time.
For detailed instructions or other check-in options, see the user guide below.
If you're unable to log into the app, please download the SEAtS App Quick Fixes document and follow the instructions to set up your phone properly.
If the issue persists, please send a screenshot to attendance@ulster.ac.uk along with your student B number for further assistance.
If your calendar in the app shows "no events" or if your scheduled classes aren’t appearing, please email the attendance@ulster.ac.uk team with your B number, the name(s) of your missing modules, and a screenshot of the issue.
We’ll investigate it as soon as possible.
In the meantime, please notify your lecturer of your presence in the session.
Rest assured, since the sessions aren’t showing in the app, you will not be marked as absent, and your attendance within the app won’t be affected.
For group sessions, you will see all available options in SEAtS, but rest assured – you’ll be removed from any sessions you’re not assigned to, and there’s no need to contact the Attendance team regarding this.
Rest assured, your attendance record will not be negatively impacted by this.
"Absence Requests" on the SEAtS App are only available to Student Visa holders.
If you do not have a student visa, your Absence Request will be automatically rejected .
In this case, you must contact your Lecturer/Course Director directly if you wish to request an excused absence.
If you’re a student visa holder and need to be absent from class, follow the below steps to request an absence in SEAtS.
Your request will be sent to the UKVI Attendance team, and you’ll receive an email notification confirming receipt and whether your request has been approved or denied.
These sessions are not the same as a Bluetooth check-in.
In these sessions, the lecturer will show you a QR code.
To check in, open the SEAtS app, click the session you with to check in for, then click “Check-in,” select “QR Code,” and use your smartphone to scan the code.
We encourage students to check in using their smartphones and Bluetooth, as this is the simplest method.
However, we understand that there may be situations where this isn't possible, and you may prefer to check in using a laptop or tablet.
To check in via a laptop or tablet, please follow these steps:
Otherwise, please approach the lecturer responsible for your session and ask them to manually mark your attendance.
SEAtS is an app designed for students at the Jordanstown, Belfast, Coleraine, or Derry~Londonderry campuses.
Please note that SEAtS is not available for students studying in London, Birmingham, or Manchester .
For any concerns, please contact;
To report an absence :  please e-mail QAHE.attendance@qa.com
The QAHE Compliance Team monitors student attendance and will send alerts when a certain number of absences is reached.
If you have any questions, please get in touch with the QAHE attendance team at ulstercompliance@qa.com or call 020 3883 5879 (Monday to Friday, 9am - 5pm).
If you require a letter to confirm you are a student at Ulster University for your bank, council tax or for social security benefits, you can download this information from your student portal once you are a registered student.
If you have any difficulties downloading or scanning the form, just contact your campus Registry Office and we can print the form on your behalf.
The attendance team does not share attendance data with Student Finance.
For attendance confirmation, please contact studentloans@ulster.ac.uk directly.
For online sessions, the lecturer will present a QR code.
To check in, open the SEAtS app, click the online session you with to check in for, then click “Check-in,” select “QR Code,” and use your smartphone to scan the code provided by your lecturer.
As SEAtS was newly introduced in September 2024, some initial challenges were experienced which led to attendance not being fully captured.
Unfortunately, It isn’t possible to amend previous records and your lecture would be aware of the issues experienced within semester 1.
Students with an Apple device can download from the App Store by clicking here , or alternatively search for SEAtS Mobile in the App Store on your device.
Students with an Android device can download from Google Play by clicking here , or alternatively search for SEAtS Mobile in the Google Play Store.
Once downloaded, you will then register and log in.
To register for SEAtS, click into the SEAtS app.
This will automatically take you to the SEAtS App login page.
Here you will enter your Ulster University e-mail address and accept any notifications (notifications will notify you of any classes about to begin).
You will then be taken to an authorisation page, in which you input your Ulster University credentials.
There are a number of automated permissions required on initial installation of the SEAtS Mobile app.
These permissions ensure the effective usage of the app and should be enabled on logging into the app for the first time.
Disabling permissions within the phone settings afterwards could result in being unable to check in to scheduled teaching activities.
Bluetooth - Select 'OK' Location Access - Select 'OK' Your Location - 'Allow while using the app' Precise Location - 'On' ( Please note: SEAtS does not use GPS, so students can be assured that their location is not being tracked.
The app uses Bluetooth to connect to a beacon within a teaching location at Ulster University only ).
Access to camera - 'OK' Notifications - 'Allow'
After logging into the application, you will be directed to your home page.
SEAtS will automatically synchronise with your timetable through the Publish app.
Students are encouraged to continue viewing their timetable via Publish.
More information about your timetable and instructions on downloading Publish can be found here.
Details that can be found on your home page include:
Tapping the navigation icon (three dots) when it appears on any page at the bottom left of the Application, will open the navigation menu and will display the following screen
The default navigation options are:
Once you have downloaded the SEAtS app, and registered with your Ulster University e-mail address, you will be ready to check into your scheduled classes.
Students must attend scheduled classes, enable bluetooth and open the SEAtS app to check in once they are physically present in the room.
If you need to take a break from attending classes, please follow the provided guidelines and submit the necessary forms.
This will help maintain your academic record and ensure you fully understand your tuition fee obligations and the potential impact of non-attendance on your student finance.
Click the button above to find forms regarding:
How to download a confirmation of attendance letter to confirm your registration and course details.
If you have any further queries, please email attendance@ulster.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/student/forms:
Useful student course, fee, expenses and exam related forms.
Use this Direct Debit form if you are unable to complete electronically during Online Enrolment.
Students should visit the Digital Claimant Portal to complete one of the following forms:
Complete to defer the first sitting of an examination or coursework to the supplementary period.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/global/pre-arrival/contact:
The International Student Advisory Service (ISAS) is here to help.
The International Student Advisory Service provide a dedicated service for international students on non-academic and welfare matters such as immigration and adjusting to life in Northern Ireland.
Our highly experienced and professional team specialise in UK student immigration advice and can support you with wide range of immigration-related matters.
This includes:
Non-immigration support is also available, we can provide advice related to living and learning in Northern Ireland.
We organise the University's International Student Orientation programmes and coordinate events for international students throughout the year.
The team can give you advice and support on the follow non-immigration matters:
If you have a query relating to an application, fees, your student record or any other area other than international student advice/support please contact the University switchboard :
If you are an international student and have a general query and need a quick answer you can:
If you want to meet with a member of the team on campus, you can drop-in between 10am-4pm Monday to Friday during term-time, at the following locations:
We will also be available at our weekly Coffee and Chat sessions, these are informal drop-ins on each campus which run throughout the academic year.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/student/library:
Across our campus libraries you will find:
Borrow a laptop from a campus library for up to 4 hours at a time.
Use the Library Catalogue to discover what is available on the shelves at each campus Library and access our eBooks collection.
You can also view your Library account (\'My Account\') to see what you have on loan, renew books online and check your reservations.
Search for a particular journal title or browse alphabetically or by discipline.
These guides will help you find books, journals, databases, and other resources to support you with your studies.
Access details, descriptions, passwords, user guides and more.
Essential Library information you'll need to support you during your studies
The Library Service offers 24-hour spaces to Ulster students and staff.
24-hour access includes study environments, social learning spaces and access to computing, printing, scanning and photocopying facilities.
Summer Library (staffed) opening hours from Saturday 24th May to Sunday 21st September 2025 are shown below.
Please note, there is no weekend staffed opening during the summer.
Please note, the Library will be closed on Monday 14th July & Tuesday 15th July 2025 .
Summer staffed opening hours: Sat 24th May - Sun 21st September 2025 Day Open Closed Monday-Thursday 8.45am 5pm Friday 8.45am 4pm Saturday & Sunday CLOSED

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/student/sports:
Sports Services membership and facilities are open to students, staff and members of the public.
Join us for one of our fitness classes.
Les Mills classes are available on demand.
Opening times from June 2025 Summer Operating Hours come into effect from Monday, 30th June until Sunday, 31st August Belfast Monday to Friday - 07:00 to 21:00 Saturday and Sunday - 09:00 to 17:30 Coleraine Summer opening hours commence Monday 16th June Monday to Friday - 07:15 to 21:00 Saturday and Sunday - 09:00 to 17:30 Ulster University Sports Village Monday to Friday - 07:00 to 21:00 Saturday and Sunday - 09:00 to 17:30 Derry~Londonderry Monday to Thursday - 08:45 am to 21:00 Friday - 08:45 to 20:00 Saturday - 10:00 to 15:00 Sunday - closed
Summer Operating Hours come into effect from Monday, 30th June until Sunday, 31st August
Summer opening hours commence Monday 16th June

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/student/panel:
Working in partnership to ensure that our students are active collaborators in our thinking, planning and delivery, resulting in high quality services.
Ulster University and UUSU established the first Student Panel in June 2020, now in its fourth year, the Student Panel sits within the Student Success Centre.
The purpose of the student led panel is to ensure that our students are active collaborators and play a central role in shaping the direction of the student experience here at Ulster.
Through this partnership and placing the student voice at the heart our thinking, planning and delivery it enables Ulster to continuously enhance and provide high quality services.
The Student Panel is co-chaired by UUSU President/Vice President and Head of the Student Success Centre.
The Student Panel is a group of students drawn from across the University with a specific demographic, who will represent the student body, in relation to current and future proposals.
Regardless of campus, within the panel there should be, at least one:
The members of the Student Panel are recruited on an annual basis, through UUTemps at the beginning of each academic year.
To find out more about getting involved please email studentpanel@ulster.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/student/support/digital-help:
Guidance on getting started with digital software, how to log in and store passwords safely.
Getting you started with digital software used at Ulster.
Learn how to access:
Self-service password reset within O365 enables you to securely reset your University account password 24/7.
Alternatively visit our Password Kiosks located within the library on each campus.
Information on how to find out about your initial password.
When you log in for the first time, you will be required to set up Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA), which will help protect your data and our IT services against sophisticated cyberattacks.
OneDrive cloud storage to store, organise, and access files anywhere as part of Ulster’s Microsoft 365 environment.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/student/support/digital-help/blackboard:
Blackboard Learn (also known as BB Learn) is the University's virtual learning environment, which gives students online access to course materials, learning resources, assignments, multiple choice tests and other content relevant to your course.
Blackboard Learn support resources and latest updates on Blackboard Learn and Turnitin.
Find out more about the Centre for Digital Learning Enhancement

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/ds/students/printing:
Advice and Guidance on using the Print, Copy, Scan services, including mobile printing at Ulster.
Students have access to multi-function devices (MFD) that will allow you to print, copy and scan documents through the Papercut Portal .
The Papercut Portal offers a secure cashless payment system that is linked to your ID card that will allow you to add funds, from PayPal or credit/debit cards, to your PaperCut account.
These can then be used to pay for printing, copying and scanning at any MFD.
The Multi-Function Devices are accessed using your student ID card and the device will retrieve your prints and automatically input your email address for the scanning service.
Mobile printing is also available.
You can upload documents for printing to the PaperCut Portal or email from any device that can access your University email account.
All students should be aware that all material published on the Web is copyright and can only be printed or distributed if the author has granted permission, explicitly or implicitly, to do so.
University material posted by your tutor via email, or on the Web, may only be copied or printed for your personal use.
For guidance on using this service and answers to Frequently Asked Questions, please see the PaperCut Student Guide
You can also Live Chat with a Service Desk team member.
When a team member is available you will see a button on the bottom right of this screen.
If the button is not visible, you can still contact us via the methods above.
Monday - Friday 8am - 8pm Saturday – Sunday 1.30pm – 5pm
View Extended Closure Service Desk Hours

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/student/support/contacts:
We are here to support you.
View team contact information and locations.
Overlooking the River Foyle, the main building of our beautiful Magee campus is surrounded by state of the art buildings, housing laboratories, workshops, lecture theatres and performance studios.
Admissions Enquiries Submit an admissions enquiry Belfast Admissions Contacts Campus Opening Hours Contact information Belfast Room BD-03-015 Ulster University 2-24 York Street Belfast Co.
Antrim BT15 1AP Belfast Campus Map Monday - Thursday 8:45am - 5:00pm Friday 8:45am - 4:00pm +44 (0)28 9536 7890 Coleraine Admissions Contacts Campus Opening Hours Contact information Coleraine Room L009 Ulster University Cromore Road Coleraine Co.
Londonderry BT52 1SA Coleraine Campus Map Monday - Thursday 8:45am - 5:00pm Friday 8:45am - 4:00pm +44 (0)28 7012 3210 Derry~Londonderry Admissions Contacts Campus Opening Hours Contact information Derry~Londonderry Room MF221 Ulster University Northland Road Derry~Londonderry Co.
Londonderry BT48 7JL Derry~Londonderry Campus Map Monday - Thursday 8:45am - 5:00pm Friday 8:45am - 4:00pm +44 (0)28 7167 5678
Room BD-03-015 Ulster University 2-24 York Street Belfast Co.
Antrim BT15 1AP
Belfast Campus Map
Monday - Thursday
8:45am - 5:00pm
8:45am - 4:00pm
+44 (0)28 9536 7890
Room L009 Ulster University Cromore Road Coleraine Co.
Londonderry BT52 1SA
Coleraine Campus Map
+44 (0)28 7012 3210
Room MF221 Ulster University Northland Road Derry~Londonderry Co.
Londonderry BT48 7JL
Derry~Londonderry Campus Map
+44 (0)28 7167 5678
Belfast cashier's office contacts Campus Opening Hours Contact information Belfast campus Room BC-02-104 Ulster University 2-24 York Street Belfast Co.
Antrim BT15 1AP Belfast campus map Monday - Thursday 8.45am - 5.00pm Friday 8.45am - 4.00pm 028 7012  4232 Coleraine cashier's office contacts Campus Opening Hours Contact information Coleraine campus Room H126 Ulster University Cromore Road Coleraine Co.
Londonderry BT52 1SA Coleraine campus map Monday - Thursday 10:00am - 1:00pm Departmental Lodgements can be accepted by prior arrangement only.
028 7012 4232 Derry~Londonderry cashier's office contacts Campus Opening Hours Contact information Derry~Londonderry campus Room MD130 Ulster University Northland Road Derry~Londonderry Co.
Londonderry BT48 7JL Derry~Londonderry campus map Monday - Thursday 09:30am - 12:15pm Friday 09:30am - 11:45am 028 7012 4232
Belfast campus
Room BC-02-104 Ulster University 2-24 York Street Belfast Co.
Belfast campus map
8.45am - 5.00pm
8.45am - 4.00pm
028 7012  4232
Room H126 Ulster University Cromore Road Coleraine Co.
Coleraine campus map
10:00am - 1:00pm
Departmental Lodgements can be accepted by prior arrangement only.
028 7012 4232
Derry~Londonderry campus
Room MD130 Ulster University Northland Road Derry~Londonderry Co.
Derry~Londonderry campus map
09:30am - 12:15pm
09:30am - 11:45am
How to contact the Service Desk UniDesk Self Service By calling 028 9536 7776 By email on servicedesk@ulster.ac.uk Live chat You can also Live Chat with a Service Desk team member.
Service Desk Hours Opening Hours Monday - Friday 8am - 8pm Saturday – Sunday 1.30pm – 5pm Extended Closure - Easter and Christmas Holidays View Extended Closure Service Desk Hours
Our team of Employability Advisors offer you the informed, expert, professional advice that will help you progress your employability, be more competitive in your job search and make better decisions for your future career.
Get advice from our employability team
The International Student Experience and Support team provide a dedicated advisory service for international students on non-academic and welfare matters such as immigration and adjusting to life in Northern Ireland.
The team is also the relevant source for information and advice on immigration and visa matters.
Contact the International Student Advisory Service (ISAS)
Details of how to get help in the Library, from the Library Help service, and Library Chat, to contact details.
Contact the library
Student Loans and Bursaries Campus Opening Hours Contact information Belfast Student Services HQ Room BC-02-104 Ulster University 2-24 York Street Belfast BT15 1AP Belfast Campus Map Monday - Thursday 8:45am - 5:00pm Friday 8:45am - 4:00pm Kirsty Boyd K.Boyd1@ulster.ac.uk +44(0) 28 9536 7050
Student Services HQ Room BC-02-104 Ulster University 2-24 York Street Belfast BT15 1AP
Kirsty Boyd
K.Boyd1@ulster.ac.uk
+44(0) 28 9536 7050
Belfast Student Operations contacts Campus Opening Hours Contact information Belfast Room BC-02-104 Ulster University 2-24 York Street Belfast BT15 1AP Belfast Campus Map Monday - Thursday 9am - 5pm Friday 9am – 4pm Tel: +44 (0)28 95365411 Email: studentoperationsbt@ulster.ac.uk
Room BC-02-104 Ulster University 2-24 York Street Belfast BT15 1AP
9am - 5pm
9am – 4pm
Tel: +44 (0)28 95365411
Email: studentoperationsbt@ulster.ac.uk
Coleraine Student Operations contacts Campus Opening Hours Contact information Coleraine Room H228 Ulster University Cromore Road Coleraine BT52 1SA Coleraine Campus Map Monday - Thursday 9am - 5pm Friday 9am - 4pm Tel: +44 (0)28 70123443 Email: studentoperationsce@ulster.ac.uk
Room H228 Ulster University Cromore Road Coleraine BT52 1SA
9am - 4pm
Tel: +44 (0)28 70123443
Email: studentoperationsce@ulster.ac.uk
Derry~Londonderry Student Operations contacts Campus Opening Hours Contact information Derry~Londonderry Room MD130 Ulster University Northland Road Derry~Londonderry BT48 7JL Derry~Londonderry Campus Map Monday - Thursday 9am - 5pm Friday 9am - 4pm Tel: +44 (0)28 7167 5258 Email: studentoperationsdld@ulster.ac.uk
Room MD130 Ulster University Northland Road Derry~Londonderry BT48 7JL
Tel: +44 (0)28 7167 5258
Email: studentoperationsdld@ulster.ac.uk
Tuition Fees Office - Location and Opening Hours Location Opening Hours Contact information Coleraine Room X014 Ulster University Cromore Road Coleraine Co.
Londonderry BT52 1SA Coleraine Campus Map Monday - Thursday 10:00am - 4:00pm Friday 10:00am - 3:30pm Use the Contact Form For Tuition Fee Enquiries, please complete our Tuition Fee Enquiry Form and we will get back to you shortly via email.
Telephone 028 7012 4252
Room X014 Ulster University Cromore Road Coleraine Co.
10:00am - 4:00pm Friday
10:00am - 3:30pm
Use the Contact Form
For Tuition Fee Enquiries, please complete our Tuition Fee Enquiry Form and we will get back to you shortly via email.
Telephone
028 7012 4252

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/student/courses/make-a-complaint:
We are committed to providing a high-quality student experience to all of our students from enrolment to graduation.
While we hope that you are satisfied with the experience that we offer we realise that sometimes there are things that fall short of what you expect, and we would welcome the opportunity to improve.
If something goes wrong or you are dissatisfied with what we are providing, please tell us – you should feel free to raise matters of concern without the risk of disadvantage.
The Student Academic Affairs Team (SAAT) is the team responsible for co-ordinating and managing student complaints in Ulster University.
You must be a current student or recent graduate of the University (you can use the procedure for 6-months following graduation or exiting the University).
Third parties such as parents, friends, spouses, sponsors or employers may not normally raise a concern/complaint on behalf of a student .
If there is a reason (such as disability or mental health) where a family member or friend needs to progress a complaint on behalf of a current student (or within 6-months of that student leaving the University) a third-party consent form must be completed and submitted by the student who is making the complaint, to verify permission is granted, specifying who is able to act on their behalf.
To obtain a third-party consent form, please email studentcomplaints@ulster.ac.uk .
You can complain as an individual student, or we will also accept complaints from groups of students.
The Procedure can be used to complain about any aspect of the academic or other services provided by the University.
Separate procedures exist to cover these categories of complaint- please look at the Complaint Procedure to help with these issues.
You may wish to seek help or advice from Officers of the Students' Union, or staff in Student Wellbeing, the Campus Student Support Office or your Studies Advice or Year Tutor, before making a complaint.
To discuss whether the Complaints Procedure is the most appropriate pathway to use, please contact studentcomplaints@ulster.ac.uk , and a member of the Student Academic Affairs Team (SAAT) will arrange to meet and discuss this with you.
You have the right to be accompanied by a member of the University for support at any stage in the procedure (for example, a student or member of staff).
The procedure comprises three stages.
Should the University not be able to satisfactorily resolve your complaint, you have the right to take the complaint to the Northern Ireland Public Sector Ombudsman (NIPSO), but for NIPSO to take a complaint you must have closed out all stages of the internal University complaints procedure.
Please note that SAAT is the University team that is responsible for co-ordinating and managing student complaint.
However, if you are a student studying with one of Ulster University’s Partners (QAHE, COMD, UCQ etc.), as an affiliate student, then SAAT will work with the relevant Partnership Managers, Quality Managers and the Associate Dean (AQSE) for Partnerships, to investigate and resolve complaints at a local level for students studying with Ulster partners.
As an affiliate student please use the links above to the forms GCF/CS-1 and CS-2 forms above to bring a complaint to Ulster University’s SAAT.
Associate students (those who are registered with a different education provider, but who are studying on an Ulster University accredited HE qualification – e.g., through the Northern Ireland Regional Colleges) will use their own institutions complaints procedure to complete Stage 1 and Stage 2 of the process, and then have the right to bring your complaint to Ulster University, through the SAAT, for a Stage 3 Complaints Panel, if your institution has not been able to satisfactorily resolve your complaint.
For this process, please ask your college/provider for their own complaint procedure and forms, and should you wish to progress a complaint (once the college/providers own process has been closed out) please use the CS-2 form linked above.
Stage 1: allows for informal/early resolution.
Stage 2: enables a more in-depth investigation to take place, where either Stage 1 has been unsuccessful in satisfactorily resolving the complaint, or where the complaint is of a more serious or complex nature, which could not be resolved informally, the complaints procedure may start at the Stage 2 level.
Stage 3: involves the convening of an Ulster University Complaints Panel.
The Student Academic Affairs Team (SAAT) are the team responsible for managing all student complaints and can be contacted via studentcomplaints@ulster.ac.uk complaints or on saat@ulster.ac.uk if you have a general query.
We aim to resolve complaints quickly, and appropriately, as early in the process as possible.
This could mean an on-the-spot apology and explanation if something has clearly gone wrong and immediate action to resolve the problem.
Where possible you should raise your concerns with the relevant staff member/University Team of Service Provider.
This can be done face-to-face, by phone, in writing or by email.
If however you don’t feel able to approach a specific staff member or service directly, you can complete the general complaints form, or email studentcomplaints@ulster.ac.uk to request that SAAT progress your complaint.
If SAAT manages your Stage 1 complaint, then we will give you our decision (findings and outcome/s) at Stage 1 in ten (10) working days, from when the complaint is actioned.
If you are not satisfied with the response, we give at this stage you can take your complaint to Stage 2 of the complaints procedure.
Alternatively, if your complaint is more complex and it is clear that it will not be possible to reach a conclusion within ten (10) working days you may take your complaint immediately to Stage 2 without using Stage 1.
To make a Stage 1 complaint you can email studentcomplaints@ulster.ac.uk , or you can use this general complaints form (GCF) .
Stage 2 deals with two types of complaint
We have a form – the CS-1 Form - which will help you to state your complaint clearly.
If you complete this form and send it, it will automatically go to the Student Academic Affairs Team, who will initiate an investigation and liaise with the faculty/department to provide you with an answer to the issues that you raise.
Please be aware that the complaint form and any supporting documents that you may want to provide will be seen by the person investigating your complaint, and potentially by anyone named in the complaint/relevant staff in the department (s) being complained about.
Staff members who have been asked to investigate a complaint under stage 1, and who feel that it requires more detailed investigation, may also refer the complaint to Stage 2 if they believe this is appropriate.
At Stage 2 we will:
and
If you are still dissatisfied with outcome of the investigation you can ask to have your complaint heard by a student complaints panel.
To request that your Stage 2 complaint progresses to Stage 3 you need to compete and submit the CS-2 Form .
This form will be sent directly to SAAT once you press send.
The panel will aim to meet within twenty (20) working days of receipt of the request for a panel hearing.
If it is likely to take longer than 20 working days we will tell you and agree a revised timeframe with you.
The panel will consist of:
The panel will want to meet with you and the other parties involved in complaint separately.
You will have the right to be accompanied to this meeting by a member of the University (a fellow student, staff member, Student Wellbeing or Students Union Advice Team member).
The panel will have available to it all documentation relating to the complaint.
If you cannot attend the Stage 3 Complaints Panel meeting, you will be offered the opportunity to make a written submission for the panel, which must be submitted to SAAT at least three (3) working days in advance of the date of the panel meeting, so it can be uploaded to the Panel Papers folder.
The conclusions of the panel will be communicated to you in writing, by SAAT, within ten (10) working days of its meeting.
If you have exhausted the internal complaints procedures, and have completed Stage 3 and remain dissatisfied, you can complain to the Northern Ireland Public Sector Ombudsman (NIPSO).
You must make your complaint to NIPSO within 6-months of the final decision from the University.
For further information on the procedure .
If you are unsure if your complaint falls within the scope of this procedure or if you require general advice on the most appropriate way to pursue your complaint, the Student Academic Affairs Team (SAAT) will be pleased to assist.
You can contact them on
studentcomplaints@ulster.ac.uk
or
saat@ulster.ac.uk
+44 (0) 28 7012 3838 (SAAT)
You should note that SAAT can act in an advisory capacity only and will not comment on the validity or likely outcome of your complaint.
The Admissions Complaints Procedure provides advice for applicants who feel that the decision relating to their application was unfair.
Details of this procedure are available from the Academic Registry Offices.
In certain circumstances you may request that the decision relating to academic progress taken by a Board of a Faculty or a Board of examiners be reviewed.
Full details of the review of decisions procedures are available in the Student Handbook.
Full details of the Procedures for the Review of Decisions are contained in the Research Studies Handbook, available from the Research Office.
The Regulations for the degrees of MPhil and PhD require that candidates asking for their case to be reviewed following examination should lodge a request in writing to the Research Office within one month of the approval of the recommendation of the Board of Examiners.
Consult the University's Policy and Procedures on dealing with Bullying and Harassment ( Dignity at Work ), if you consider that you have been subject to harassment on the grounds of:

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/student/wegotthis/blog/your-ultimate-guide-to-results-day-and-getting-ready-for-ulster-university:
Discover everything you need to feel confident, informed, and ready to take your next big step towards life at university.
Results day is fast approaching and student life is just around the corner!
To help you prepare, we’ve pulled together useful information and advice, from what to expect on results day to how to get ready for university life.
We wish all our applicants the best of luck, and we can’t wait to welcome you in September!
While waiting for your results, you may feel nervous, excited, or a bit anxious.
Follow our pre-results tips for advice on how to get prepared and stay calm.
You can also read this guide which explains the options available to you on results day, key dates, and how you can prepare.
Moving to a new country is both exciting and daunting, and we know there’s a lot to plan.
Read our top tips on arriving in Northern Ireland, settling in, and the support services available at the university.
Our international support teams will help guide you through uni life and make sure you have an amazing experience at Ulster.
Students attend university at many different stages and walks of life.
Whether you've decided to make a change to your current career path or take on a new challenge, our tips will help you step back into the world of education and make the most of university life.
Before you get to university and start your new student life, you will need to arrange your accommodation.
Moving away from home can be daunting, especially when you're not sure where to live.
To make things easier, read our guide to help you find the right accommodation to suit your needs.
While waiting for results day, you may be thinking about what to pack for university.
You don't have to spend a fortune on things you think you need for your student accommodation.
Follow our tips and checklist and you’ll be organised in no time!
When coming to university, you’ll need to plan your commute.
Whether using public transport, cycling, walking or driving, there are plenty of convenient and eco-friendly ways to get to Ulster.
Check out Sustainable Travel to Ulster: Public Transport & Smart Tips for Drivers , which includes info on how to get Translink discounts as well as the best spots for parking.
It’s important to organise your finances when applying to university and think about how you’re going to pay for everything when you get here.
Thinking about money can be a bit overwhelming, but our budget blog can help make things easier.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/student/wegotthis/blog/ready-to-move:
Your countdown to university life is on!
Here’s all you need to know about looking for the right student accommodation.
When you start university, you’ll make new friends, immerse yourself in a subject you enjoy, and get the chance to try out new sports and activities.
But before you get to Ulster and start your new uni life, you need to make sure you’ve sorted out your accommodation.
Moving away from home for the first time can be daunting, especially when you're not sure where to live.
To make things easier, our guide will help you find the right accommodation to suit your needs.
You have four options for accommodation while you're at university:
There are loads of benefits to choosing Ulster University student accommodation in Belfast, Coleraine and Derry~Londonderry!
It saves you having to go to multiple viewings for private accommodation, plus it's a great way to make friends with your fellow Ulster students.
Managing your money is also simpler as all utilities including high-speed Wi-Fi are included in the cost.
Our ResLife team make the process of moving into and living in Ulster accommodation enjoyable and as stress free as possible.
Check out the below video where students across our campuses share their experience of calling uni halls their home.
Zara Conley studies Communication Management and Public Relations at our Belfast campus.
Here, Zara shares her experience of choosing to live in halls of residence in her first year and making new friends.
“Starting university can be difficult but I think making sure you have a cosy and comforting safe haven to go home to after class is vital to guarantee your university experience will be all you ever imagined.
I wanted to make sure I chose the right accommodation for me and it’s safe to say I wish I could do it all over again!
"I’m the type of person that can find it hard to be away from home and apart from my family, and I was really nervous about moving into halls of residence, but it was honestly the challenge I needed to get me to where I am today.
"I noticed that my cooking skills took at least a few months to develop.
I’m a picky eater myself but I can cook, I promise!
Well, the basics at least… I was also a pretty shy and quiet person at the start of first year, especially when living with new people, but I got to know them pretty well and grew connections with two of my flatmates and learned to get myself involved even if it meant getting out of my comfort zone.
"The support you receive while living in accommodation at Ulster is fantastic.
When I needed any help or support, the ResLife staff personally took time out of their schedule to accommodate my needs which has helped me get to where I am now.
I can’t thank the accommodation staff members in my building enough for their support and help.
"I have definitely found my confidence levels have risen since living in student accommodation and I have boosted my personality by socialising more, getting myself around the shops my city has to offer, and enjoying my own company also.
I really would recommend the halls of residence for your time at Ulster University, you won’t regret it!”
If you have made Ulster your Firm choice and want to stay in Ulster accommodation, you are eligible to apply now.
There are a number of websites you can visit to search for student accommodation such as NI Student Pad or SpareRoom .
Before you enter into a contract with a private provider, we strongly recommend you research your rights and obligations.
Visit Student Housing Advice to get informed.
Homestay is a type of accommodation where students live with local hosts in their homes, rather than in university halls or private rentals.
Homestay offers flexible, budget-friendly accommodation with a variety of room types and stay lengths to suit your course, lifestyle, or travel needs, whether you are a commuter, part-time or full-time student, PhD researcher, or international student.
It’s a practical alternative to traditional housing, often with convenient add-ons like meals or Wi-Fi, plus the chance to experience local culture firsthand.
For more information and to find a Homestay, visit the Homestay Webpage .
Each of our campuses are served by good public transport links including train services.
If you’re unsure about the best or cheapest way to get from your house to class, check out Translink's journey planner.
If you’re aged 16-23, you can get a FREE yLink smartcard.
This will give you 50% off Translink bus and rail travel and up to 50% off Enterprise for up to 8 years!
To get your smartcard, visit the Translink website .
For those aged 24 years and over, you can get the 24+ Student Railcard for 1/3 off NI Railways tickets.
No matter how you commute, make sure to check out our blog on Sustainable Travel and Smart Tips for Commuters .

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/student/wegotthis/blog/ready-for-a-new-challenge:
Students attend Ulster at many different stages and walks of life.
Whatever your reason for joining us, we can’t wait to meet you!
Whether you've decided to make a change to your current career path or take on a new challenge, our tips will help you step back into the world of education and make the most of student life, whatever stage you're at.
Don’t pressure yourself to have it all sussed from week one.
You’ll soon get into the swing of prioritising tasks and settle in to your routine.
Being organised from the start of each semester will help you with juggling life and university.
Identify the best time and environment for you to study, then plan around this.
The Student Success Centre also runs a Mature Learners Induction .
To helo support your transition into University life.
You can also download the Study Skills Toolkit to  support you in your academic journey.
You may have a number of commitments as well as your studies such your family, a job, or pets!
Make sure you keep a balance and allow time for you to keep being you.
Check out our blog on Time Management to help get you started.
Don’t hold back from societies or events.
We have societies and social activities for all interests, from dance, music, sport, and politics to animation, film, horticulture and gaming.
Age is just a number, and at university, no one cares how old you are.
You might just find what you’re looking for in one of the many societies available to join across our campuses.
Check out the full range of societies and connect with your Ulster University community.
We also have a mature student society in Coleraine (with others hoping to start), which organises events such quiz nights, live music, and coffee cathcups.
Ulster University has a wide range of resources for those looking for advice and support.
Connect with your lecturers, subject librarians and fellow students, or check out the support channels at Ulster University through:
Stefanie took the leap back to education.
Here's her story.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/student/wegotthis/search:
Discover campus life, societies, student success, news, study skills, personal stories, wellbeing, finances, careers, and university.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/student/events/all-student-events:
Search all events by topic, date and campus.
We're sorry, the collapsed-by-day form does not exist, please try a different form (e.g.
form=simple)

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/departments/vc-office:
The Vice-Chancellor is supported by a Director of the Vice-Chancellor’s Office and Project Officer, who support high-level stakeholder engagement, deliver key strategic oversight and intervention and develop high level policy on behalf of the Vice-Chancellor.
The executive support team is responsible for the management of the Vice-Chancellor's diary and coordination of high profile visits and events.
Vice-Chancellor's Office
H204

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/departments/dvc:
The Deputy Vice-Chancellor provides strategic and academic governance.
The Deputy Vice-Chancellor provides strategic and academic governance across the University and deputises for the Vice Chancellor.
He has direct line management and leadership responsibility for Executive Deans, overseeing business performance and sustainability of the University's faculties and leads on academic planning.
He also has direct line management responsibility for providing leadership in civic and societal partnership, development through the Directors of Regional and Community Engagement and the Northern Ireland Confucius Institute at Ulster University.
The Deputy Vice-Chancellor is supported by an executive support team who is responsible for diary management and coordination of high profile visits and events.
The Deputy Vice-Chancellor's Office
BD-06-004
The Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences offers first class teaching in our world class facilities across our four campuses.
The Faculty of Computing, Engineering and the Built Environment consists of four Schools, offering industry-informed, professionally recognised courses at both undergraduate and postgraduate level.
As a leading provider of health-related education, with almost 6,500 students and approximately 250 academic staff, we offer an extensive portfolio of accredited degree and research programmes covering seven exciting yet diverse disciplines.
Ulster University Business School is the 6th largest business school in the UK and delivers over £40m of GVA to the NI economy annually.
The University’s Global Engagement Office is responsible for overseeing all aspects of International student’s life at Ulster as well as the experience of Ulster students who partake in placements across the world.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/departments/dvc/academic-business-development:
View staff within the Apprenticeship, Skills & FlexEd.
View staff within the Apprenticeship & Skills Hub.
Find out about Widening Access and Participation at Ulster University.
Find out about Global Online Education Development at Ulster University.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/departments/dvc/ahss:
The Dean’s Office is responsible for the development and delivery of the Faculty's teaching & learning, research, civic and internationalisation objectives.
It is responsible for the day-to-day management of the Faculty’s financial, human, administrative and physical resources that support delivery of an exceptional student experience at Ulster University.
Dean's Office (Arts, Hum & Social Sc)
BC-07-227
MQ125
BC-07-216
BC-07-237
BC-07-238
Faculty of Arts, Humanities & Social Scs
I139
I129
14G09
BA-04-010
MQ122A
MD135
BC-07-310
BC-07-102
BD-05-007
BC-07-236
BC-07-238A
BA-01-012C
L127
BC-07-234
Creative and inspiring, the Belfast School of Art is a world leading art school that makes a significant contribution to contemporary art and design both at home and abroad.
The School of Applied Social and Policy Sciences is a multi-disciplinary department covering a wide range of academic subjects including everything from Health & Social Care Policy and Politics, to Social Work and Criminology.
The School of Arts and Humanities at Ulster offers diverse study in the fields of Cinematic Arts, Creative Technologies, Drama, Music, Irish, English, and History.
The School of Communication and Media offers a vibrant and inspirational environment for students to develop their communication and media skills for interpersonal and professional contexts.
Through our teaching the School of Education empowers and inspires its students to reach their full potential in all areas of education.
The School of Law at Ulster University offers a broad range of courses at undergraduate and postgraduate level, which are taught on the Belfast and Derry/Londonderry campuses.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/departments/dvc/cebe:
Dean's Office (Comp, Eng & Be)
BC-05-111
BC-05-114
Faculty Operations Office
BA-02-005
BC-05-120
BC-05-119
BC-05-118
MG040
MS020
BC-05-115
The Belfast School of Architecture and the Built Environment aims to provide students with a supportive environment for their studies enabling them to fulfill their full potential within the dynamic built environment sector.
The School of Computing which is based at the Jordanstown campus aims to provide students with a supportive environment for their studies, thus providing them with the opportunity to achieve their full potential.
Here at the School of Computing, Engineering and Intelligent Systems we provide students with industrially relevant degrees that help them get ahead in their careers.
The School of Engineering at Ulster University specialises in a broad multi-disciplinary approach to Engineering in order to solve industrial problems.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/departments/dvc/lhs:
Dean's Office (Life & Health Scs)
W2089
MG242
BC-04-114
W0089
H148
W0045
H160A
G0103A
H153
H214
H159
BD-04-043
H150B
G239
H064B
H149B
H157
H152
G214
The School of Biomedical Sciences has a national and international reputation for excellence in teaching and research and offers a range of healthcare, scientific and technical professions undergraduate and postgraduate programmes.
With professionally qualified staff and state of the art facilities the School of Health Sciences is the best place to study.
We have a close working relationship with professional bodies and rewarding placements that put you ahead of the rest.
With our innovative teaching and vibrant research culture, Ulster University is the best place to study nursing.
We have delivered nursing programmes for over 30 years, and our courses provide excellence in teaching and research with innovative approaches to learning.
At the School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Science, we marry modern and innovative teaching with state of the art facilities, helping you to work as a pharmacist in today's changing health service.
For the third year running, we have been ranked as the top UK University for studying Pharmacy.
At the School of Psychology we offer flexible and interesting courses, we work in partnership with our students to ensure that our courses benefit our students to the fullest.
The School of Medicine at Magee will build on Ulster University's excellent reputation in Health Sciences.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/departments/dvc/uubs:
Dean's Office (Ubs)
BC-09-205A
BC-08-302B
BC-08-302
BC-08-205A
BA-02-036
BC-10-207A
BC-09-205B
ML113
BC-09-219
BC-08-205C
BC-08-102
BC-09-216
BC-10-212
The Business Engagement Unit offers an extensive suite of programmes that are designed and delivered to help shape your future, your team's future and your organisation's future.
We aim to provide our students with the knowledge, commercial awareness and confidence to succeed in a changing and global employment market, by providing strong professional practice focus, whilst also ensuring active engagement in applied research.
The Department of Global Business and Enterprise is part of Ulster University Business School - working with Northern Ireland businesses for over 40 years.
We offer a range of programmes which all incorporate key management modules alongside specialist modules, therefore providing the breadth of knowledge and skills required by the fast paced and exciting hospitality, tourism and events industry.
We are proud of the contribution we make towards educating the managers and leaders of tomorrow and of our links with business, in supporting enterprise and innovation.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/departments/dvc/global-engagement:
The Office is also responsible for the developing the range of international partnerships at Ulster.
Global engagement works across Faculties and Departments to embed a global approach and outlook in all aspects of student and staff life at Ulster.
Global Operations and Intelligence Unit
BD-05-017
The English for Academic Studies Centre (EASC) supports students and researchers who wish to enhance their language skills at university.
The Global Mobility and International Student Experience team have a two-fold purpose; firstly to support international students coming to Ulster from application stage through to graduation and secondly supporting Ulster students who wish to complete a period of study abroad.
The Global Operations and Intelligence Unit provides reporting, technical knowledge and business support functions for the Global Engagement team.
The Global Partnership and programmes team focuses on establishing, maintaining and developing our international partnerships.
The Global Recruitment and Engagement team work to promote Ulster programmes across the world and to recruit high quality students to these programmes.
The Global Compliance team at Ulster University.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/departments/dvc/marketing-and-communications:
The Marketing & Communications team delivers a comprehensive programme that supports every department across Ulster and the University as a whole to achieve the aims outlined in our strategy ‘Delivering Sustainable Futures’.
We provide a full spectrum of services including market research, strategy and proposition development, campaign planning, multi media design, media relations, social media management, internal communications.
I am incredibly proud of the talented and capable team we’ve created at M&C.
We are a diverse group of personalities, talents, thinking styles, experiences and ambitions.
What we have in common is a shared commitment to the success of Ulster University and we work relentlessly to tell the inspiring stories of this complex and extraordinary institution and to extend our reach, influence and impact on the world.
The Special Projects Team within the University's Marketing and Communications department drives innovative initiatives, elevating the institution's image through strategic campaigns, fostering engagement, and advancing its mission with creativity.
The Strategic Marketing team develops organisational and faculty-specific strategic marketing plans in support of Ulster University’s overall objectives.
The Creative Services team develop and deliver integrated campaigns to support the full range of goals within the University’s Corporate Strategy and lead on brand strategy, campaign planning, web development and digital communications development for the University.
The team delivers public relations and media management to protect and enhance the University’s reputation.
The Market Engagement team is responsible for all aspects of direct engagement with prospective students at both Undergraduate and Postgraduate levels.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/departments/people:
Office of the Chief People Officer
BD-05-046
Student Administration is committed to providing a professional service in order to provide the best end-to-end experience for applicants and students from initial application enquiry through to graduation.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/departments/people/office-of-university-secretary:
Responsible for ensuring that the University complies with its statutory obligations and provides interpretation and legal advice to Council and the Senior Leadership Team.
Get more information on our Chancellor
Office of the University Secretary
L141
L143
L134
People within Governance and Strategic Policy.
People within Legal Services.
People within Council/Committee Services.
People within Data Protection & Information Compliance.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/departments/people/employee-experience:
The purpose of this division of the People and Culture Directorate is:
Employee Experience
BD-05-025
This Section ensures compliance and regulatory requirements are achieved, takes the lead on the delivery of our EDI strategy, and ensures that EDI is part of Ulster University’s foundation and ethos.
This section focuses on both health and safety in the traditional sense and on the promotion of health - not just physical health, but mental, social and emotional wellbeing.
This Section works with colleagues across the University to design programmes of work to better enable the institution and its people to achieve the right culture, behaviours, skills and engagement, providing insight and direction around the effective management of people-related change.
This Section develops and oversees the People Development strategy and approaches which will provide the framework to develop and support our staff to achieve their career ambitions and the strategic goals of the University.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/departments/people/partnerships-and-services:
Partnerships & Services
J903
L224

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/departments/people/student-administration:
We operate an integrated service in order to achieve this by working in close collaboration with other Professional Services Departments and Faculties.
We strive to provide a consistently high quality experience for our applicants, students, and staff.
The Admissions team at Ulster University has a presence on each campus and is responsible for delivering a fair admissions service that seeks to provide the best admissions experience to our applicants, academic colleagues and other stakeholders.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/departments/academic-quality-and-student-experience:
Staff and departments within PVC Academic Quality & Student Experience.
Pvc Academic Quality & Student Exp.
H203
Working with staff from across the institution to continuously enhance student outcomes and the wider student experience.
The team will assist you with ebooks as well as guide you on library opening times.
Student & Graduate Success staff.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/departments/academic-quality-and-student-experience/student-and-graduate-success/employability:
Employability & Graduate Futures
BD-03-027
Supporting student employability through employer engagement, work based learning and bespoke placement programmes.
Delivering expert coaching and skills development activities to prepare students for the future of work and career transitions.
Working in collaboration with Faculties to design and deliver tailored solutions for student and graduate employability.
Leading the Ulster EDGE Award, digital systems and strategic projects that underpin student and graduate employability.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/departments/academic-quality-and-student-experience/learning-enhancement:
Leads on supporting innovative curriculum design and delivery, course approval, regulations and revalidation.
Supports staff and course teams in relation to quality matters and standards.
Supports, develops and recognises colleagues who teach and support learning.
The centre is responsible for the promotion, development and support of digital learning within the University.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/departments/academic-quality-and-student-experience/library:
Academic Engagement
Digital Content and Research Services
BC-01-303
User Engagement
BC-01-301
H308
BC-01-301A
BB-02-LD014
BC-01-302
BC-01-207
MM036
MM118
MM038
H307
MM037
H317
Library Service
MM035
H313
H304
MM023
BC-01-310
H305
BC-01-201
H303
BC-01-304

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/departments/academic-quality-and-student-experience/student-and-graduate-success/student-wellbeing:
Delivering services to support students health and wellbeing including mental health advice and counselling, support and funding for disability and medical conditions, and advice on money matters
Student Wellbeing Team
E047
BD-02-002
BD-02-002A
MG108G
BC-02-101
E023
BD-02-021
BD-02-029
BA-02-035
BD-02-014A
BD-02-014
MG108E
BD-02-018
E049

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/departments/research/research-development:
Research Development

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/departments/research/research-governance:
Research Governance

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/departments/research/research-management:
Research Management
L241
L238
L243
X009
L237
L242

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/departments/research/research-performance:
Research Performance
L244
L235
BA-02-018

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/departments/provost:
Find out about the PVC Academic Operations & Portfolio Development at Ulster University.
University Provost
BD-05-041
Senior Leadership Hub
BD-05-039
The University’s Development and Alumni Relations Office is responsible for building and maintaining relationships with our graduates and friends.
The Campus Life team delivers high-quality professional services that create vibrant campus communities and positive student, staff and visitor experiences.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/departments/provost/daro:
Our alumni and friends help current students to succeed through the provision of mentoring, placement opportunities, and opportunities for employment upon graduation.
They also help current students through philanthropic support.
Development & Alumni Relations
MI020
The Alumni Relations team is responsible for building and maintaining mutually beneficial relationships with Ulster University’s alumni.
The Development Services team manages the department’s alumni database and income processing systems in support of fundraising and alumni relations activities.
The Fundraising Team is responsible for raising philanthropic support and managing the fundraising activity for Ulster University.
The Corporate Engagement team is responsible for building and maintaining mutually-beneficial relationships between the University and corporate partners.
View members of the Arts and Culture Team.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/departments/provost/confucius-institute:
Confucius Institute
BA-03-014
BA-02-039
BA-03-012
BA-03-011
BA-03-015

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/departments/provost/economic-policy-centre:
The Centre engages with organisations that have an interest in enhancing the Northern Ireland economy and its work is relevant to Government, business and the wider general public.
Ulster University Economic Policy Centre
BA-02-031
BA-02-030

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/departments/provost/campus-life:
It brings together Student Wellbeing, Sports, Residences, Catering, Conferencing and Commercial services.
Campus Life
MC224
MN013
Managing campus catering and hospitality services, retail spaces, conferences and events.
Operating the campus sports centres and sporting facilities, student sports services, engagement and partnership with governing sports bodies, sports events and civic engagement.
Providing quality purpose-built student accommodation and living support for students on and off campus.
Providing theatre, arts, cultural and civic events and activities for students, staff and visitors to the Coleraine campus.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/departments/provost/strategic-policy-unit:
The Strategic Policy Unit undertakes strategic policy analysis and engages with key stakeholders to inform policy and drive outcomes.
The Strategic Policy Unit
BA-02-033

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/departments/provost/regional-and-community-engagement:
Regional & Community Engagement
MI019
BA-04-002
H234

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/departments/strategy-and-finance:
Find out about Office of the Chief Strategy and Finance Officer
Office of the Chief Fin.
& Str.
Officer
The Finance Department is responsible for providing financial advice and support to faculties and departments, managing the University’s income and expenditure, ensuring that we get value for money in all our financial activities and that we comply with statutory and regulatory body requirements and financial best practice.
Digital and Information Services is a significant University professional services department with responsibilities for library, reprographics, digital and information services.
Led by Michael Fitzpatrick to develop, maintain and operate the university estate to provide a world-class physical environment to inspire students and staff alike in their academic endeavours.
Supporting the development, implementation and delivery of the University's aims and ambitions expressed in our Strategic Plan.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/departments/strategy-and-finance/finance:
Finance Directorate
X006
X005
X008

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/departments/strategy-and-finance/ds:
Digital Services Directorate
X007
BA-02-041
The Applications division provides the support and development of applications supporting key business functions.
ICTCS provides a range of support and development services to staff and students.
The Infrastructure division provides key infrastructure services to the University.
The division understands and transforms issues, problems and requirements into a viable portfolio of programmes and projects.
Corporate photocopying and printing service.
Information on Digital Programme and Innovation Office at Ulster University.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/departments/strategy-and-finance/estates-services:
The Directors Office staff are listed below in the "Our People" section.
BC-01-418
ME006
Led by Mairead Martin, Administration is responsible for providing administrative support for the operations of Estates Services and for the customer-focussed operation of the Estates Services helpdesk.
Led by Declan McHugh, Asset Management sets out the standards and long term plans for the development, management and replacement of estate assets including buildings and engineering systems.
Led by Peter McParland, Estate Improvement works with customers to understand requirements and carry out improvement works and also carries out general refurbishment works to maintain the estate in a safe and functionally suitable condition in line with customer expectations.
Led by Trevor Glenn (Greater Belfast) and Derek Bell (Coleraine/Derry~Londonderry), Estate Customer Services is responsible for the day-to-day operation of the estate to ensure a safe and comfortable environment that encompasses customer facing services including the operation of the campus receptions, maintenance of all buildings and grounds, security, portering, mail, cleaning and car park operations.
Led by Phillip Wright, Planning and Development is responsible for the development of the estate including the establishment of space requirements, the acquisition and disposal of lands and the development of new buildings and major refurbishments as well as managing the allocation of space across the estate.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/departments/strategy-and-finance/business-intelligence:
Business Intelligence & Strategic Planning and Performance (BISPP) supports the development, implementation and delivery of the University's aims and ambitions expressed in our Strategic Plan - People, Place and Partnership: Delivering Sustainable Futures for All , through the provision of sectoral policy analysis and insight, business intelligence, support for planning and change projects, governance and reporting.
Bi & Strategic Planning & Performance
G231B
G231
G233B
G229B
G228
G230A
G232A
G233A

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/departments/strategy-and-finance/risk-resilience:
Risk and Resilience
X017
X018
X019

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/ds/staff:
The facilities and services supported by Digital Services for Ulster staff, associates and visitors.
New staff should read the Getting Started Guide first.
We are here to support both academic (teaching & learning) and corporate (promotional, administrative) activities, so whatever you need, just contact our staff or the Service Desk and we will be happy to assist.
We are also keen to ensure we deliver the best service we possibly can, so please help us to continue to maintain our high standards of service by passing on any comments or suggestions for improvements.
New Ulster staff?
Set up email, passwords, MFA, and access IT services like the Staff Portal, OneDrive, and Blackboard.
Set up and access your Ulster staff email via Office 365 on desktop, web or mobile including setup guides, usage policies, and support info.
Manage your Ulster staff password securely with self-service reset, good practice tips, and access to Dashlane password manager.
A personalised application providing users with easy access to many of the online services provided by the University.
Get setup help, device configuration tips, and support for access on campus and beyond.
Microsoft 365 offering powerful tools for productivity, collaboration, communication, and secure cloud-based work.
Ulster apps are available via the Company Portal on corporate devices.
Extra tools may be offered depending on licensing.
Information on Business applications available including CMS, E5, HR and Payroll and Cognos Reporting.
Guidance for staff on using Office 365, Teams, and OneDrive from home, and SRAS for accessing internal systems.
Information about technology provided to Ulster staff.
Staff can access training resources and guides to build digital skills, with support from Digital Services.
Learn how staff can protect digital information using policies, secure tools, and best practices outlined in the Staff Information Handbook

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/ds/students:
The facilities and services provided by Digital Services to students for their studies.
New students should read the Getting Started Guide first.
Overview of Digital Services for students, with guides to access systems, IT induction, and  support via the Getting Started IT Guide.
Includes guidance on how to retrieve your initial password or change your password.
Accessing 1600+ student PCs across Ulster campuses in labs, libraries, and teaching rooms, including software provided.
Learn to use Blackboard Learn Ultra to access course content, submit assignments, and get support for your virtual learning.
Technology recommendations and minimum laptop specs to access systems and support blended learning throughout your studies.
Get free or discounted software to support your learning e.g.
Microsoft 365, SPSS, NVivo, with download guides and student licensing info.
Accessing Ulster software and files securely from home on most devices, with setup guides and support available.
Student Hubs, also known as social learning environments, are available across campuses and are popular with staff and students.
Guidance for students leaving Ulster including access duration, data backup and steps to prepare for IT account closure.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/ds/getting-help:
First point of contact for staff and students seeking support and guidance for IT related services.
Staff and Students can log calls to the Service Desk via the self-service portal and access the Self-Help Knowledge Base.
Details of outages and scheduled maintenance on services.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/ds/services:
Discover the wide range of digital services at Ulster University, including IT support, document management, learning tools, and online systems that help staff and students work, study, and collaborate more effectively.
Click on any heading to access the services in these categories.
You can also use our A to Z index of services .
Staff, student, postgraduate and visitor access to accounts and file share service.
Cybersecurity services provided at Ulster University.
Information on server hosting, and data backup and restore services.
Information about the range of training services offered for staff and students.
How Ulster University staff can request access to file shares, and how both staff and students can  securely store and manage files, collaborate and share documents through SharePoint.
Ulster University’s Email and Calendaring service helps staff and students manage communication and schedules with ease.
This page provides information on email aliases, shared mailboxes, email security tips, and global mailing list guidance.
Information on how staff and students can access IT equipment, software, and support, including help with buying computers, using licensed software, and connecting personal laptops to Wi-Fi.
Information about Video Conferencing, Teaching Technologies, AV Support, AV guides and Event Support at Ulster University.
Information on network services provided at Ulster including Network Points, Firewall, Fixed IP addresses, Network At Risk and Remote Access.
Digital Services offers a central print, copy and scan service across the University.
Information about desktop support, Apple device, encrypted laptop and Staff Supported Environment services at Ulster.
Digital tools and support available to help students with their studies, including email, IT facilities, enrolment support, and access to learning spaces.
Ulster University’s Unified Communications service brings together tools like phone, email, chat, and video calls to help staff communicate easily and stay connected.
How to access key online tools like the Portal and Central Authentication Service (CAS), helping staff and students connect securely to digital resources.
Get more information on WiFi services at Ulster University.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/ds/about:
The department comprises a directorate, five major divisions, reprographic and archival services and an administration & finance team.
Digital Services directorate provides technical, digital, information and application strategies to underpin the operational running of the University, whilst enabling transformation and growth.
A refreshed Ulster University Digital Strategic vision and plan for 2020 to 2023
Digital Services policies, standards and guidelines for the secure and reliable delivery of services across the University.
Digital Services are committed to monitoring our performance and continually improving our services to ensure we can meet the needs of our customers.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/ds/students/getting-started:
Digital Services have created a Getting Started IT Guide to guide new students through the process of accessing their account for the first time and connecting to essential services.
The IT Guide is complemented by a video overview of our services and systems.
We strongly recommend all new students take time to review both resources.
In addition, we provide on-campus IT Support Zones at the start of term where you can get help to get connected quickly.
Everything you need to know to get you up and running quickly with your IT account is included in our guide below.
The steps have been arranged in a particular order to walk you through all aspects that are essential to get you connected and online quickly.
All students will require our services throughout their time at the University and in order to make full use of these you must make sure that you:
To help you get started using our services, listed below are some of the main things you will need to become familiar with:
If you have a problem, help is available.
Please contact the Blackboard support team for assistance with functionality and content issues in the following systems or visit their blackboard wiki pages for guidance.
Email: blackboardhelpdesk@ulster.ac.uk Telephone: 028 9536 7188 Please note, the blackboard support Team core hours are:
Mon-Thurs 9am-5pm Fri 9am-4pm
Refer to the Library Help System .
If this does not resolve your query, contact your Library Issue Desk/Information Point or your Subject Librarian .
The Information Point in your Library can also assist with basic IT queries.
Information on print, copy or scan documents is available at Print Service
If you have queries please Email printpayment@ulster.ac.uk.
Student timetables are available through 'Publish'.
Please see the link below for guides and FAQs on how to use Publish.
If you have queries please Email timetabling@ulster.ac.uk
SEAtS Student attendance information is available here
If you have any queries please Email attendance@ulster.ac.uk
The Student Charter sets out the standards of service which the University aims to provide to students through the relevant parts of Digital Services.
The Charter covers:
This page will guide you through the process of accessing your student IT account information and logging in to your account.
It will also introduce you to the student portal and some of the systems/services you will use during your course.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/ds/students/email:
When you register with the University, you will be issued with an email account on Microsoft's Office 365 environment.
If you are unsure, please refer to your Student Banner record for your email address and/or initial network password (as used for the Portal).
You can access your email by clicking on the 'Mail' tile in the portal.
You can also log in directly using your University email address and network password.
Advice on using Office 365 via the web browser is available.
Full Office 365 suite Training and Tutorial information is also available.
PhD students are not permitted to auto-forward.
Please confirm this policy with the Doctoral college if required.
Please note: you must know your Office 365 email address and Network Password (same as used for Portal and Student Workstations).
Most modern email clients such as Outlook 2016 will “ auto-discover ” your mailbox as long as you enter your correct account credentials when attempting to log in for the first time.
You should use your email address and the network password.
Further details on how to add your email account to Outlook are shown in this link: Microsoft Instructions - Add an email account to Outlook
Modern iOS and Android devices will “auto-discover” your mailbox if you use the Outlook app (free download from app stores) and you enter your correct account credentials when attempting to log in for the first time.
Detailed instructions provided directly from Microsoft on how to configure your Office 365 account via a wide range of supported mobile phone and tablets (including other operating systems such as Blackberry) can be found from this link: Microsoft Instructions – setup email on a mobile device
The generic server name for Office 365 connection is outlook.office365.com
While staff are not permitted by policy to automatically redirect emails from their Ulster account to a personally owned email account, because of Information Assurance issues, there is no restriction on Students (with exception of PHD student accounts - see information below) doing so.
University policy is that all office communications are sent to your Office 365 mailbox, so you should monitor it regularly.
If you would rather not directly log into the Office 365 mailbox regularly, then instructions are provided below for auto-forwarding your email to an alternative address you may monitor more often (with exception of PHD student accounts - see information below).
Please note that PHD students are not permitted to auto-forward email.
Please confirm this policy with the Doctoral College, if required.
Since you are required to check your Office 365 account frequently for communications from the University, this functionality may assist you to do this.
If you wish to turn off or change auto-forwarding rule, follow again the steps above to reach the relevant settings.
Staff regularly receive an email with a subject line of ‘Spam Notification’ containing a digest of emails which have been quarantined.
An example of this email is shown below:
Staff have the option to select ‘Release to Inbox’ – this will release the individual message to their Outlook Inbox.
There is also an option to ‘Report as Not Junk’.
It is crucial to note that ‘Report as Not Junk’ may not mean that future messages from this sender are not trapped by Quarantine.
This flags the issue to Microsoft, who assign a ‘spam score’ to the email.
This ‘spam score’ is influenced by criteria such as the email content and the volume of emails sent by the sender.
The number of individual users who select ‘Report as Not Junk’ can positively affect this ‘spam score’ but this may not necessarily be of sufficient volume to directly influence future email delivery.
If the email sender subsequently attains a ‘spam score’ which allows their emails to be ‘whitelisted’, they will bypass Microsoft’s Quarantine and their emails will be delivered directly to all intended recipient’s mailboxes as normal.
Please note that Digital Services has no direct control over this process.
Since it is not good email security practice for Microsoft to publicise the rules which control their ‘spam scoring’, Digital Services will not always be able to establish the reason why specific emails are quarantined since this information is not public knowledge.
How to see your quarantine folder directly in ‘real time’
If staff wish to see their quarantine folder in real time, as they may suspect an expected email may be quarantined ahead of the next scheduled email summary, this can be done via logging in to microsoft .
This is authenticated via your University staff email address (e.g.
initial.surname@ulster.ac.uk) and the password used also for email and Portal.
Digital Services is aware of an issue which may cause some Outlook users within the University to have email messages delivered to their Junk Mail folder rather than their Inbox.
This is due to their individual copy of Outlook mistakenly identifying that message as 'spam'.
This is an Outlook Client specific issue, and as such, Digital Services cannot resolve this centrally - so users experiencing this issue will need to resolve this individually, as follows :
If further advice or guidance is required, please Contact the Digital Services IT Service Desk .
While the University takes proactive steps to protect the email accounts of staff and students, it is also imperative that you assist by being aware of security risks to your email account while online.
A compromised email account not only disrupts your own email access and personal security, but may have wider consequences for the University - such as blacklisting of our email servers causing email bouncebacks affecting other users and possible corporate data compromise.
All Staff and Students are reminded they must abide by the University Acceptable Use Code of Practice (PDF format) with respect to taking adequate safety precautions when using University email accounts.
The vast majority of spam emails (Wikipedia link) are discarded by the University spam filters before they reach user mailboxes, but it is inevitable that a small percentage of rogue emails may be able to reach the user mailbox.
It is virtually impossible to prevent this, since setting spam filtering rules too strictly may result in legitimate emails being rejected as 'false positives', and spammers are always seeking ways to bypass automated spam filtering systems.
In some cases, local spam rules on user mailboxes will also mark emails as spam - such as the Junk Mail folder in Outlook client (staff) and Office 365 (student) - for more information on how to block/allow emails see the Online Help within Outlook and Office 365.
It is crucial to understand that just because an email has reached your inbox this does not guarantee it is legitimate, so you should still be wary of all unsolicited emails - particularly those requesting personal or account related details.
Spamming takes many forms, from dubious bulk advertising (known as malvertising) to phishing - where the spammer is trying to trick you into providing personal details by pretending to be a legitimate company or person you may know.
Attempting to directly phish financial or personal details to commit fraud or identity theft may be the most obvious reason - but why do the spammers want your University email account details?
A compromised account may provide your personal information indirectly via the emails in your mailbox - it's important to note that the spammer will be able to access everything in your mailbox.
University email systems also tend to be 'trusted' and therefore it makes our email accounts very attractive to spammers when continuing their ongoing spamming activities.
The University has taken steps which assist in proactively identifying email accounts which may have been compromised, however it is important to note that ultimate responsibility for keeping their mailbox secure remains with each staff member or student.
Some phishing emails are more obvious than others and some spammers go to great lengths to 'spoof' their intended recipients.
Just because it looks legitimate doesn't always mean it is - web addresses and email links can be 'spoofed' and corporate images (such as bank logos, etc.) can be misused.
Remember: if in doubt, check!
Online banking is an obvious common target of phishers, and many people are now extremely wary of providing financial account details to non-solicited emails, but spammers have diversified into other areas such as:
Access to this information may provide the spammer with the indirect route to other personal or financial information.
Clicking on attachments and web links within suspect emails also increases the risk of malware and spyware infection of your computer or smart device.
View an example of phishing emails received by the University recently (PDF format)
If you receive an unsolicited email from an organisation you do have links with, which includes web links, go to their official website by typing the link into your internet browser or use your browser bookmark/favourite.
Do not click on any link in an unsolicited email.
If in any doubt, use the contact details on their site to query the email.
Tip: hovering over a hyperlink with your mouse (not clicking on it!) can preview the real web address the link is directing to.
In many phishing instances this will clearly show a dubious link unrelated to the real site it is purporting to be - this is one way to spot a potential phish.
Do not 'unsubscribe' from unsolicited email lists, this is likely only to increase the volume of spam you receive, as you will mark your email account as 'live' to the spammer.
Mark the email message as junk or just delete it.
Do not register your University address on numerous external websites, forums or email distribution lists - except those for University related purposes.
The more 'footprint' your email address has on the internet, the more likely it is that you will receive spam.
Instead, it is better to register and use a web based email account for personal internet use.
When accessing University systems via personally owned devices, use an up-to-date web browser.
Anti-phishing technology is now common in recent versions of standard web browsers such as Firefox, Chrome and Edge.
University staff and student workstations currently use Edge as the supported default browser.
Google Chrome is also installed.
If you are unsure about the authenticity of an email in your University mailbox, forward it to the Digital Services IT Service Desk at servicedesk@ulster.ac.uk for advice.
In the event you suspect your University email account may have been compromised (possibly by you having mistakenly supplied details to an unsolicited email or via your mailbox demonstrating other signs as outlined below), then it is vital that you inform the Service Desk on 028 9536 7776 as soon as possible.
If the incident occurs during core working hours of Mon-Thurs 09:00-17:00 and Friday 09:00-16:30, the Service Desk will assist you in changing your password immediately and will then open the investigation to establish if any actual compromise has occurred.
Outside core working hours, please attempt to change your password immediately using the Staff Password Manager and then inform the Service Desk via telephone at the earliest opportunity of the suspected compromise.
The new password must be completely unrelated to the possibly compromised password; hence it should not be guessable to the spammer if they re-try to gain access.
Please do not use email to report a suspected compromise.
It is important to note that the early reporting of a possible compromise may assist in reducing the impact significantly.
Some spammers may not actively misuse your account immediately, so if the password has been changed at the earliest possible time, this may block any active misuse of the account.
Signs your account may have been compromised include:
If you also think you may have compromised personal details related to a non-University IT Account, then contact the relevant company or organisation for assistance.
For example, if your mailbox contains details of any online bank accounts, then you should assume that a spammer with control of your mailbox could have accessed that information at any time.
The following links are external to the University but provide useful additional information on this subject.
This section includes links to external websites in order to provide additional information.
We are not responsible for the content or availability of any external website and the inclusion of such websites does not constitute a recommendation or endorsement of an organisation or its website by Ulster University.
When attempting login to the student network and you are notified that your student account has become disabled, it is due to various internal situations such as:
Tuition fees, accommodation fees and examination resit fees must be paid by the due date, otherwise you risk having access to various IT and Library services disabled.
Students with unpaid tuition fees will be notified by email that their access to University IT and Library services is at risk.
As per normal University practice, this email will be sent to the registered University email account - therefore, students are reminded that this account should be accessed regularly.
Students with unpaid accommodation fees will be notified by email, via the email address registered on the Residential Services e-application system.
Students with unpaid examination resit fees should refer to their green Communication of Results form sent from their Course Director
Core University IT systems such as student computer workstations and the Portal will also issue reminder prompts.
Students should resolve outstanding fee issues during this notification period, otherwise their account will be disabled.
Accounts that have been disabled can be promptly re-activated, once the outstanding fees issue has been resolved.
Contact Fees Office
Contact your campus Examinations Office
Jordanstown and Belfast
Pay online
Or alternatively, you can pay online
Students considered to be a 'Leaver' will also have their network account disabled at certain times during the academic year, as follows:
You may not have successfully completed online enrolment or you have been coded as an Early Leaver or have had your enrolment suspended for any reason.
If you return on the same or a different course, your account will be automatically re-activated.
Contact your campus Registry Office
Contact your Course Director.
Accounts will be disabled 5 weeks following application of an unsuccessful code.
You have successfully completed your course
If you cannot get logged into the student network (or any service using the same login details) and you believe that none of the above reasons apply, please contact either the relevant campus Information Point or the Service Desk

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/ds/students/microsoft-365:
Microsoft Teams is a secure Office 365 collaboration tool that helps teams stay organised and connected.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/ds/students/passwords:
To login to the University Portal and student workstations in libraries and Digital Services supported IT labs, you will need a username and password.
Your Ulster University Office 365 email address
Note:  Once logged on some specific systems, such as Student Results system may require your Student ID to be entered e.g.
B00123456.
Your network password
New students can retrieve their initial network password using the Banner system.
Self Service Password Reset (SSPR) enables Students to securely change their University network password 24/7 without the need to contact the Digital Services IT Service Desk.
Dedicated PCs, known as Password Kiosks, are located within the Library on each campus.
Password Kiosks will allow you to:
When changing your password, choose a password with a minimum of 12 characters: that includes 3 out of the four categories below.
If you are unable to retrieve your details from Banner, reset your password or have difficulty updating your MFA authentication methods, please contact the Digital Services IT Service Desk giving a description of your issue, a screenshot of any error message and quoting your:

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/ds/students/computing-facilities:
Digital Services is responsible for the management of over 1600 centrally supported PC systems in Laboratory, Library Open Access Areas and Teaching Rooms across all University campuses.
A laboratory, if closed for security reasons, can be opened by security staff on production of a valid Student ID card.
A letter from the student's lecturer requesting the use of the facilities gives added assurance that access will be granted.
Each lab has a set of core applications installed, some have additional software listed as Faculty software.
Additionally the University library service offers a laptop lending service at all campuses.
For further information regarding the facilities and software profiles in each lab across campuses, please select the appropriate link below:
Any member of staff who wishes to book a student PC laboratory should book the space through timetabling link accessible through the Portal.
Note: It is the responsibility of the person intending to book a student lab to check that any specific software that is required is installed.
Only students, staff, visitors and associates with a current University account and password can gain entry to the University's online computers.
New students receive their account details after enrolment.
This information is also available from Banner - Student Information System via the Portal.
Note: Fees must be paid up-to date, otherwise you risk having access to various IT and library services disabled.
Computers in Digital Services supported IT laboratories and Libraries have an initial login screen.
You must enter your Student Email Address and network password to proceed.
If you forget your password, visit the Self-Service Password reset service page for more information and steps on how to complete a password reset.
Alternatively, if you are on campus, you can use the Password Kiosk to obtain a new password.
There is no local storage on student workstations.
After you log out, no user files will be stored and will not be recoverable.
You must use your OneDrive cloud storage or an external USB device.
Every student PC or Macintosh supported by Digital Services has a standard desktop and a core set of applications.
IT laboratories and core applications available at the Belfast campus.
IT laboratories and core applications available at the Coleraine campus
IT laboratories and core applications available at the Jordanstown campus.
IT laboratories and core applications available at the Derry~Londonderry campus.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/ds/students/banner-student-information-system:
The Banner Student Information System is a database of student records and information maintained by Ulster University.
The system retains student data relating to:
To access your Banner Student Record, log in to the Student Portal and click on 'Banner Student' to access the Banner Student Information System and you will be presented with your own Student Record.
Alternatively, if you do not know your login details for the Student Portal you can access Self Service Banner and enter the following  details when prompted:
Video guides for accessing the Banner - Student Information System and other services is available.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/ds/students/blackboard-ultra:
Blackboard Ultra is the University's virtual learning environment, which gives students online access to course materials, reading lists and other resources, assignments, multiple choice tests and other content relevant to your course.
Login to Blackboard Ultra
When you select the “Login using SSO button” you will be automatically authenticated in to Blackboard.
The login for Blackboard is the same credentials that you use for the Portal or Email - your email address and password.
For further information on signing into Blackboard, please visit the Blackboard Support Wiki .
To obtain your initial network password, please refer to the information on this Password page.
An introduction on how to use Blackboard Ultra by Andy Jaffrey from the Office for Digital Learning.
In order to resolve any Blackboard or Turnitin issue as efficiently as possible, please see below.
For assistance accessing Blackboard via the Portal using your Network password, contact the Service Desk .
For all other issues related to Blackboard functionality/content and Turnitin, contact the Blackboard support team
Please note, the core support hours are:
The University has a support wiki containing a range of pages regarding use of Blackboard , such as start of term tips, how to tune your web browser for full Blackboard functionality and content issues.
The wiki is a useful place to start for any queries or issues you may have.
It is important that you are enrolled on the correct modules.
The wiki page, ' Are you a registered student?
' will advise you on checking your registration.
You can also add or delete modules by processing a Module Amendment form - see the wiki page, ' How do I change my modules?
' for more information.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/ds/students/technology-for-online-learning:
All of Ulster’s teaching, learning and assessment systems are accessible through a standards compliant web browser such as Google Chrome, Firefox, Safari or Edge.
Our recommendation is Edge.
You will need access to a reliable internet connection to help with your study in a blended learning environment.
There are many things that can affect your internet speed including your geographical location, your distance from infrastructure and indeed other users in the household who might be sharing your internet connection.
You can run an internet speed test which will give an indication of the speed of your connection.
Whilst you may manage with less, you should expect to have at least 4Mbps download and upload speed for a good quality experience.
Your internet company – Internet Service Provider (ISP) - usually has a page for tips to improve your internet connection.
For example:
To improve your experience if your internet connection is slow, try turning off video in live sessions and participating with audio only.
If you live in a rural area, with poor connectivity, some students have successfully used 4G hubs, or tethered their computer through their mobile 4G network.
A good 4G connection may be reliable enough to use if you are the only person in the household using it, but it's a good idea to run a speed test first to ensure you have adequate connectivity.
As an Ulster University student, you automatically have access to Office 365 Apps as part of your studies.
This means that you can purchase a computer without an Office licence, saving you a substantial amount of money.
Although students are responsible for all software, including virus protection on their personal devices, as an Ulster student you will also have access to multiple free software downloads such as:
Ulster University has signed up to the Dell Advantage Programme.
This means Students can avail of exclusive discounts on consumer products, and special promotions on selected product lines.
You will find information on our self-help page on how to make your IT workspace more comformfortable.
Students new to Ulster will be provided with a Student ID, Email and password to enable access to these downloads and offers, after enrolment.
Current students can manage their password using the Self-Service Password Reset .
Further information is available on our Software Downloads and Offers page.
You will find more i
Whilst it is possible to access materials on a smartphone, or tablet on the go, we recommend it is essential to have access to a desktop PC or laptop to support your studies.
This will ensure that you have the ability to author content in a variety of formats such as documents, video or audio files.
The computer you use does not necessarily need to be a high specification.
If your computer was bought new within the last three or four years, it should be adequate for your studies.
Most companies that sell computers will have specialist sections of their websites for computers suitable for study and most modern laptops will be adequate for accessing Ulster systems.
Whilst a variety of devices are available, all with varying functionality, including basic devices such as tablets and Chromebooks, we do recommend that you consider a Windows-based laptop, due to the additional functionality that may be required.
Whatever brand you choose, for example Dell, HP, Acer; as a minimum specification we would recommend the device you opt for has:
For computing and engineering studies, and some built environment programmes, we recommend the following higher specification:
Further details on the programmes that would benefit from this higher specification can be found in the Faculty of Computing, Engineering and the Built Environment .
Your choice of screen size is a personal preference, the larger the screen – the heavier the device, making it less portable; however, you may have a better user experience with a larger screen.
To participate in online sessions, you will need a microphone and speakers.
Whilst the onboard microphones and speakers may be adequate on a laptop, think about features such as an In-Built Webcam, and a headset to use with any online classes, and to be able to interact fully online with academic and support staff.
A headset will also give you a better audio experience when working or collaborating in groups to cut down on background noise.
Logitech USB Headsets are a reliable choice, but Bluetooth earphones that come with mobile phones, are also a popular choice.
Our lecturers are currently supporting students who do not have access to good internet connections or technology, and they will be sympathetic and provide inclusive material for you to access at your own pace, if you have problems.
However, accessing the recommended specification of internet and technology will enhance your blended learning experience.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/ds/students/software-downloads-and-offers:
The latest version of Microsoft Office is available to download for current students, free of charge.
You can run Office on up to 5 desktop Mac or Windows workstations.
You can also run Office Mobile on up to 5 mobile devices (on supported operating systems).
Important note: after you leave and your Portal access is withdrawn, the Office suite will enter a state of reduced 'read only' functionality.
You can choose to continue read-only, to purchase a personal licence to regain full functionality or to remove the software entirely.
Further information and download instructions
Students can download SPSS which is a powerful statistical analysis program used for doing advanced statistical analysis of data for research and other projects.
You should note this software is already installed on University workstations..
To download SPSS or renew your licence, go to  the knowledge base in Unidesk self service portal link below
SPSS and Amos Download and install codes - Self-Service Portal (unidesk.ac.uk)
Students who require an Online Survey account should make a request to their supervisor.
If approved, the supervisor should complete the Unidesk self service portal form.
Once your request is approved, you will be emailed a link to your Ulster University email address to activate your account.
Further Information and Guides
NVivo is software for Microsoft Windows that supports qualitative and mixed methods research.
It lets you collect, organise and analyse content from interviews, focus group discussions, survey, audio - and social media data, YouTube videos and web pages.
Current install codes are available from Unidesk self service portal at link below
Nvivo install codes - Self-Service Portal (unidesk.ac.uk)
MATLAB (matrix laboratory) is a multi-paradigm numerical computing environment.
A proprietary programming language developed by MathWorks, MATLAB allows matrix manipulations, plotting of functions and data, implementation of algorithms, creation of user interfaces, and interfacing with programs written in other languages, including C, C++, C#, Java, Fortran and Python.
Visit the MatLab portal to download for free.
If you are a student, teacher, lecturer, administrator or other staff member in education you qualify for special discounted pricing on Apple computers, software and select third party products.
Quantity limits apply.
To get started saving find out more at the * Apple Store for Education
*Note: You can only use Apple's University (HE) stores when connected via your campus network.
If you are off campus you can still order by calling 0800 072 1154.
Information is available from Software4Students on purchasing Adobe products, Kaspersky Anti-Virus & other security software.
Microsoft Operating Systems and other software.
ICT Customer Services has negotiated a laptop purchase scheme on behalf of the University.
It is arranged under the University Colleges and Information Systems Association (UCISA) National Laptop Agreement.
Visit the Student Store to find out more information.
Ulster University has signed up to the Dell Advantage Programme.This means Staff and Students can avail of exclusive discounts on consumer products, and special promotions on selected product lines, all year round.
To sign up and for more information, please follow the links below:
As a University student you can download professional Microsoft developer, designer, and gaming software through Microsoft Azure for students at no charge.
Please contact your faculty technical staff to arrange access.
Read&Write is a literacy support tool designed to help with reading, writing, and studying.
It is especially useful for students with dyslexia or other learning differences, but anyone can benefit from its features.
The latest version of Microsoft Office is available to download for current staff and students, free of charge.
A literacy support tool to help with reading, writing, and studying, especially useful for those with dyslexia or other learning differences, but anyone can benefit from its features.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/ds/students/access-software-from-home:
The Azure Virtual Desktop Service (AVD) gives secure access, for students, to popular University software and your files whilst you are away from campus.
You can connect from anywhere, using most devices, including your PC, laptop, tablet or Chromebook.
You will need a browser and an internet connection.
All students are eligible for the Azure Virtual Desktop service.
Students should attempt to download and install software locally where possible in the first instance.
If not viable or feasible to do so, requests for access need to be submitted via the Course/Module Coordinator and/or Faculty Technical representative to the Service Desk.
Requests should include:
The faculty technical representation and/or the Course/Module Coordinator will be the single point of contact for Digital Services in terms of communication and coordination and support for use of the application will be through Faculty technical representatives as normal.
For the best experience in terms of speed and functionality, we recommend you download the Remote Desktop app for your device:
For the best experience in terms of speed and functionality, we recommend you download the Remote Desktop app for your device as advised above, however, you can also connect via your web browser, however this will be more restrictive:
Use AVD to access applications you can't get on your computer whilst you're away from campus.
There is no need to log in to AVD for the following:
Students can access a range of common and faculty specific applications (detailed below), in addition to standard software such as Microsoft Office 365 and various web browsers.
Please note: CAD and specialist software are not available currently via AVD.
Some applications may not be available due to licensing restrictions.
Discounted and no-cost software titles are also available to download and install on own PC and personal devices:
The Azure Virtual Desktop (AVD) service gives you access to the same Windows 10 desktop and applications that you use on campus from anywhere with an internet connection on any device.
What do I need to access the AVD service?
You need an internet connection, a University login ID and a device capable of running the client software (or any HTML5-compatible browser, e.g.
Edge).
For the best performance, you can download the client software:
You can also access directly from an HTML5-compliant browser.
The supported browsers are:
CPU Workloads
GPU Workloads (by request)
Yes, with the following minimum requirements:
Yes, the AVD service uses an encrypted link between the Microsoft cloud and campus to protect your data.
Your local printers should automatically be available within AVD when using the Windows or Mac desktop clients.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/ds/students/student-hubs:
Ulster University ICT Customer Services supports Learning and Teaching by providing some key facilities to staff and students.
As well as teaching spaces and computing laboratories, there are numerous Student Hubs, also known as social learning environments, available across campuses which are popular with staff and students.
Student Hubs are equipped with electrical power supply and are networked via the Eduroam wireless service.
Many also have large display screens which may be used by students to work independently or in groups.
HDMI cables for connection of personal laptops to the screens are provided, however, due to the variety of personal device outputs, you may need to carry and use your personal adaptor.
If you find cables missing please contact the Service Desk .

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/ds/students/student-leaver-it:
Upon completion of your studies, you will have a limited 6-month window to access your Student IT account.
After this time your student IT account and its associated data will be deleted.
The removal of your IT account is essential for your own privacy and security.
The IT systems and services that will become unavailable to students not returning to a new programme of study includes:
Please Note: if you are continuing your studies at Ulster on a new course, you don’t need to do anything as the new registration process will automatically preserve your IT account and you won’t lose any data.
If you wish to retain emails or files from your OneDrive cloud storage, you must download these before your access is withdrawn.
You may also wish to purchase your own licence to Microsoft Office Applications via the Microsoft web store .
If you have subscribed to any mailing lists, please remember to cancel them before you leave.
If you have registered your @ulster email address with any websites external to the University, please contact them in advance of leaving the University to update your registered email to a personal email address to ensure that you can continue to sign in after access to your University account ceases.
Note - Digital Services staff cannot assist you in moving your data, but we have provided some guidance below on Backing up your University Data.
Any important emails should be forwarded to your personal email account:
Note: you cannot bulk send more than one email at a time
Note: you cannot download OneNote files, they must be transferred within OneNote to a new notebook on a different account
Note: this download will be saved to your Downloads folder on your computer unless you specify otherwise
Note: you cannot select more than one file to download

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/events/ulster-talks:
Lectures & Talks from some of the experts working at Ulster.
You can take at look at the past events in the Ulster Talks Archive .

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/ulsterpresents:
All things Arts and Culture, online and in person.
Bring some culture to your inbox.
PULP's Mark Webber and Tariq Ali to visit Ulster University for talk events as part of Cathedral Quarter Arts Festival.
Ulster Presents and CQAF
Exhibitions of new artworks by the artists and UU staff/alumni - Katherine Penney, Majella Clancy and Mark McGreevy.
Ulster Presents
Ulster Presents welcomes Craig Oldham, Rough Trade Books' Creative Director, as part of Out To Lunch Festival.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/events/2025/open-day-4-sept-belfast-campus:
Thinking of applying to uni?
Open Days is your chance to meet our course teams and find the right path for you.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/find-courses:
Showing 1
                        -41 of 
                      553 results Clear all filters
Nurturing Expertise, Fostering Wellness: Advance Your Veterinary Nursing Career
Animation at Ulster is a studio focused, highly creative course, specialising in computer animation for games, VFX, feature and TV animation.
Biomedical Sciences education to equip students to work as a Biomedical Scientist in a health service laboratory, 4 years full time.
Biomedical Science degree with a diploma in professional practice to become a Biomedical Scientist in a health service laboratory, 4 years full time.
Providing flexible and engaging distance learning opportunities to students keen to succeed in today's challenging health social care environment.
Fully online, distance learning, flexible part-time BSc (Hons) Applied Medical Sciences in collaboration with Sligo Institute of Technology.
Preparing professionals for the global pharmaceutical workplace
Zero carbon/low energy engineering to create sustainable, safe, healthy and comfortable internal building environments.
Develops students' knowledge understanding of the systems and processes of architectural practice.
Architectural Technology is the technical side of architecture focusing on the science and performance aspects of building design.
Showing 1-41 of 553 results

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/apprenticeships/apprentices:
To apply for a higher level apprenticeship you must have a job and your employer must be willing to support you to undertake an apprenticeship in a subject that's relevant to your job.
Follow the link to access our Results Day Guide for Apprenticeships.
A Degree Apprenticeship offers an alternative route to getting a university degree.
To take part in a Degree Apprenticeship programme you need, as a minimum, to be:
If you're not eligible for our Degree Apprenticeship programme because you're in school or you don't have a job, you can get more information about other apprenticeships by visiting these websites:
Higher level and degree apprenticeships are work-based training programmes designed to help you gain paid practical experience at the same time as studying for a university level qualification.
You'll be an employee, and with the support of your employer can study on one of our higher level and degree apprenticeships.
So you get to work, earn, learn and progress at the same time.
For you as an apprentice there's no cost to do a higher level or degree apprenticeship.
You'll be paid as an employee of the company you're working for as well as receiving a university education that is paid for by the Department for the Economy.
If you're interested in becoming an apprentice you should apply for a job with an employer who is offering a degree apprenticeship opportunity.
These can be found at NI Direct or by looking at websites such as NI Jobs or Job Finder NI both of which operate an apprentices category or apprenticeship intermediaries such as Work Plus or by contacting employers directly.
If you already have a job you can talk to your employer about the possibility of undertaking an apprenticeship and if they aren't aware you can let them know what's available.
We can help and will be happy to come and meet you and your employer.
We can advise on eligibility for funding as well.
You can only apply to the university once you are employed or have a confirmed offer of apprenticeship employment.
Your employer has to be willing and able to support you throughout the duration of your apprenticeship.
You do not have to decide immediately what is the best option for you and can apply for  full-time higher education (through UCAS) and an apprenticeship with an employer.
This lets you keep your options open until you decide.
Higher and degree apprenticeships are created with employers and then approved by the Department for the Economy.
We currently have Degree Apprenticeships in these areas:
Global Capital Markets (Masters)
There are many similarities with traditional full time study – the course content may be similar and you will be part of a group of learners that benefit from each other’s support and the university’s experts and facilities.
Higher and degree apprenticeships are taught a little differently though.
As well as being offered the knowledge and skills you’d expect from a high quality degree, we also support you to maximise the impact from your study and your work place – together.
Assessments can include reports, problem solving activities, presentations and in-company projects – all ensuring that you're able to integrate your academic study with on-the-job training.
Degree apprenticeships are work-based qualifications, which means that much of your learning is done in the workplace, however you are likely to spend one day a week undertaking off the job learning at University.
Some degree apprenticeship programmes may require you to be in University for blocks of study.
Check our Apprenticeship programme descriptions for the details on your specific course.
Each degree apprenticeship programme may be different, it also depends on the qualifications you already have.
The minimum length of an apprenticeship is two years (if you already have a foundation degree), the average duration is four to five years.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/life:
Find out what it's like to study and live at Ulster
Discover how Ulster University helps you to develop your career.
UUSU currently represents approximately 25,000 student members and provides a vast range of services for members including academic representation, welfare advice, volunteering opportunities and enhancement of the student experience through events, activities, clubs, societies and change programmes.
Study at Ulster and build your international experience
Access a quality education whilst attaining success at the highest levels of sport with a reduction in entry requirements available for full-time undergraduate courses.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/parents:
Sitting down with your child to discuss their post-school plans can be challenging, especially if they aren’t sure what they...
For parents and guardians
Find out what it is likely to cost going to University and the array of help that is available to...
If university is likely to be the next step for your child, this is when the research phase begins in...
UCAS is the admissions body that processes all applications to full-time courses at UK universities.
We place ambition at the heart of everything we do to ensure our students excel and unleash their full potential.
Exciting and nerve-wracking in equal measure, here’s how to prepare and navigate results day.
Families play an invaluable role in the life of any new university student as a source of guidance, support and encouragement.
We hope this guide has given you the information you need to help and advise your family member during this transition period, but if you have any further queries or concerns, please get in touch with us.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-subjects:
The most reliable way to predict your future is to create it.
Develop financial expertise and strategic thinking for careers in accounting, finance, investment, and economics at Ulster University.
Design sustainable cities and communities.
Gain expertise in architecture, planning, and the built environment at Ulster University.
Unleash your creativity in art, design, and digital media.
Study innovative programmes that blend storytelling, technology, and imagination.
Explore biology and biomedical science with practical learning and research that shapes the future of medicine and healthcare.
Gain industry-ready expertise in business, marketing, and management.
Prepare to lead, grow brands, and drive business success.
Create films, design games, and master storytelling with degrees in cinema, moving image arts, and games design at Ulster University.
Master media, journalism, PR, and digital storytelling.
Prepare for a dynamic career in communication and content creation.
Study computing, cybersecurity, AI, and data science.
Shape the digital future with in-demand tech expertise at Ulster University.
Prepare for a rewarding career in education.
Study education combined with other subjects for future teaching and training roles.
Solve global challenges with degrees in engineering.
Gain technical and creative expertise for careers in design, development, energy, and technology.
Explore language, literature, and linguistics.
Study storytelling, communication, and culture at Ulster University.
Study nutrition, food science, and culinary arts.
Prepare for careers improving health, performance, and sustainability.
Explore climate, ecosystems, and sustainability.
Study geography and environmental science to shape a greener future.
Study history and explore past events, ideas, and cultures.
Develop critical thinking and research expertise for diverse careers.
Shape unforgettable experiences in tourism, hospitality, and events.
Study a dynamic industry that connects people and cultures.
Pursue justice with degrees in law and criminology.
Prepare for careers in legal practice, policy, and criminal justice.
Master marketing, PR, and journalism.
Learn to lead campaigns, build brands, and communicate in a digital world.
Train for impactful healthcare careers.
Study medicine, radiography, physiotherapy, podiatry, and more at Ulster University's state-of-the-art facilities.
Study adult, mental health, paramedic, or veterinary nursing.
Gain clinical expertise to care, support, and improve lives.
Study music or drama in a creative, supportive environment.
Develop your talent and prepare for a career in the performing arts.
Shape cities and communities with degrees in planning, regeneration, and real estate.
Drive development and sustainable growth.
Study pharmacy and drug development.
Gain scientific and clinical expertise for careers in healthcare and pharmaceuticals.
Study policy and politics to drive social change.
Gain leadership competence to shape communities and influence decision-making.
Explore the human mind and behaviour.
Study psychology to learn interesting new perspectives on how we engage with the world we inhabit.
Empower people and communities.
Study social work or youth work to support, advocate, and create lasting change.
Study sport science, coaching, and exercise.
Help others perform, stay healthy, and achieve their fitness and sporting goals.
Care for animals and support vets in practice.
Study veterinary nursing at Ulster University and become a compassionate guardian of animal health.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/prospectus/undergraduate-prospectus:
Our undergraduate prospectus gives you a taste of life and study at Ulster.
Download your 2026/2027 Undergraduate Prospectus.
One university – 3 amazing campuses – Over 250 degree programmes.
Discover the wide variety of courses we have on offer and find out about our campus facilities, as well as the support you'll receive while studying with us.
Complete the form to view and download the latest undergraduate prospectus.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/advice-centre:
Everything you need to know about studying at Ulster University.
Whether you are choosing your course for the first time or you’re considering transferring from another university, make your choice at home.
Cheaper tuition fees, study now-pay later loans and affordable living are just some of the reasons you should consider Northern Ireland for University.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/gonorth:
We are Ireland's 2nd Largest university with over 30,000 students across our three campuses.
Awarded 'University of the Year 2024' by Times Higher Education, and voted by students as the #1 University in the UK (Student Crowd, 2024), discover why so many from the Republic of Ireland are choosing Ulster University.
Awaiting the results of your Leaving Certificate?
Check out our dedicated results day page for information about what happen's next and programmes still available via UCAS Clearing.
Expert course teams and employability consultants work with employers, industry partners and professional bodies to design Ulster’s course content and how you learn.
Ulster’s teaching philosophy “Learning by Doing” means students build subject skills and knowledge whilst acquiring the professional competencies needed for the workplace.
We also work with local, international and global employers to offer over 2,500 professional placement opportunities each year.
Ulster’s commitment to research-led teaching means you will directly benefit from the world-leading research informing careers and industries now and for the future.
You will be taught by researchers and academics and have access the same cutting-edge facilities as our research teams.
Ulster is repeatedly recognised for its teaching quality, including the independent National Student Survey .
Ulster’s teaching quality is a direct result of its people and investment in facilities and technologies.
A leader in learning innovation Ulster’s teaching staff of world-leading experts and practitioners is regularly recognised nationally for their outstanding impact on student outcomes.
Ulster has been at the forefront of digital learning delivering accessible learning and providing the latest learning and industry technologies to students both on and off-campus.
Alongside Ulster’s reputation as a career-centric university, Ulster is recognised for its supportive student-centred environment.
Shortlisted in 2022 for UK Times University of the Year, Ulster was applauded for both its teaching quality and student experience.
Student Wellbeing is here to support students prior and during their time at Ulster.
Alongside the team at UUSU, the Student Wellbeing team helps students navigate student life including money matters, mental health, and well-being.
We guarantee affordable and comfortable campus accommodation to applicants who receive a course offer from Ulster University, and who apply for accommodation by 7 July 2025.
Our accommodation is among the most affordable in the UK & Ireland.
Northern Ireland is the most affordable place to live, work and study* in the UK and Ireland.
You could save up to €10,000 in accommodation fees alone**.
*Which?, 2018 **UU Duncreggan Village (41 week contract) vs UCD Glenomena Residence (37 week contract) cost difference (based on 2025/26 fees across a three year degree.
You don't have to pay tuition fees yourself during your time at Ulster University.
You can apply for a Tuition Fee Loan which covers 100% of tuition fees.
You only have to repay this when you graduate and earn over £24,990 per year.
So, study now, pay later!
Stay away from the CAO points race.
When you apply to Ulster you will be applying through UCAS, meaning you won’t be disappointed at having missed out on your first choice due to points for courses surging.
Our points system is fixed and does not change.
Cromore Rd, Coleraine BT52 1SA
Northland Rd, Londonderry BT48 7JL
Come on in and take a tour around each campus and get to know the possibilities of where you could set up camp!
You can choose up to 5 courses from over 300+ higher education institutions across the UK.
Later in the application cycle, you will then confirm two of your choices as your first and second preference study choices respectively.
You can still apply to Ulster University courses after the 31 January and up until 30 June.
Please note that some courses will not be available for application after the 31 January which have restricted application timelines.
No.
Applications to Ulster University are not made through CAO, but instead are made through UCAS , the college admissions system for UK universities.
Yes!
As a university hopeful, there is a universe of college choices across the UK & Ireland for you to apply to.
You can apply to both CAO and UCAS and then decide which college you want to study at later.
The fee for full-time undergraduate study is regulated by the Department for the Economy.
The rate for 2024/25 will be published as soon as we receive formal notification from the Department.
When it becomes available, the information will be published on our 2023/24 Fees page.
The fee for academic year 2023/24 was £4,710.
As a Republic of Ireland applicant, you are eligible to apply for a Tuition Fee Loan from the Student Loans Company which you only have to pay back once you've graduated and are earning over the salary threshold.
This loan is non-means tested and covers 100% of tuition fees.
The loan does not affect your credit score or financial lending status.
Students who are eligible for SUSI maintenance funding can use this while they study at Ulster University.
Additional financial support is available for students, including a Financial Hardship Fund.
You stop owing either when you've cleared the debt, or when 25 years (from the April after graduation) have passed, whichever comes first.
Regardless of how little or much you have repaid on your loan, after 25 years your loan debt is cancelled.
Yes, that's right.
Nursing and Allied Health courses are fully commissioned by the Department for Health NI, meaning whether you study nursing as a first degree, or second, your fees will be covered, and you will have access to a Nursing Bursary.
A comprehensive range of financial scholarships, awards and prizes are available to undergraduate students.
Individuals may be able to apply directly or may automatically be nominated for awards.
Irish Leaving Certificate applicants must be undertaking a minimum of 5 Leaving Certificate subjects, 4 of which must be at Higher Level.
Applicants must then satisfy the course-specific entry requirements which may include specific subjects, grades or UCAS points tariff.
Most courses at UU ask applicants to meet a specific UCAS points tariff in order to have their place of the course confirmed.
All subjects undertaken at Leaving Cert will be used in the calculation of UCAS Tariff points, with the exception of Leaving Cert Vocational Programme (LCVP).
All other subjects are counted.
No additional points are awarded for doing Higher Level Maths.
No, UCAS points do not fluctuate depending on how well applicants perform or how many applicants apply.
Unlike the CAO system, UCAS points requirements do not change.
If you see a course advertised at a certain UCAS points tariff, you will be placed on the course if you meet those requirements.
No, Irish is not a required subject for general entry to UU programmes, with the exception of our BA Hons Irish Language & Literature course.
In all other courses it is not required but can be offered as one of the 5 necessary Leaving Certificate subjects.
No, a second language at Leaving Cert is not required for entry to UU programmes.
Unfortunately, HEAR and DARE is only available for applicants to third-level institutions in the Republic of Ireland.
Yes, we accept a range of PLC qualifications including QQI Level 5.
For information on whether your particular qualification is accepted and entry reqruiements, please contact our Admissions Team .
Our accommodation options start from just £110 p/w for a single-bed dormitory (37 week contract).
Our accommodation offering is high quality and one of the most affordable in the UK/Ireland.
The accommodation fees are available online.
You will need to make a payment to accept your room offer.
As part of the acceptance process you will need to choose one of the payment plan options.
Further information on payment terms can also be found online.
Ulster can guarantee accommodation for single first-year students who make UU their "Conditional Firm" choice on UCAS and who apply for accommodation by by the 7 th July 2024.
We do not make students share bedrooms.
YES!
We are happy to allocate groups of friends together provided we have all your applications in as early as possible.
It may not always be possible if there is limited accommodation available and to be fair to other applicants we unfortunately cannot hold rooms for late applications.
At the end of your online application you will be given the opportunity to join a ‘Group’ with your friends.
The first member of the group must create a unique Group Reference and then pass that Reference to all other members of the Group.
Subsequent members of the group should ensure that this Group Reference is entered correctly when they apply for accommodation.
If it is not a second group will be created and we may not be able to match these groups.
When the correct Group Reference is entered, students will see who else has joined the group and have the option of staying or leaving the Group at that stage.
If you can provide us with the unique Group Reference we can manually add that to your application, however, this is only after confirmation has been given from the other group members that they wish to include you in their grou
Applications to Ulster University are made through UCAS.
The application deadline for full-time undergraduate courses is 29 January 2025 .
UCAS applications for 2026 entry will open in May 2025.
Complete the form below and we'll send you a link to a recording of our Applying to UCAS Webinar.
Michael Murphy
MSc Sport & Exercise student from Glenswilly and Donegal Gaelic Football Captain
If you need any help or advice with your UCAS application please contact a member of the team – see details below:
Market Engagement
BD-05-017C

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/contact:
Let us know what you are interested in studying and any questions you have.
We're here to help.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/student/wellbeing/support-programmes/mind-your-mood:
Mind Your Mood will return in 2025.
Mind Your Mood is the student-led mental health campaign at Ulster University.
Mind Your Mood aims to give students the opportunity to understand mental health issues, promote ways to improve your mental health and encourage students to talk about their mental health.
Mental health affects how we function in everyday life, so it is important.
Just like we need to look after our physical health, we need to look after our mental health.
We need to actively take care of ourselves.
The majority of people are aware of the implications of ignoring their physical health, however, the consequences of ignoring our mental health can be just as serious, yet it is something we tend to ignore.
Mind your Mood plans to tackle this by partnering with a range of charities and individual speakers to provide educational workshops, as well as running events and health fairs to promote awareness.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/student/wellbeing/disability/accessability/new-students:
You can find out more about the process and support available in our Open Day Presentation .
Before you meet with an AccessAbility Adviser, you need to provide us with your medical evidence .
If you cannot provide adequate medical evidence, we will not be able to proceed with your reasonable adjustment recommendations.
This initial appointment will take up to 1 hour.
During the meeting, you will discuss various themes so that the Adviser can develop your personal reasonable adjustment recommendations.
These discussed themes will include:
The AccessAbility team have an anticipatory duty to arrange support for prospective students, but this does not constitute an offer or acceptance of a place to study at Ulster University.
However, after your first meeting and prior to confirmation or registration the following things may happen:
Student Wellbeing views confidentiality as a means of providing students with safety and privacy, as well as creating an environment where our students feel comfortable in seeking support.
We hold and process your data in line with the University’s General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR).
On occasion, it may be necessary for us to share information with relevant third parties in your best interests including; health and social care professionals, parent and/or next of kin if there is a known or suspected risk of harm to yourself or others.
There may also be occasions where we have a legal obligation to share information and you will be advised of this.
These instances may include;
Your data is collected only for the purposes of providing support services to you, and held electronically on the University CRM system.
This information is held securely against your student record, but is only accessible to staff within Student Experience & Wellbeing.
All personal data is held securely and only accessible in relation to providing additional support services to you, and is compliant with GDPR.
Read more on the Student Privacy Notice.
We may require copies of documentation as supporting evidence in order to provide some services, making recommendations to other University departments or services providers (or third party organisations), but this will be at your request.
The Disabled Students' Allowance (DSA) provides funded support for UK students with disabilities in higher education, to enable them to benefit fully from their chosen course of study.
There are four elements of DSA support:
Additional information and application forms are available through Student Finance NI and it is best to apply as soon as you can.
Delaying your application could mean a delay in accessing your support at University.
It is your responsibility to apply for Disabled Students' Allowance (if you are eligible to do so) so that you can proceed to arranging a needs assessment.
We have created a DSA roadmap to guide you through the process of accessing funded support at university.
If you are an international student or from the Republic of Ireland you may also be able to access funded support and your accessibility adviser will discuss this with you at your meeting.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/student/wellbeing/health-and-wellbeing:
Your wellbeing is important and if you are happy and healthy you are more likely to have a better experience at University.
The Student Wellbeing team works to provide holistic guidance on a range of mental and physical wellbeing concerns as well as confidential advice and support to students with undiagnosed mental health conditions, personal issues and academic issues.
We promote positive wellbeing to students through awareness raising activities and health campaigns including drug and alcohol awareness, sexual consent and the de-stigmatisation of mental health issues among the student population.
We also provide training workshops to students and staff to better understand the barriers and opportunities to better health and wellbeing at university.
Workshops include supporting the transition to university, managing stress and increasing resilience.
Take a look at the information below for guidance on how to look after your physical health and emotional wellbeing at university.
If you have any concerns about a relationship come and talk to us in Student Wellbeing.
Learn how you can look after your physical health at university.
Contact details for when you are in need.
Honest facts about drugs and alcohol can help you make better choices enabling you to be safe and stay well.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/find-courses:
Showing 1
                        -41 of 
                      557 results Clear all filters
Students will develop their practice in an advanced way to provide a holistic care experience to benefit both the service and patient.
The School of Health Sciences aims to provide quality advanced education for Allied Health Professionals to enhance their skills in client care.
Storytelling and skills building through animation production
Storytelling and skills building through animation production.
The MSc Applied Behaviour Analysis is a pathway to UKSBA Registration accredited by the Professional Standards Authority for Health Social Care
Providing flexible and engaging distance learning opportunities to students keen to succeed in today's challenging health and social care environment.
In-depth therapy training, practice-relevant research methodologies, and the application of mental health theory across the lifespan.
Accredited therapy training, practice-relevant research methodologies, and the application of mental health theory across the lifespan.
Architecture: The Best of Both Worlds - where science meets art.
Please note that this course will not be recruiting for September 2025 entry.
Please see the Summary for further information.
Developing new skills in the emerging field of Artificial Intelligence
Creating the next generation of high quality professionals for the AI industry.
Showing 1-41 of 557 results

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/information-for-business:
Partner with Ulster for Tailored Learning Solutions.
Find out how Robert's postgraduate programme has benefitted him and his business.
Our short courses are a great option for gaining discreet skills or providing a taster to further study.
Funded by the Department for the Economy
The Skill Up programme offers employers across Northern Ireland a valuable opportunity to reskill and upskill their workforce at no cost, helping to address skills gaps, boost productivity, and support innovation in a fast-evolving economy.
This September in Derry~Londonderry, you could join a postgraduate programme designed to help you lead in a fast-changing world.
Through partnership and collaboration, we can work to solve your immediate challenges whilst building the expertise and talent infrastructure to support you in the long term.
Together we can transform organisations, improve society, and drive growth
Connect with us for innovative programme development and learning solutions for your employees, or for guidance on the most appropriate programme of study.
We offer tailored programmes, working collaboratively with you to create a bespoke curriculum that precisely aligns with your unique business needs.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/conversion-courses/home:
What is a Conversion Course?
Conversion courses are degree programmes which enable you to pursue a career in a sector or area distinct from your undergraduate degree.
These programmes are the perfect way to transfer your expertise to a new field.
You don’t have to have a background in the subject area to study at postgraduate level meaning these courses are perfect if you want to accelerate a change in career path.
It’s not too late to pursue your passions with teaching, drama, journalism and art conversion courses.
Open new career opportunities with leadership, consultancy, and finance expertise.
Jumpstart your IT career with in-demand expertise in computing and software development.
Thinking about a career change?
Step into a world of opportunities in the tourism and event industries.
Fastrack your accreditation for a career in law with our accelerated conversion courses.
Follow your calling and make a difference with a career in medicine.
Are you looking to pivot your career or expand your expertise in Law?
Ever imagined becoming a Doctor?
It’s not too late to study medicine with this 4 year degree for graduates.
Many of our conversion courses allow you to apply even without a degree in the specific subject area.
This provides an excellent opportunity for you to fast-track your career change or pursue a new passion, regardless of your previous academic background or undergraduate degree.
Explore our full range of postgraduate programmes.
There are many benefits to postgraduate study including career advancement and personal development.
Have a question regarding the above courses?

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/the-right-level:
If you are considering postgraduate study but are unsure as to what each of the award levels mean and which is best for you, we are here to help
Ulster University offers a range of postgraduate study options that enable you to gradually build your qualifications and develop your knowledge and skills, quickly and affordably.
Many of our postgraduate programmes have been designed so, you can work towards a final Masters’ level qualification whilst gaining CV building qualifications like Postgraduate Certificates and Diplomas.
You can also build your skills and expertise through short courses.
Many of our programmes are offered part-time and online, giving you the flexibility of fitting study around your busy home and work life.
If we haven't provided you with all the information you need within our video and below, do not hesitate to contact us .
Modules are the building blocks of our courses.
Each module is designed so you can acquire a package of skills and knowledge within a single module.
Many of our modules and courses offer the additional benefit of being accredited by leading industry bodies and organisations.
Each module has a corresponding number of credit points which reflects the level of expertise attained and are used to calculate the cost of each course.
You may want to progress to a greater level of award, and you can do this by combining the required modules for higher- level qualifications all the way up to Masters’ level.
Some courses have more than one award available.
This means that you can choose the award level that best meets your needs.
Your credit points will build towards an award or qualification and once achieved, you can move onto the next award level following the successful completion of further study.
Each course is designed to meet the needs of the industry or sector.
To achieve the award level, you need to successfully attain the number of credit points required.
For example, a Masters programme may require four modules of 30 credit points and a dissertation of 60 credit points for a total of 180 credit points.
Undertaking a short course may be your best option if you decide a single module provides you with the skills you need or you want a postgraduate taster.
Many of our courses are recognised by professional bodies and meet industry needs for Continuing Professional Development (CPD).
Short courses have various starting points throughout the year.
We design our courses so that you can build your qualifications over-time.
Your employees can complete a short course or module and then return to study additional modules to  gain their Postgraduate Certificate, ideally within a five-year timeframe.
In consultation with employers and industry, we have developed a number of courses to deliver a discrete set of skills, but which do not build towards a higher-level award like a Masters.
If choosing this path, the credit points cannot contribute to a Postgraduate Diploma or Masters.
A Postgraduate Certificate or a Postgraduate Diploma provides you with the discrete skills and expertise you need whilst providing your employee with a valuable and widely recognized award, and for some courses, the expertise needed for accreditations.
The Postgraduate Certificate and the Postgraduate Diploma reflect a combination of modules (skills), with the Postgraduate Certificate as the entry award level building towards Masters-level education.
If you are interested in pursuing a Masters qualification but are not sure if you can commit to a full Masters when enrolling, a Postgraduate Certificate or a Postgraduate Diploma might be the best option for you.
You can understand what it is like to study at postgraduate level whilst gaining skills and CV-differentiating qualifications as you work towards a Masters.
If you are not sure which award level or combination of modules will best meet your needs, do not hesitate to contact us .
A PhD is research leading to a Doctorate.
The degree normally takes between three and four years of full-time work, allowing you to make an original contribution to your chosen subject.
Ulster University has a range of PhD opportunities available for Doctoral candidates.
If you’re not sure what is the best option available to you, do not hesitate to contact us.
We can discuss your personal goals and circumstances and match you to the best course available.
We can also put you in touch with the course director who can provide you with more details about the course content and how it can benefit your career.
We look forward to talking with you, contact us .

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/prospectus/postgraduate-prospectus:
One university – 3 amazing campuses – Over 300 postgraduate programmes.
Complete the form below to download a prospectus.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/student/fees/funding-your-studies/postgraduate:
Find out more about Graduate Entry Medicine and Postgraduate funding.
When you have decided to study at Ulster, you will need to identify how much it will cost and what funding options are available to you.
The majority of postgraduate courses offer no maintenance funding support, therefore, students will need to ensure they have sufficient savings, regular income, or sponsorship to cover their daily living costs whilst studying.
Please see the Additional Sources of Funding section below for potential supports.
If you have previously studied at Ulster University, you may be eligible to avail of the Alumni Discount
Any queries regarding funding, please email sma@ulster.ac.uk
Students completing a full-time PGCE (Postgraduate Certificate of Education) are funded through the undergraduate student funding system.
Maintenance funding is to help with essential daily living costs whilst completing your course.
Payments are made in three instalments during the academic year.
Please refer to the payment schedule found on your Student Finance Notification of Entitlement letter.
Students who already hold a PGCE are not eligible for funding.
As such, students will need to meet these costs themselves.
Please see the Self-Funded Study section below.
Due to the nature of these courses, additional mandatory costs can be expected, please ensure you are aware of these and have made sufficient provisions to cover these before commencing your course.
For further information on such costs, please view course specific information at Ulster University .
Students who complete a PGCE can also avail of an SFNI Postgraduate Tuition Fee Loan (see 'Other Postgraduate Study' section below).
If the funding available will not cover your essential daily living costs, please see the Additional sources of funding section below.
Due to the nature of this course, additional mandatory costs can be expected, please ensure you are aware of these and have made sufficient provisions to cover these before commencing your course.
Postgraduate Tuition Fees loans are available to students completing a Postgraduate Certificate, Postgraduate Diploma, and taught or research Masters.
The course must be completed within three years or less, whether on a full-time or part-time basis.
PhD researchers should visit The Doctoral College for course specific information.
You may be eligible to apply for a Studentship.
The Postgraduate Tuition Fee loan is available to students who already hold a postgraduate qualification of any level providing that you have not already availed of this loan in previous years.
If you have already taken a loan, you will need to arrange Tuition Fees Payment.
If you have studied at Ulster university before, you may be eligible for a discount .
Scholarships and Prizes are available through various schools, courses and external organisations.
Each has its own eligibility criteria.
Please take your time to read through the information provided to ensure you are eligible before applying.
Commonwealth Scholarships Commission provides support to International Students studying in the UK.
Scholarships provide talented and motivated individuals with the opportunity to enhance knowledge and skills in their given sector, in order to contribute to sustainable development in their home countries.
Students completing Graduate Entry Medicine can apply for Bank of Ireland Graduate Medical School borrowing to cover the cost of tuition fees each year of the course.
Student bank accounts off access to interest free overdrafts for the duration of your course.
Graduate accounts are available through some high street banks.
They are the cheapest and most flexible way to borrow money, if managed wisely.
Personal Loans can sourced online or through local high street branches.
Shop around for the most affordable deals with the lowest interest rate.
Credit Union loans can be sourced through your local branch both in Northern Ireland and Republic of Ireland .
You will need to be a member and will require some savings first.
Credit Unions offer loans without any hidden charges or fees for early repayment.
NI & ROI students may be eligible to apply for a North/South Postgraduate Scholarship should they choose to study a Master’s Degree or are entering the first year of a PhD programme at a university in the island of Ireland that is not in the same jurisdiction as the university where they have previously studied
If you are currently employed, speak to your employer about sponsorship to help fully or part-fund your course.
Self-fund your course by working whilst studying part-time.
Visit Employability and Graduate Futures for support with CV writing and employability skills.
Search for available placements and jobs through Handshake .
You can search Job Apply NI and NI Job Finder for current vacancies.
Don't forget to check local recruitment agencies and in-store advertisements for local vacancies.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/student/fees/tuition-fees-discounts:
There are two tuition fee discounts available:
If you are eligible for a tuition fee discount, you may only use one of these discounts within a single academic year.
Eligible Ulster University alumni commencing a programme with an intake year from 2015/16 will receive a 10% discount on their tuition fees.
You will qualify for our alumni discount if you have successfully completed one of the following at Ulster University:
The alumni discount is not available to:
This discount applies to full-time and part-time postgraduate taught programmes only and excludes PGCE and PhD programmes.
This discount cannot be used in conjunction with any other discount, offer or scholarship.
If you are an eligible fully self-funding student,  you will receive a 5% discount on your tuition fees.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/scholarships/search:
Showing 1-39 results
International Law Firm, A&O Shearman, supports the A&O Shearman Scholarships for the LLM in Access to Justice through the firm's Global Foundation.
Funded by Action Renewables, this scholarship will provide up to two full-time students on the MSc Energy Storage 2024 (Belfast campus), with £15,000 each to cover full tuition fees plus a stipend.
If you're intending to do a full-time undergraduate course and have been in receipt of EMA, you can apply for the All Ireland Scholarships Scheme.
Ulster University will offer up to six scholarships for students registered as asylum seekers in Northern Ireland.
The deadline for applications to this scholarship is Friday 13 June 2025.
The Belfast Girls' Club Union Bursaries offer financial aid to assist with access and travel opportunities for female students studying Community Youth Work.
Established in memory of Richard K.
Degenhardt, these scholarships offer financial support to students studying Ceramics or Irish/Celtic Studies.
This award aims to enhance the potential scale and impact of final year work at the School of Art.
The Choice Scholarships provide assistance for undergraduate students facing financial barriers.
The Creative Industries and Communication Scholarship is open to new international (excluding UK & RoI) entrants on the first year of a relevant course, commencing September 2025.
Evelyn Burges Scholarship in Drama
Frank Knox Fellowships were established in 1945 by Mrs Annie Reid Knox as the Frank Knox Memorial to enable students from the UK, along with those from Australia, Canada and New Zealand, to undertake graduate study at Harvard University, USA.
Open to students from the USA.
In partnership with the Fulbright Commission, Ulster University is offering postgraduate scholarships in Humanities and Social Sciences, and in the Creative Industries, both within the Faculty of Arts, Humanities and
GAA Irish Language Scholarships
In partnership with the British Council and the GREAT Britain Campaign, Ulster University are offering a number of scholarships to students who are applying for postgraduate programmes (excluding eLearning programmes).
Rewarding our most talented and committed high-performing student athletes, helping them achieve their sporting ambitions.
Supported by our generous donors, these scholarships aim to increase access to higher education for new students starting first year of an undergraduate course at Ulster University.
Open to all new international (excluding UK and RoI) entrants on a full-time postgraduate course delivered on one of our Northern Ireland campuses.
Open to all new international (excluding UK and RoI) entrants on the first year of a full-time undergraduate course delivered on one of our Northern Ireland campuses.
The Ireland Regional Health Care Scholarship Program Regional Scholarship (Funded by the United Health Foundation and supported by Optum Ireland).
The John J Sweeney Scholarship will support US students enrolled to study full-time on specified MSc or MA course at Ulster University.
Kainos is proud to be offering ten awards in 2024-25 to encourage women to build a long-term career in tech.
In 1964, a fund was established in the United Kingdom to commemorate President John F.
Kennedy.
Annual scholarships would be offered to British Citizens who are graduates of UK Universities to study at Harvard University or the Massachusetts
The Law and Criminology Scholarship is open to new international (excluding UK & RoI) entrants on the first year of a relevant course, commencing September 2025.
The Liam Kelly Scholarship in Law is available to students enrolled on both undergraduate and postgraduate Law courses at the University.
Learn more and apply for the Margaret Caher Scholarship in Irish Language and Literature.
A £1,000 scholarship per academic year, up to a maximum of 4 years, to one Undergraduate student on selected Engineering courses.
Funded by the British Chambers of Commerce (BCC), and supported by the Royal Town Planning Institute (RTPI), this Scholarship will pay the tuition fees for one student enrolled full-time on the MSc Planning and City Resilience Programme.
Funding to support education, enterprise and employability initiatives for students.
The Sharlene Gill Scholarship for Women in Engineering, supported by Omexom, will pay the full NI tuition fees for one Undergraduate student in Years Two and Four of their programme, as well as their Placement Year.
Offering students living in Co.
Derry/Londonderry, Co.
Tyrone, Co.
Fermanagh and Co.
Donegal an opportunity to apply for 50% funding towards tuition fees for a range of STEM/Business subjects.
The Study Abroad Scholarship is open to all international students who have previously studied at Ulster University as an exchange or study abroad student, and who wish to continue their studies on one of our Master's programmes.
The TESOL Scholarship is open to new international (excluding UK & RoI) entrants on the first year of an MA TESOL, commencing September 2025.
Hypixel Studios are generously supporting one student entering the first year of the BSc Game Design and Development course in September 2025.
The successful scholar will receive a £9,000 scholarship in support of their studies.
This scholarship will provide an additional avenue of support to undergraduate students as they prepare to enter the workforce and develop their careers.
Financial assistance for a limited number of eligible applicants who successfully obtain a place to study on the Graduate Entry Medicine programme (MBBS).
Learn more about the Ulster University Gaelic Players Association Scholarships.
Formerly known as the Elite Athlete Entry Scheme, it is designed to assist talented young sports performers in gaining access to a quality education at Ulster University whilst attaining success at the highest levels within their chosen sport.
Open to all international students (excluding those from the UK and RoI) studying a full-time programme at one of our Northern Ireland campuses.
Every effort is made to provide up-to-date details regarding the scholarship programmes listed on this page.
However, please be aware that final details of the eligibility, application and selection process for each of the scholarships will be provided at the time when the individual programmes open for applications.
Please read the application forms and associated information in detail at that time.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/postgradfocus:
Whether you are an individual or business looking to go to the next level, Ulster University is here to support your ambitions with our flexible range of modular courses, short, CPD and masters options.
We can work with you to achieve your immediate goals and deliver long-term sustainable growth.
We understand that “Return on investment” can mean value for money, time commitments, staff engagement and immediate application of expertise to your business or career progression.
Get ahead with these courses providing Northern Ireland's most in demand expertise.
Get the expertise to transform construction.
MSc
Get the expertise to transform your marketing and business.
Take your creative vision from script to screen with this film production degree.
MA
Get the expertise to transform tourism.
Get the expertise at some of the world's greatest golf courses.
Get the expertise to positively impact public health.
MSc, PGCert, PGDip
Get the expertise to be at the forefront of legal-tech innovation.
LLM, MSc
Get the expertise to revolutionise patient treatment with personalised medicine.
Get the expertise to capture the world.
MFA
Get the expertise to jump-start your IT career.
MSc, PGCert
Get the expertise to start a new career.
Get the expertise to harness technology and business intelligence.
Get the expertise to build sustainable business solutions.
get the expertise with a Masters, Postgraduate Certificate or short course, funded by the Department for the Economy.
Join us on campus to speak to our staff and find out more about our postgraduate programmes.
Explore our full range of courses available full-time, part-time and online.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/application-process:
If you have any queries about the application process do not hesitate to contact us at admissions@ulster.ac.uk
It should take you about 30 minutes to complete the application if you have all required information to hand.
You can visit the Application Checklist to see what information is required or review the key content below.
Don’t worry.
You do not need to complete the application all in one go.
Incomplete applications are stored and you can return to the application.
As you complete each section, the Application Checklist will be updated to update your progress.
When you have completed the application information required, make sure you click Application is Complete to submit your application.
If you need help whilst completing your application, you can contact the Admissions team at admissions@ulster.ac.uk .
There are several courses who have a specific application deadline including PGCE.
These deadlines will be communicated on the programme pages.
For most of our programmes, we recommend that you submit your application no later than 2 weeks prior to the start of the semester.
However, programme places may be limited, or you may need some time to complete the application process, so we recommend that you start the process as early as possible.
If you need help with your application, we are here to provide guidance.
Contact our Admissions Team at admissions@ulster.ac.uk .
Our team are here to help you find the best learning solution for you.
The entry requirements for each programme are dependent upon its subject matter and if you need prior qualifications to study at Postgraduate Level.
In the absence of formal qualifications, we can still consider your application via Accreditation of Prior Experiential Learning or APEL.
You can find entry requirements on the individual course pages of the online prospectus or can discuss further with our Admissions team who can review your experience and how that fits with the entry requirements.
Contact them at admissions@ulster.ac.uk .
You can apply to Ulster directly via the programme pages.
Click the Green Apply Now Button.
You will then be taken to our secure Online Application System and be asked to create a log in and PIN.
Don’t worry if you cannot complete your application in one sitting.
The system saves your information as you go and until you are ready to submit your application.
You will need to fully complete an individual application for each programme.
The first step of each application form is that you will be asked to select the academic year and the specific programme.
If you are applying to multiple programmes because you are unsure which is best for you, please contact the Course Director who can discuss what is the best approach for you.
You can get their contact information in the Contact section on the programme pages.
No worries, we’re here to help.
You will be asked to choose your Application Type .
You will be asked to choose your Admission Term .
The Application is more than an application to the programme.
If you are offered a place, it will provide critical information needed to make arrangements for your admission.
Within the application system, we have a helpful checklist.
All sections must be completed prior to submission.
We will clearly signal which individual items per section are mandatory.
Upon receipt of your application, we will send you a confirmation email usually within the next 2 working days.
It is important that you read the details of this email as we require additional information from you to speed up your application.
This will include details of the programme that you have applied to.
If this is incorrect or you want to change your programme please reply to the email and our Admissions team will make the relevant changes.
You will be asked to upload a PDF of your relevant qualifications and evidence that you meet the English language requirements if you are not a native English speaker.
This is via a basic form.
Once we have this information, we can review your application and determine if you are to receive an offer.
We will send you an email about your application status or you can see its status by visiting the Online Application system.
You can click on the relevant Process Application and see the Application Summary including the Decision.
If a reference check is required, Admissions will contact your referees prior to making an offer.
Congratulations.
Your application has been successful, and you meet the entry requirements for a confirmed place at Ulster University.
Your next step is to confirm your acceptance of this place and you will begin the registration and enrolment process.
Watch your emails for information on how to accept your place.
Congratulations, you have been offered a place subject to meeting certain conditions of your offer.
This will normally be exam results or degree award.
Make sure you carefully review the conditions of your offer.
Once these are met, you can share these details with the Admissions team admissions@ulster.ac.uk .
There are several reasons why universities may decline an applicant, for example if the course is full.
If you want to discuss your decision or explore alternative options please contact admissions@ulster.ac.uk.
You can withdraw your application at any time.
Alternatively, you may want to defer your place to a future academic year.
Our Admissions team are here to help you through the process so do not hesitate to contact us at admissions@ulster.ac.uk.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/support:
You may be returning to education, having to make time around your current job or are moving to a new country or city.
We are here to help you.
Our Student Support Teams are here to help you every step of the way.
Find out how we can help you realise your career ambitions, access financial, wellbeing and disability support.
You can learn more about our campuses including our facilities and accommodation.
If we haven't provided you with all the information you need below, please contact us.
As an Ulster student you can avail of a wide range of services at our award-winning Employability and Graduate Futures team.
You can avail of the following services post-graduation:
If you would like to speak with someone about the services available or for advice about which course best meets your career ambitions contact our team at careers@ulster.ac.uk.
Our Student Success Centre provides a wide range of resources to support your learning.
We offer skill-building workshops, networking opportunities, and inclusion events to enhance your experience.
Access academic and study skills sessions, digital tools, and maths support to boost your progress.
You can also attend pre-induction courses to start your postgraduate journey with confidence.
Find out more about our Student Success Centre.
The Ulster University Student Union is as relevant for our postgraduate students as it is for our undergraduates.
Once you register to study at Ulster, you automatically become a member of the Students Union.
You will benefit from the social and networking aspects including clubs, societies and sports teams but more importantly you can access UUSU for impartial advice and support through the UUSU Advice Bureau.
If you have concerns about your course or want to raise an idea you can reach out to the UUSU Student Representatives.
The UUSU has a representative on every University committee ensuring your voice is always heard.
You can access a range of services to help you with any personal or welfare matters.
Find out more about UUSU .
Our Wellbeing team is always on hand to offer free, professional, confidential and accessible services on all our locations.
We are on hand to provide you with support and advice on:
All our students can access face-to-face confidential counselling support from a trained counsellor, on or off campus.
We offer a confidential 24/7 counselling helpline.
Find out more about our Student Wellbeing services.
Our AccessAbility team is here to support you or help you to secure the support you need to complete your studies.
We provide a range of support or recommendations based on your specific needs.
Examples of support available are:
Learn more about our AccessAbility services for new students.
You can alert us via your application that you will need some assistance or contact our team at studentwellbeing@ulster.ac.uk .
If you are from Northern Ireland, you may be eligible for a Disabled Students’ Allowance .
This is additional funding to help students with extra essential costs as a direct result of a disability.
How much you get depends on your individual needs and not your household income.
You can get help with the cost of:
Find out more including the Disabled Students' Allowance including residency and eligibility requirements.
We have two great ways to help you pay for your studies at Ulster.
Our Wellbeing team will happily provide you with guidance on how best to fund your studies.
Learn more on our Student Money pages or contact the team at studentwellbeing@ulster.ac.uk .
If you have not yet submitted your application:
If you have already submitted your application but have not provided funding details as part of your application:
Fee information is included on the programme pages and Tuition Fees section.
If you have any queries on fees do not hesitate to contact our Tuition Fees Officer at fees@ulster.ac.uk .
If you are an alumnus and are studying a Masters, Postgraduate Diploma or Postgraduate Certificate, you can avail of a 10% fees discount .
Upon confirmation of your offer, the university finance team will contact you to confirm if you are eligible for the discount.
This cannot be used in conjunction with any other discount.
If  you pay the full cost of your fees at enrolment, you will receive a 5% discount.
For more information about discounts, visit our Finance pages .
Alongside access to tuition fee loans and our flexible payment plan, you can access our discretionary fund for additional financial support.
There are 2 funds available to UK/ NI Students and ROI, EU and International students, respectively.
Find out more about Financial Support.
We have a wide range of scholarships available including scholarships for students in financial need.
Search Ulster University Scholarships.
Each location has its own unique identity but has the same dedicated Student Support services, world-class libraries and safe, welcoming accommodation.
Find out more about each of our locations at Ulster University.
Visit our Ulster University Student Guide where you can see the support provided to our students and the key departments who will support you prior and during your studies.
Our Library team are here to help you reach your full potential.
You can access the latest resources to help you with your study  virtually and in-person.
You can access electronic resources, past exam papers, subject guides or reading lists or borrow laptops.
If you are returning to education after some time away, don’t worry our Library team hold a number of training sessions and workshops including how to reference papers.
Learn more about Ulster University Library and Support Services.
Whether you are an athlete or a complete beginner, everyone can benefit from our excellent sporting and gym facilities at affordable student rates.
Choose between unlimited gold membership to pay-as-you-go options.
Our sports centres have it all, including state-of-the-art fitness studios, a wide range of classes and multi-sport indoor and outdoor facilities, all supported by fully trained fitness staff.
Find out about Ulster University Sport Facilities.
Need accommodation whilst you study with us?
Our ResLife team are here to help you find your home away from home.
Our award -winning accommodation is located on or close to our 3 locations.
You can benefit from:
Visit Ulster University Accommodation .
At Ulster University, we're proud to have an alumni network of over 245,000, making an impact in communities, locally and globally.
There are many opportunities available to help you progress your career and a range of benefits and services including:
Be inspired and shape your career with help from an Ulster graduate mentor.
The Alumni Mentoring Programme connect students  and alumni with Ulster graduates to receive one-to-one support and guidance with careers aspiration and professional development
If you are returning to study after gaining extensive experience in industry you can register as a mentor and share you knowledge and experience to nurture future talent.
Visit our Alumni pages to learn more.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/student/wellbeing/disability/accessability:
The AccessAbility Advisers within the Student Wellbeing team provide support and guidance for all current and prospective students with a diagnosed disability or long term medical condition who choose to study at Ulster University.
Students with disabilities and additional study needs are entitled to support and disclosing your disability to us means we can provide support that will enable you and help you achieve your academic goals.
Our services are confidential and free.
You can access support from our team in three steps:
You can also contact the team to find out more about Dyslexia assessment .
Learn more about the support that is available to students with a disability.
Assistive Technology is the term used for specialist equipment or computer software, which allows you to increase the quality and consistency of your work.
Parent/carers can have a huge impact on students, find out how you can help.
Find out more information about applying for Disability Student Allowance.
In order to help you we need evidence of your disability, read more about the information we need.
Information regarding Personal Emergency Evacuation Plan (PEEP) on campus to assist with safe egress for students that require assistance.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/stories:
Find out how they managed studying whilst working, the support available to them and how their courses and experiences are already benefitting their careers.
MBA, MSc International Event Management
PGCert Professional Practice
MSc Digital Marketing Communication & Leadership
MSc Computer Science
MSc Executive MBA
Beverley McCormick, MSc Education with Specialisms graduate.
Gavin Andrews, MSc Events Management graduate.
Seamus Power, MSc Health Psychology graduate.
Emma Hughes describes life at Ulster University and how gaining further skills in service improvement has helped her to start...
Simon McGavigan describes life at Ulster University and how postgraduate study has helped him develop further within his career....

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/stories/gary-doherty:
My motivation was to gain fulfilment from the gaining of new knowledge, new achievement to support and add to the life and work experience I had already gained.
It was a big moment for me as no one in my family had ever been to university before me.
I visited one of the campuses and loved the energy, the vibe, the welcome and it felt like my new home.
If you are considering postgraduate study, I would say to you; be committed, be dedicated, be passionate about using the time you are investing in yourself.
You can’t get time back, make it count.
Also remember it’s a marathon and not a sprint, you don’t have to win the race, but you do have to finish.
Keep going.
I worked my studies around being a husband and father, I planned my week in advance, committed to the times I had to be on campus and blocked certain times out in my weekly calendar to focus on study.
It’s easier to do when you are fully committed.
Of course my life has changed since beginning my studies.
I have grown as husband, father and I am now a grandfather at only 45 years of age!
I now have my own business that has turned over 6 figures during a pandemic and we continue to grow.
If you feel you can’t fit study into your busy life, you can.
Ask yourselves how much you need this, how much do you want it and connect with your purpose.
If you desire something enough you will do it, you will find a way.
Time isn’t an excuse for me.
I’m living my future ambitions right now.
I own an empowerment platform, Think Network which includes Public Speaking courses, helping people find their powerful voice and developing this right through to giving them a platform.
I am going to continue growing this globally, serving the world and helping make it a better place through supporting others to be the best versions of themselves.
PG study certainly gave me the rationale and underpinning knowledge behind some of the everyday business practices I conduct today.
I have gained communication skills and the ability to articulate clearly, concisely, and professionally.
My ability to influence others and really step into that thought leading space I am in now, was born from my time in PG study.
I have kept in touch with many people from my time at Ulster University, with both colleagues and lecturers alike.
Being part of the Ulster University Alumni is very special indeed.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/stories/julia-nikolaus:
I decided to take up Postgraduate studies to expand my skill set and to enhance my employability for the future.
The skills learned during my Postgraduate studies (GIS and Remote Sensing) also hugely benefit my current position.
I tried to set an hour or two aside each day to work on the tutorials continuously instead of doing it all in a day or two at the weekend.
As my Masters is beneficial to my current work, I have an agreement with my employer that I can dedicate some of my work time to my studies (within reason).
As soon as I realised I was running out of time due to other important work commitments, I would contact my tutor to ask for an extension (I only had to do this once).
The earlier you ask, the better this can be managed.
The support, encouragement and understanding from the tutors was fantastic.
I am still in the same workplace, but I am now able to contribute more confidently to the GIS/Remote Sensing side of the project.
I have only done one year so far and the pandemic has inhibited travel to conferences etc.
But what was inspiring was to see what other students do with the same skill set but in other fields.
In an academic world where collaborations and multi-disciplinary projects are becoming more and more important, this is a great opportunity to get to know other people within the wider field.
Studying on a Postgraduate programme can be a hugely satisfying, beneficial and enjoyable experience.
It is, however, important to manage your time well, start assignments early and don’t be afraid to speak to your tutors as soon as you get stuck, you don’t understand something or if you feel like you may need an extension.
Especially when studying part time, it is a challenge to get the work/life balance right so being organized is key.
Perhaps the most important thing is to really enjoy learning new skills even if they seem a bit daunting to start with, it will all fall into place eventually.
Enhance your career with our dynamic course in Remote Sensing and GIS, designed to boost your professional skills and employability!

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/contact:
Complete the form below and a member of our team will be in touch.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/doctoralcollege/current:
Information for current PhD researchers at Ulster University
Online system for the management of all aspects of postgraduate researcher administration
Contact information for faculty staff.
For information on what and how to submit your thesis.
Read answers to our most frequently asked questions.
We’re keen to make sure PhD Researchers have the best possible experience while studying at Ulster University.
Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES)
Details of how to apply to extend your programme of study

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/doctoralcollege/current/research-studies-guide:
Ulster's Research Studies Guide
The Doctoral College has developed this guide to help postgraduate researchers and their supervisors navigate the various administrative stages of a research degree and to clarify who is responsible for doing what at each stage.
You should be aware that this guide and the related links contain the terms and conditions of your registration.
A general University-wide student guide has also been prepared and this should be referred to for general information and University wide policies.
Subject level handbooks and contact details for Research Directors, Postgraduate Tutors and Admin Support should also be referred to for specific local level guidance on processes and procedures.
Get information on the support available during your studies.
From time to time, you may need to make changes to your programme or inform us of changes to your personal details.
Information for online interview participants.
Information and resources detailing the regulatory aspects of your studies.
PhD Researcher Charter
This timeline details the key milestones and requirements of PhD Researchers at each stage in their PhD Journey.
Guidance document for postgraduate researchers and supervisors on the use of GenAI tools

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/doctoralcollege/current/submitting-your-thesis:
The following pages provide details on the preparation and deposit of your thesis, at both initial submission stage and then for the final thesis post-examination.
For more information on the expected format of thesis and referencing system in your subject area, please refer to your subject Handbook.
As you prepare for your initial submission, please look out for training opportunities through the Researcher Development Programme which will support you in preparing the e-version of your thesis.
The QAA has funded a Collaborative Enhancement Project led by University of South Wales, Coventry University, University of Huddersfield and Sheffield Hallam University to develop a series of videos and resources to help postgraduate researchers prepare for their viva examination.
These resources are not institution-specific and they are free and open to postgraduate researchers from all institutions.
They showcase other postgraduate researchers' real-life experiences and possible viva questions, and are designed to help you shape and develop your preparations, anticipate potential questions and test out possible answers.
The videos should be viewed when you are working towards your research degree viva examination.
You can watch them in any order but it will be more beneficial if you watch them in the weeks leading up to your viva rather than the day before as they could lead to further discussions with your supervisory team if you hear something that you had not thought about before.
PhD Researchers will be required to electronically submit a PDF copy of the thesis for examination.
This should be completed at least one month before the viva date.
If your examiners require a soft-bound copy of your thesis we will email you so that you can arrange for the thesis to be printed and delivered to the Doctoral College.
You should also submit your thesis through TurnitIn plagiarism detection software via Blackboard (under 'Courses' then 'PhD Researcher Turnitin').
Once you have the output report from TurnitIn, please upload both this and your PDF thesis into the 'Submissions and Examinations' tab on PhD Manager .
The minimum period of registration for full-time researchers is two and a half years and for part-time researchers it is four years.
If you plan to submit before your normal registration period is up (e.g.
three years for full-time and six years for part-time), you may apply for early submission.
This requires your supervisory team to make a statement to the effect that your work, in their opinion, meets the levels of effort and contribution to knowledge expected of a PhD thesis.
They may wish to include rationale as to why you have managed to submit earlier than the period stipulated.
This case will be reviewed by the Doctoral College and, if approved, your viva preparations will be progressed.
If your viva outcome required submission of minor amendments to the satisfaction of the internal examiner, you should submit the revised version via PhD Manager to have the corrections formally approved.
You may liaise with the internal examiner to determine whether tracked changes or another method of highlighting the amendments are helpful.
Note that this workflow needs to be approved BEFORE submitting your final version of your thesis.
Once the Board of Examiners is satisfied that you have met the requirements of the award and any amendments have been approved by the Internal Examiner, you should submit, on PhD Manager, one final electronic version, in PDF format.
Deadlines for submission of final thesis and associated workflows will be displayed on the PhD Manager noticeboard as soon as they are available.
Therefore, you should ensure that both you and your supervisors have completed all parts of the Deposit Samples workflow and that your supervisors have completed the Reassignment of Intellectual Property Rights Workflow .
Please allow sufficient time for supervisors to complete this aspect of the submission.
You can view the progress of each by clicking into the sections on PhD Manager .
Again, there are guides available in PhD Manager to help you through this process.
When uploading your final thesis please ensure it is labelled as YearSurnameInitialDegree, e.g.
2021BloggsJPhD.
On submission of your thesis for examination, you will be eligible to sign up for the Researchers Pool, which the University will use to use to fill short-term Research Assistant positions.
The purpose in establishing this pool is mainly to enhance the employability of PhD researchers who have recently been awarded a PhD or submitted their thesis for examination.
There may be a valid reason why you need to restrict access or put a hold on the publication of your thesis, either to both paper and electronic versions or just to the e-thesis.
Details on the final submission of your thesis on PhD Manager
At Ulster, Turnitin Originality Software is used for this purpose and PhD Researchers are assigned an area within Blackboard through which they can upload work for submission through the software.
Notes of Guidance for the Presentation of Theses for Research Degrees

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/doctoralcollege/rdp:
This programme consists of face to face and online workshops, PhD researcher-led initiatives and personal development activities.
The Researcher Development Programme (RDP) at Ulster is a comprehensive, dynamic and high quality programme aimed at supporting the professional and personal development of our PhD Researchers.
The six pillars of skills development are: Research Skills, Writing Skills, Communication and Engagement, Career Development, Transferable Skills and the PhD Process.
The programme is delivered through workshops, events, online resources and networking opportunities.
It is an exciting and inclusive programme facilitated by Ulster academic staff, external contributors and PhD graduates from Ulster.
Annual showcase and celebration of excellence in PhD Research.
3MT® is an academic competition that challenges PhD Researchers to describe their research and its significance, in non-specialist language to...
Focused Writing Sessions for PhD Researchers – All Welcome!
Encouraging participation, creativity and leadership among our PhD Researcher community – with the intention of enhancing and complementing the Researcher...
Life Beyond the PhD is a series of one hour seminars hosted by the Doctoral College in partnership with each of the Faculties.
...
An opportunity for all PhD Researchers to get together for a coffee/tea and a chat.
Induction for new PhD Researchers is an essential part of your PhD journey.
Induction normally takes place each September.
PhD Researchers are encouraged to undertake teaching training while undertaking their PhD.
The Introduction to Teaching and Learning for Postgraduate Teaching Assistants and the First Steps to Learning and Teaching in Higher Education is run by the Centre for Professional Practice Enhancement and is open to all PhD Researchers.
For any questions or advice please contact us.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/doctoralcollege/current/pres:
To make sure PhD Researchers have the best possible experience while studying at Ulster University we need to know what you think we are doing well and if we can do anything better.
The PRES runs every other year, from mid March to mid May, with the 2025 survey having just closed.
The outcomes of the 2025 survey are now available and we are delighted to note that we have been ranked 2nd in the UK for overall satisfaction!
We will be carefully reviewing the feedback from the survey to further improve our processes  and will monitor any actions through the Doctoral College Board and PhD Researcher Forum meetings.
We're proud to announce that the 2025 results for PRES are now available, and Ulster University had another great year.
Ulster ranked 2nd in the UK for overall PhD researcher satisfaction , with a participation rate of 84% (compared to a national average of 33%).
Ulster also ranked 1st in the UK for Support and were above average in every other performance indicator.
Other highlights:
(Source: Higher Education Academy, July 2025)
The Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES) is a national survey conducted by institutions across the UK and globally, and it is the only way for Ulster to compare how we are doing with other institutions.
The Postgraduate Research Experience Survey is your chance to share your thoughts and experiences about your research degree at Ulster.
The results help Ulster compare how we are doing with other institutions, to make changes that will improve what we do in the future and to keep doing the things that you value.
This will help improve the experience of PhD Researchers like you.
PRES concentrates on the following aspects of your research degree:
Your feedback is important.
Over 100 universities and colleges take part in the UK and globally.
This means we can compare your experience against similar postgraduates at other institutions to see if we are supporting your learning as we should.
We use the findings to improve the learning experience for future PhD Researchers.
Your survey response is confidential to the team processing the results and no reporting outside of this team will identify any individual.
Any results communicated to academic staff will be anonymised.
The survey asks that any comments you make should not identify yourself or any specific members of staff.
If you do have any issues that need resolved, please contact either your Research Director or the Doctoral College team at pgr@ulster.ac.uk outside the survey.
The survey runs from March to May every other year.
The next survey period will be March to May 2025.
You will receive an email with a personalised link to the questionnaire when PRES launches.
Simply click on the link in the email and complete the online form.
It takes around 15 minutes to complete.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/doctoralcollege/whats-on:
Check out the upcoming events for PhD researchers.
Researcher Development Programme for PhD Researchers: a comprehensive training and development programme delivered in person and online.
Over 150 workshops each year.
Writing productivity sessions for PhD Researcher are organised throughout the calendar year.
We are part of a Collaborative Writing Retreat Partnership alongside other universities including Imperial College London, King’s College London, Queen Mary University London, University of Cambridge, University of Glasgow, University of Surrey, University of York and University of Bristol.
This partnership offers online writing sessions to all PGRs and research staff across all the institutions listed.
You can book these on PhD Manager.
The Doctoral College hosts regular Writing Retreats on campus and details are on PhD Manager and dates are promoted in the Weekly Update email.
For more information contact Lisa Thompson, l.thompson@ulster.ac.uk
Life Beyond the PhD is a series of one hour seminars hosted by the Doctoral College in partnership with each of the Faculties.
Monthly Coffee Mornings on each campus, where all PhD Researchers are invited to come together and catch up.
The Festival of PhD Research is an annual event for PhD Researchers to celebrate and showcase their work in a supportive and encouraging environment.
It includes keynote speakers, PhD presentations and posters, the 3MT® competition, Bake your PhD competition and prizes for Best Presentation and Best Poster.
We were delighted to host the Three Minute Thesis (3MT®) competition at Ulster for the eighth year running.
The live 3MT® Final took place on Thursday 19 June at the Belfast campus.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/doctoralcollege/about:
A World-Class Research Environment
The Ulster University Doctoral College aims to:
To facilitate interdisciplinary interactions and to help you engage with other researchers, the Doctoral College has established dedicated social spaces for you on each campus:
The Ulster University Doctoral College is a rich, vibrant research environment with outstanding resources, facilities, training and support for PhD researchers and early career researchers.
We offer a wide range of postgraduate opportunities, across all disciplines, including fully funded scholarship options available for both home and international students.
Our PhD researchers benefit from a bespoke Researcher Development Programme designed to support the development of both research capacity and professional transferable skills.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/doctoralcollege/current/handbooks-and-policies/handbook/support/contacts:
Handbooks and contact information for PhD researchers at Ulster University.
Richmond Amponsah
Jonathon McLaughlin
Jane Leonard
Welcome to the Ulster University Business School.
We hope you will find your time as a researcher in the Faculty enjoyable and fulfilling.
Welcome to Law at Ulster, comprising the School of Law, the Transitional Justice Institute, the Ulster University Law Clinic and the Legal Innovation Centre.
Welcome to the Belfast School of Architecture and the Built Environment.
Welcome to your PhD studies in Communication, Media, and Cultural Studies.
Welcome to the School of Computing at Belfast.
Welcome to the School of Computing, Engineering and Intelligent Systems based on the Derry~Londonderry campus.
Welcome to the School of Psychology.
Welcome to your PhD studies in History.
Welcome to the School of Sport based on the Belfast campus.
Welcome to the Nursing and Health research area.
Welcome to the School of Medicine,
Faculty of Life and Health Sciences,
based on the Derry~Londonderry campus.
We hope you will find your time as a researcher
in the Faculty enjoyable and fulfilling.
Welcome to the School of English,
Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences,
based on the Coleraine campus.
Welcome to the School of Biomedical Sciences research area.
Welcome to the School of Modern Languages and Linguistics,
Faculty of Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences.
Welcome to the School of Engineering,
Faculty of Computing, Engineering and the Built Environment,
based on the Belfast campus.
Welcome to the Belfast School of Art,
Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences,
based on the Belfast campus.
Welcome to the School of Education,
Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences,
based on the Coleraine campus.
Welcome to your PhD studies in music, drama, film or heritage/museum studies.
We are a vibrant multidisciplinary and interdisciplinary unit of approximately 25 PhDs, covering the subject areas above, in addition to interdisciplinary topics which engage with other subject areas, including Irish, nursing, education, computing and peace and conflict studies.
Welcome to the School of Applied Social Sciences (the Social Work and Social Policy Unit of Assessment).
We hope that you will find your time as a researcher at Ulster interesting and enjoyable on both a personal and academic level.
Welcome to the School of Geography and Environmental Sciences,
based on the Coleraine campus.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/doctoralcollege/current/faqs:
If you want to make changes to your study, apply for an extension or a leave of absence, please login to PhD Manager using your usual computer login details and make your request.
You can find comprehensive guides in PhD Manager- Guides .
If you experience health, family or other problems that make it difficult for you to continue working on your research project, you may need to consider applying for a Leave of Absence (LOA).
Postgraduate researchers can be granted an LOA for a maximum of one year.
If you are funded, your maintenance allowance will normally be suspended during any LOA.
An LOA is not permitted for full-time postgraduate researchers if the main reason is to take up paid employment.
Self-funded postgraduate researchers are not charged fees during a period of LOA.
Retrospective requests for an LOA will not be approved.
If you receive funding, please read the terms and conditions of your award for Department for the Economy (DfE) funding or Vice-Chancellor's Research Scholarships (VCRS) funding as appropriate.
Under these awards Postgraduate researchers are normally entitled to 13 weeks of funded leave for medical reasons, and 6 months of funded leave for maternity leave.
Other periods of paid leave may be available.
For other awards please go to Fees and Funding and follow the appropriate links to check your funder’s terms and conditions to see if you are entitled to any funding during an LOA (e.g.
for illness or maternity leave).
To request an LOA submit your request on PhD Manager in advance of the start date of the LOA.
You may be asked to provide medical or other evidence to support your request.
If your application is granted, your expected submission date will be amended accordingly.
Student visa holders should check with the Doctoral College if there may be implications for their visa before submitting an LOA request.
Normally the maximum period of LOA for Student visa holders is 60 days.
Yes, you can directly access stipend pay notification slips and P60s through the University’s portal.
This can be useful if you need to prove your income and tax status.
View guidance on stipend pay notification slips and P60s
For the purposes of National Insurance and income tax, postgraduate researchers are considered students; they are not employed by the University.
Stipends are not taxable and postgraduate researchers are not required to pay National Insurance Contributions.
However, if a postgraduate researcher undertakes any work for the University (e.g.
teaching or demonstrating) or outside the University, this will be considered employment and will be subject to Tax and National Insurance Contributions.
Postgraduate researchers are on campus year-round, including over the summer.
You have an allocation of 40 days annual leave per academic year.
This includes days when the University is closed (see the Academic Calendar ), leaving 26 ‘floating days’ of annual leave that can be taken in agreement with your supervisor.
Please request annual leave through the Absence section of your project record on PhD Manager.
No, the Doctoral College distributes funding to Faculties, who are responsible for the research training and support of postgraduate researchers.
In the first instance you should discuss this with your supervisors, who will be able to advise you and read a draft submission.
If the submission is accepted, you will need to ask the relevant Research Director (your supervisor will advise, or see the list of Faculty Contacts) for prior approval.
Before you do this, you will need to estimate the full costs of attendance (including registration, travel, accommodation and any other foreseeable expenses) and include brief details and a total amount when you email the request.
If your request is for more than £1000 you will also need to provide a business case outlining the purpose of the trip, the expected benefits, the estimated costs, and justification for the trip.
Please submit prior approvals through the Claimant Portal .
The process is straightforward but please ensure that estimated costs are likely to cover actual expenditure, as you may not be able to claim the full amount if you have underestimated it.
While you are away, ensure that you keep original receipts for claiming back expenses because the Finance department does not accept bank or credit card statements.
It is possible to ask for an advance payment of part of the total amount if you would find it difficult to pay expenses out of pocket.
You will need to gather all your receipts and complete an expenses form through the Claimant Portal .
Only receipted expenses can be claimed back.
Payment may take a few weeks.
It is advisable that you keep receipts until you receive your expenses payment.
You will need to complete the relevant form on PhD Manager to make a change request for a period of study away.
This should include a risk assessment if necessary, details for your trip and a section for supervisors to confirm how supervision will be maintained during your period away from the University.
You also need to obtain details of the University's travel insurance policy.
If you will be working at another organisation during your trip, you should also ask for confirmation that they have insurance cover in place for any damages or injuries arising from negligence of another party.
The Researcher Development Programme (RDP) at Ulster is an integral part of your programme.
The RDP offers a suite of workshops, specialist skills sessions, online courses and personal development planning activities which will provide you with opportunities to gain the experience and skills required to be a competent and professional researcher.
You can find upcoming events and sessions and make bookings in the "Events/Workshops" section of PhD Manager .
Discuss this with your supervisors who will help you to find out if your Faculty can provide the training, or may wish to support you to access essential external training.
The Doctoral College also encourages student-led training initiatives with an annual competition for funding to run specific events.
Demonstrating Categories
There are three categories of demonstrating and for some of the categories a multiplier is applied to compensate for preparation time.
The table below includes details of the three categories and the rates of pay (effective from 1 November 2022).
You must agree the category of demonstrating with your Head of School prior to undertaking the work.
Please use the Claimant Portal to claim payments.
Your area's Postgraduate Tutor or admin staff can provide user guidelines for the portal.
The University Research Integrity page includes links to relevant policies.
To access the specific guidance and forms used to apply for ethical approval you will need to sign into the portal.
Your supervisor, Postgraduate Tutor or Research Director can direct you to the relevant Committee which will consider your application for ethical approval.
The information on the University Research Integrity pages includes details on how to apply to ORECNI but you may also wish to look at the ORECNI website for additional advice on specific procedures .
The Health and Social Care Research and Development IRAS system is used to apply for ethical approvals and other permission to conduct research within health and social care and other regulated settings in the UK.
The method of booking in applications for the IRAS system has moved online , replacing the Central Booking service telephone line.
Applicants can access the new online booking service via IRAS to book their application for review.
For help and support with the new system please phone 0207 104 8008 between 8.30am and 4.30pm Monday to Friday.
Applicants making contact about fast-track COVID-19 studies should continue to follow HSC R&D current guidance or email fast.track@hra.nhs.uk.
DO NOT use the online booking service.
Similarly, in this first stage of release, Combined Ways of Working (CWoW) applicants and phase I applicants who currently make use of direct booking with a member of staff, should continue to use existing routes.
If you need further guidance please contact Elaine Bell ( e.bell2@ulster.ac.uk ) in the University’s Research Governance Office.
You might find some aspects of postgraduate research challenging from time to time.
At Ulster we aim to ensure that you are supported.
Your immediate sources of support are your supervisors and your peers, and the Doctoral College team is also available at pgr@ulster.ac.uk.
However, you also have the Researcher Development Programme , networks, coffee mornings, and social events - see the What’s On page for more info.
Your Faculty also hosts other events.
Postgraduate researchers are welcome to visit any of the Docs at each of the campuses where you can meet other postgraduate researchers socially, and we have a PhD Researcher Forum with representatives from each campus.
Each campus has a Doctoral Society representing postgraduate researchers across a variety of disciplines: Coleraine , Derry/Londonderry and Belfast .
In addition, within each Faculty or School there will be a range of seminars, a Research Director, a Postgraduate Tutor and various research groups that you can link up with.
You will also find the Doctoral College Research Studies Guide and your subject area Handbook useful .
Don't forget to follow the Doctoral College on Instagram and visit our YouTube channel .
If you have any problems in finding sources of support, please contact your Head of Doctoral College, Postgraduate Tutor or Research Director for advice.
In a word, professionally.
Clearly this means being punctual (whether for meetings or in submitting written work), respectful etc.
and it also means taking responsibility and attempting to find a resolution if things are not going well.
Supervisors are often busy and meetings are therefore an important issue for postgraduate researchers who want to make the most of the time with their supervisors.
Where difficulties arise, these are often a result of the supervisors and postgraduate researcher having different expectations and the postgraduate researcher feeling they cannot take a lead in resolving an issue.
It is important to realise that it is not disrespectful to ‘manage up’, in fact, it is a useful skill to learn.
Simply taking the initiative and asking to discuss the format of meetings, keeping records of meetings, asking for dates on which feedback can be expected (and following up with a polite email if it does not appear) should not offend your supervisors, provided it is done professionally.
First, consider what ‘difficult’ means.
If a supervisor does not attend meetings or fails to provide feedback, consider managing up in the first instance.
Simple measures, such as asking when you can expect to receive feedback, are often effective.
The sooner you act, the better as if these issues are not addressed they may delay your progress.
If interpersonal relations continue to be difficult (perhaps you find the supervisor rude or consider them to be harassing you; see University Policy and Procedures on Dignity at Work and Study ), you may want to discuss with the other supervisor(s), or with your Postgraduate Tutor, Research Director or Head of Doctoral College.
The University also has in place Harassment Advisers who can support you, provide you with information and explain courses of action open to you.
All advice is confidential and no action will be taken without your agreement.
You may wish to discuss the situation with your supervisors or Postgraduate Tutor, and again the University Policy and Procedures on Dignity at Work and Study provides relevant information.
The University has in place Harassment Advisers who can support you in deciding what if anything you want to do in the particular circumstances.
All advice is fully confidential and no action will be taken on your behalf without your agreement.
The Student Wellbeing website is very comprehensive and outlines support resources available to you.
There are sections on Health and Wellbeing (including physical and mental health, academic support) and Money advice (including dealing with debt and crisis funds available).
The range of support is impressive and feedback from PhD researchers who have accessed support is extremely positive.
AccessAbility provides a wide range of support to those postgraduate researchers who disclose and provide medical evidence of a disability or long-term medical condition.
They will provide you with individual information on the support available to you.
Support ranges from assistive technologies to one-to-one support and services are free.
AccessAbility Advisers can make reasonable adjustment recommendations (RARs) based on your specific needs and communicate them to the relevant subject units, departments and professional services within the university to ensure that your needs are met.
Postgraduate researchers are encouraged to contact AccessAbility for a RAR early in your research studies or even before you start so you can benefit from support being in place as early as possible.
If you had a RAR for any previous study at Ulster, you will still need to make an appointment for an RAR with Accessibility for your postgraduate research studies.
You're also encouraged to share any disabilities or support needs with your supervisor and Postgraduate Tutor.
While Residential Services does attempt to place all postgraduate researchers in suitable accommodation, this is not always possible for a variety of reasons.
If your accommodation is unsuitable, you should contact the relevant accommodation officer for your campus, explain the issue and they will work with you to try to resolve the problem.
You should be aware that you are bound by the terms of your lease so if you move off campus before the end of the lease you will be liable to pay the outstanding amount.
Ulster has provides a range of support for International students , including International Experience Officers who may be able to advise you.
The Students' Union supports a number of clubs and societies which may interest you and also provides a range of support services as well as offering volunteer opportunities.
The Sports Union also has a busy calendar of events and activities.
In addition, on each campus the Doc is available for all PhD researchers and their supervisors to socialise and get to know each other, and the Doctoral College organises regular monthly coffee mornings, lunchtime get-togethers, and a range of training and social events.
For more details please see the Doctoral College What’s On page.
Ulster's Centre for English Language Teaching ( CELT ) provides a range of support sessions during term time for international postgraduate researchers.
These are free of charge and you can attend a range of modules and/or avail of individual academic consultations.
Ulster also currently subscribes to Studiosity , an online service which provides speedy feedback on written work.
The Doctoral College also encourages self-organised study groups which can provide excellent peer support.
Access People XD – Guide to access payslips

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/scienceshop:
The Science Shop provides community and voluntary groups across Northern Ireland with access to research and information resources at the University.
Community partners put forward projects that Ulster students undertake as course work.
The Science Shop is a community-engaged research and learning resource for community and voluntary partners across Northern Ireland....
Contact the Science Shop.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/doctoralcollege/supervisors:
Information for supervisors
Providing supervisors with resources and guidance to facilitate the development of a successful PhD Researcher/Supervisor relationship.
PhD Supervisors at Ulster have access to training sessions with the Doctoral College, both for those new to supervision and those who are more established.
This programme consists of workshops, specialist skills sessions, online courses, PhD researcher initiatives and personal development activities
The University has prepared several publications, handbooks and documents to help guide research students through their degree programmes.
Information on the various forms and processes involved with research study at Ulster
Sources of guidance and available resources for supervisors
This page will provide guidance for supervisors, the examination panels, administrative staff and researchers on submission and examination of the theses for research degrees.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/doctoralcollege/supervisors/supervisor-guidance-and-resources:
Our supervisors provide the primary source of support for our PhD researchers and this relationship will be critical in ensuring a positive PhD researcher experience and timely completion.
As the Doctoral College revises and strengthens the consistency of processes, supervisors need to be able to readily identify their roles and responsibilities in contributing to the relevant stages of the PhD researcher's journey from application to graduation.
A guide for supervisors supporting PhD researchers
Detailing key supervisory responsibilities at each stage in the PhD Researcher's journey.
How can supervisors help influence the outcomes of the PRES and increase PhD Researcher satisfaction levels?
Key to the success of the PhD project will be the PhD Researcher/Supervisor relationship.
Guidance on who may participate in a supervisory team
Whether a PhD researcher is DfE or university funded, funded by a research grant or self-funding, supervisors are obliged to assess progress on an ongoing basis.
Guidance on drawing up contracts for both collaborative and joint degree programmes.
This Code of Practice aims to protect all parties involved in the supervisor/researcher relationship and ensure consistent, high quality supervision is available to all researchers

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/doctoralcollege/supervisors/examination-guidance:
This page will provide guidance for the examination panels, supervisors and researchers on the submission and examination of the final theses for research degrees.
There are comprehensive guides for each role in the 'Guides' section on PhD Manager .
Information for Internal Examiners of Research Degrees including what to expect and how to use PhD Manager
Information for External examiners of research degrees at Ulster including what to expect and a comprehensive guide on how to use PhD Manager.
Information for the Chair of a Research Examination including what to expect and how to use PhD Manager.
Guidance for Co-Ordinators of Research Degree Examinations.
Information for Supervisors who are arranging the examinations for their Researchers including detailed guidance on the format of the viva and how to use PhD Manager.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/doctoralcollege/supervisors/training-and-events:
The Doctoral College is pleased to share details of forthcoming workshops as part of the PhD Supervisor Development Programme at Ulster.
These workshops have been put in place to support supervisors in their role, to share good practice and provide relevant updates from the Doctoral College.
The workshops will take place online to maximise accessibility and to encourage cross-campus and cross-disciplinary participation.
There will also be opportunities for PhD Supervisors to meet informally on campus as part of new PhD Supervisor Network – a community of practice – to support the practice and development of PhD Supervision at Ulster.
The Supervisor Development Programme is available to all academic staff at Ulster.
It covers a range of skills for both new and established supervisors.
Induction for PhD Supervisors Mandatory for New PhD Supervisors Open to prospective PhD Supervisors Refresher for current PhD Supervisors
Chairing / Examining a PhD Viva Heads of Doctoral College
Library Support of the PhD Researcher: A Guide for Supervisors Library Support Team
Open Access and Copyright Essentials for Supervisors Library Support Team
The PhD Supervisor Network is a new community of practice at Ulster which aims to provide informal opportunities for PhD Supervisors to meet on campus to reflect and share experiences on focused themes relevant to PhD Supervision.
For further details please contact Professor Alison Gallagher am.gallagher@ulster.ac.uk.
The Supervisor Network Events will be scheduled for the new year academic year soon.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/doctoralcollege/phd-manager:
PhD Manager is the online tool used by PhD Researchers, supervisors, examiners, Research Directors, Postgraduate Tutors and administrative staff to manage all PhD related administration.
The system workflows ensure approvals for any requests are dealt with by the appropriate person and required actions will be added to the approvers task list.
PhD Researchers are able to see which stage of approval their request is sitting and to whom the task has been assigned.
This transparency allows for a gentle 'nudge' to ensure requests are approved in a timely manner.
The system sends out auto-generated approval/outcome notifications to all relevant parties.
Research Directors, Postgraduate Tutors and the Doctoral College team will use the reporting suite within PhD Manager to track outstanding deadlines.
To access the system, simply use the link below and enter your usual computer login details.
To help you navigate around the system you will find comprehensive guides in the PhD Manager- Guides section .
If you have difficulties please contact us .

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/doctoralcollege/postgraduate-research/apply/international-students:
If you are successful in obtaining admission as an international PhD Researcher, you will need to ensure that you have a visa that allows you to study in the UK.
The University welcomes applications from international applicants and thrives on the diversity that our international community bring to the University.
The application process is the same for all applicants, except that you need to ensure that you obtain the right visa to come to Northern Ireland to study.
We can help you with this process and the following links below should provide more information.
You may also wish to apply for a PhD under the Framework for Distance Research Study , which allows you to remain in your home country - this option does not require you to obtain a visa for study.
Our entry requirements for research degree programmes state that you should hold or expect to hold the equivalent of a First or Upper Second Class Honours degree in a relevant subject area.
The Doctoral College will assess how your international qualifications  compare to UK qualifications using UKENIC.
It is therefore important that you submit your degree certificates and transcripts in both the original language and in translation.
In terms of English language proficiency, international students who require a Student visa will need to take a UK Home Office approved Secure English Language Test (SELT).
The two approved providers are Trinity College London and IELTS (Academic).
If you have studied at a UK institution (on a UK campus) or are from a majority English speaking country, as per the Home Office’s list , you are exempt from having to provide this evidence.
If you are successful in your application for admission, the University will issue you with a CAS (Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies) which will allow you to apply for a Student visa.
International applicants who are successful in being offered self-funded admission onto research studies at Ulster University will be required to do the following before any visa documentation can be issued:
Further details on acceptable forms of evidence and the amount of money you are required to hold in your account can be found on the UKCISA website.
Guidance on ATAS

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/doctoralcollege/postgraduate-research/apply/english-language-requirements:
All applicants to the University, from both the UK and overseas, are required to show evidence of a minimum English language level in order to be accepted on to one of our courses.
Applicants from the UK and Ireland may provide one of the tests and qualifications listed below:
Applicants from outside the UK and Ireland may undertake any of the wide range of English language examinations and tests that we accept at Ulster.
Alternatively,  international applicants who have completed  a campus-based Bachelors or Masters degree from a UK university or from a recognised university in a Majority English-Speaking Country may be exempt from having to provide further evidence of their English language proficiency.
Such qualifications will be assessed upon submission of a complete application.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/doctoralcollege/postgraduate-research/apply/exchange:
Applicants should first approach individual departments and supervisors at Ulster with details of their current programme of research including their proposed project.
It is essential that students make contact with departments/supervisors before submitting an application.
Once it has been established that the project is viable and supervision is available at Ulster, the applicant should submit an application for Exchange/ Occasional study to Ulster following standard procedure.
Details about how to apply can be found in How to Apply .
To be eligible for admission as an Exchange/Occasional student at Ulster applicants must meet the following requirements:
Where the application is supported by an externally funded programme, e.g.
The British Council, the Ulster supervisor should submit the full contract details to Research Grants and Contracts for processing as a standard external grant.
If the exchange is to be funded through a scholarship won by the applicant, the scholarship details should be uploaded onto the Admissions System as part of the application process.
If Faculty wish the tuition fees to be waived/reduced they should arrange this through the normal fee-waiver/reduction process.
They can obtain details of the process from their Faculty DFO.
Applicants who wish to attend at Ulster as part of an occasional exchange which does not have a formal contract as above; an agreement between the University and the applicant’s home institution is required.
If the student’s attendance at Ulster is for less than 6 months, an agreement signed by the supervisors at each institution and endorsed by the relevant faculty at Ulster is sufficient.
This agreement should include details of the project, what work the student will do at Ulster, the dates of attendance and the name and address of the student’s home institution and home supervisor(s) together with the names and faculty location of the Ulster supervisor(s).
If the student’s attendance at Ulster is for more than six months for International students and more than one year for UK and ROI students, a formal agreement between Ulster and the student’s home institution is required.
Following faculty consideration of the application and if successful, a formal letter of offer will be issued; for international applicants who wish to attend at Ulster for more than 6 months a preliminary offer with details of visa requirements will precede the formal offer.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/doctoralcollege/postgraduate-research/apply/transfer:
Applications from students currently registered or previously registered at another institution.
By exception, the University accepts applications from students who have completed part of their PhD elsewhere and who wish to continue with the same study to completion at Ulster; however, this is subject to formal consideration and approval through the University admissions processes.
To facilitate this consideration, in addition to the standard application requirements (details available here ), the following documents must also be supplied:
Upon receipt of the application, the faculty concerned will also be required to make an assessment of the candidate’s work to date including a formal interview.
A report on the candidate’s progress on the current study together with a recommendation regarding admission and where admission is recommended into which year of the Ulster PhD programme the candidate should be registered will be agreed by the Board of the Faculty.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/doctoralcollege/postgraduate-research/apply/students-with-special-needs:
The University welcomes applications from persons with disabilities.
It is University policy to assess applications from disabled persons using the academic criteria which apply to all candidates.
In addition, the following matters are taken into consideration:
As the University is committed to providing a suitable learning environment for all students, potential candidates are encouraged to visit the University to meet staff from Student Affairs and the appropriate faculties before submitting an application.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/doctoralcollege/postgraduate-research/apply/re-admission:
If your registration lapsed, or you withdrew from your studies, you may apply to be re-admitted to complete your programme.
To do this, you must apply for re-admission in writing (an email is acceptable), your application should be sent to the Doctoral College ( pgr@ulster.ac.uk ) and must include:
Re-admission can take two forms, either short-term re-admission to allow submission (less than 1 year) or re-admission onto the regular programme (up to 3 or 6 years depending on mode of study)
Short-term re-admission comes with a fee of £2,545 and longer-term admission incurs normal yearly fees.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/doctoralcollege/postgraduate-research/doctoral-partnerships:
Ulster University partners with a range of institutions and industry leaders to provide collaborative opportunities for PhD Research in Northern Ireland and internationally.
Ulster University offers a range of fully funded, collaborative Doctoral Programmes, often in partnership with other universities where Ulster University may serve as the lead or consortium partner.
These programmes can also be delivered in collaboration with external organisations, including industry, business, government, and the third sector.
Funding for these programmes is provided by Research Councils under UK Research & Innovation (UKRI), Horizon Europe, and other collaborative arrangements.
In addition to accessing all the benefits that registration on a research degree programme at Ulster has to offer, these collaborative awards offer the additional benefits of working with an Industry partner or spending time with researchers at partner institutions via placement options.
If you're a business or a not-for-profit organisation interested in fully or partially sponsoring a jointly developed PhD project, feel free to get in touch.
The CDP Awards offer a unique opportunity to research real-life questions in a partnership with a collaborative partner, such as industry, business, government or charity.
As a part of the programmes, the researchers are expected to spend up to 3 months at the partner’s institution.
On top of the standard stipend, the researchers are rewarded with additional, tax-free top-up payments for the duration of the programme.
These awards are only eligible to HOME/ROI candidates only.
Currently advertised projects are available to view on our PhD Finder.
Ulster University hosts a variety of UKRI-funded Doctoral Landscape and Doctoral Focal Awards that support ambitious, interdisciplinary PhD research addressing major societal and global challenges.
These prestigious awards offer fully funded studentships, access to world-class training, and opportunities to collaborate with leading academic, industry, and civic partners.
As a UKRI-funded doctoral researcher, you’ll be part of a vibrant cohort of like-minded students, fostering a strong sense of community, peer support, and shared learning.
This cohort-based approach enhances your doctoral experience through collaborative events, cross-disciplinary engagement, and tailored development activities.
Ulster University is a proud partner in Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions (MSCA) Doctoral Networks—prestigious, EU-funded programmes that support high-quality doctoral training across Europe and beyond.
These networks bring together leading universities, research institutes, and industry partners to train a new generation of researchers through international, interdisciplinary, and intersectoral collaboration.
MSCA doctoral candidates work on cutting-edge projects that address global challenges.
You’ll benefit from excellent supervision, mobility opportunities, and a comprehensive programme of training in both academic and transferable skills.
MSCA Doctoral Networks provide a unique platform to build your research career in a dynamic, supportive environment—equipping you with the skills, experience, and global connections to thrive in academia, industry, or beyond.
Ulster University, in partnership with Shelton College International, delivers PhD programmes for researchers based in East Asia.
Through the Ulster University PhD Hub @Shelton, students benefit from the University’s research and supervisory excellence, supported by state-of-the-art facilities and comprehensive academic and pastoral care.
This flexible and rigorous research pathway enables students to pursue their doctoral studies in Singapore while being fully integrated into Ulster’s global research community.
Students enrolled in the Doctor of Philosophy programme at the Ulster University PhD Hub @Shelton receive the same academic recognition and award as those undertaking the programme at Ulster University campuses in Northern Ireland.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/doctoralcollege/postgraduate-research/competition:
Ulster's Annual PhD Studentship Competition offers Department for the Economy and Vice-Chancellor's Research scholarships to home and overseas applicants for full-time and part-time study on-campus.
Studentships cover three years of fees, an annual non-taxable maintenance grant of approx.
£20,000, and a Research Training and Support grant of £900 per year.
Applications for PhDs that can be self-funded or supported by sponsors are welcome at any time.
A number of funded opportunities are also advertised throughout the year.
Use the PhD Finder to view all our current opportunities and filter by subject.
View Funded PhDs on PhD Finder
View guidance and step-by-step video instructions on making an online application .
Applicants must provide evidence of their English language proficiency .
The timetable for the Annual PhD Studentships competition for September 2025 entry is as follows:
4pm (GMT) on Mon 3 February 2025 for applications to:
4pm (GMT) on Mon 24 February 2025 for applications to:
Please note that all requested supplemental items (e.g.
degree certificates, research proposal, CV, examples of academic writing etc.) MUST be submitted alongside the application by the closing date.
Failure to supply the required supplemental items by the closing date will mean that your application will not be deemed to have been submitted on time.
Applicants should hold, or expect to obtain by September 2025, a First or Upper Second Class Honours Degree in a subject relevant to the proposed area of study.
Applicants who already hold a doctoral degree or who have been registered on a programme of research leading to the award of a doctoral degree on a full-time basis for more than one year, or part-time equivalent, funded from any source, including self-financing researchers, are NOT eligible for a scholarship.
All applicants should also hold a relevant English language qualification .
All applications for scholarships will be considered on a competitive basis and with regard to the applicant’s qualifications, skills, experience and interests.
Applicants can refer to our guidance for help on making an application.
Applicants may discuss their application with the supervisors noted within the project description prior to submission.
Competition for funded entry is very high.
It is important that all parts of the application process are completed in accordance with the instructions.
Applicants should note that disclosure of disability or personal circumstances should be made as part of the application process or as soon as possible thereafter in order to facilitate any necessary adjustments or accommodation.
Please contact researchstudent@ulster.ac.uk if you have any queries.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/doctoralcollege/postgraduate-research/self-funded-and-private-sponsor:
View Self-funding PhDs
If you plan to self-fund your studies or have a sponsor who will fund your research study, you can apply at any point in the year.
Firstly, you will need to identify whether we have appropriate supervision in your chosen field of interest to support you.
You can view the research areas at the above link.
Once you have identified a research area, you should approach either the named 'contact supervisor' or other supervisors detailed on the webpage to discuss your research proposal.
Supervisors will be able to advise whether the project is viable and whether supervisory expertise and resources exist within the University to support you.
They may also be able to advise whether any additional project costs (or bench fees) will be required for your project.
In preparation for submitting an application, you should prepare your research proposal - this will be requested as part of your application and is required for all self funded projects.
Submit your application and supporting items, using the 'apply now' link on the research area webpage.
This will tie your application to the correct research area and programme and will ensure that the correct team are invited to consider your application.
To facilitate this, please note the name of the academic member of staff with whom you have discussed your project at the top of your research proposal.
As part of your application, you will be asked how you plan to self fund your studies.
You should clearly specify the source of funds, ensuring that any bench fees are taken into account.
Details for the postgraduate research (PhD) tuition fees can be found here.
If you submit a self funded application without discussing your project with an academic member of staff, your application may be withdrawn.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/doctoralcollege/postgraduate-research/phd-by-published-work:
You may be eligible to apply for the PhD by Published Work which is a one-year programme pulling together themes from your existing publications.
If you are a member of staff or have a close link to the University, with a body of research already published, you may be eligible to apply for the PhD by Published Work which is a one-year programme pulling together themes from your existing publications.
Find out more in this route to PhD by viewing the regulations , which explain the entry criteria and the requirements of the programme.
You may apply for this route to PhD via the online application system .

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/doctoralcollege/postgraduate-research/mres:
The MRes is available via four different pathways: Biomedical Sciences, Psychology, Geography and Environmental Sciences, and Medicine.
The MRes is a great introduction to research study and is a one-year programme for those interested in going on to a career in research or even as preparation for a PhD.
The Master of Research Programme (MRes) offered by the Faculty of Life and Health Sciences, provides a one year training in research suitable for those who wish to proceed to enrol for a PhD programme, but at the same time is a research degree recognised in its own right.
The overall educational aim of the MRes programme is to provide graduate students with knowledge and understanding of research methods, training in appropriate technical skills and scholarship skills, such as critical thinking and the capacity to write in the style of their discipline, along with advanced study in areas of their discipline.
Importantly, students apply for and enrol to complete a specified research project, and the rest of the course is tailored to support conducting that research.
The function of this programme is to provide students with a range of research-related skills and the capacity to proceed to PhD programmes.
Undergraduate programmes do not necessarily provide enough of these skills, and there is a national and an international trend towards requiring completion of a Master’s degree prior to entry to PhD programmes.
The overall structure allows for several pathways in areas of Biomedical Sciences, Geography & Environmental Sciences, Psychology and Medicine.
This a research degree where initial training in discipline areas and research methods is followed by research project preparation and scholarship skills training, and then by completion of the research project and the dissertation.
The overall programme takes 12 months to complete through full-time study, with dissertation submission being required in September.
Pathway Leads:
What motivated you to enrol on the MRes Psychology programme?
After completing my undergraduate degree in Psychology at Ulster, I knew I wanted to continue developing my research skills in a focused and structured way.
The MRes programme stood out as the ideal bridge between undergraduate study and doctoral-level research.
I was particularly motivated by the opportunity to work closely with academic staff on real-world projects and to receive advanced training in research methods, analysis, and academic writing.
Having taken a substantial amount of time away from education earlier in life, I saw the MRes as a way to build a solid foundation for a long-term career in psychological research and academia.
Tell us about your research project.
My MRes dissertation involves a secondary data analysis of the MAGIC project (Measurement and Assessment of Grief in an International Cross-Cultural Sample).
This global dataset explores how grief is experienced and assessed across different cultural contexts.
My project aims to examine possible associations between symptoms of Prolonged Grief Disorder (PGD) and somatisation (how psychological distress can manifest physically).
By investigating these patterns within an international sample, the research seeks to contribute to a more nuanced understanding of grief's impact on both mental and physical health across diverse populations.
How has undertaking the MRes Psychology prepared you for your next career step?
The MRes has been invaluable in preparing me for doctoral research.
It provided intensive training in research design, statistics, and critical analysis, skills that are central to progressing in academia, particularly in research orientated study.
The opportunity to work independently while also receiving close supervision has helped me grow in confidence as a researcher.
I also learned how to manage large data sets, write for publication, and present complex findings clearly, all of which will be essential during the PhD I start in September 2025, which is the next part of my 4.5-year scholarship with the NINE DTP (Northern Ireland and Northeast of England Doctoral Training Partnership).
Most importantly, it has affirmed my commitment to pursuing a possible career in psychological research and higher education as a lecturer.
What motivated you to enrol in the MRes Psychology program?
I applied for the ESRC DTP Master's and PhD scholarship, which required me to select a Master’s program.
My supervisor recommended the MRes in Psychology, and after speaking with former students, I learned that it provides excellent preparation for a PhD due to its emphasis on independent learning and research methods.
As I prepare to start my PhD in September, I can see how the MRes has helped me develop skills in self-directed learning, time management, and research autonomy, all of which mirror the structure of PhD work.
The program also allows flexible module selection, enabling me to tailor my learning to fit my mixed-methods research approach.
While some of the content refreshed my undergraduate knowledge, the advanced research focus has significantly strengthened my skills.
My MRes research project, titled "Examining How Physical, Emotional, and Social Factors Affect Pain and Its Impact on Quality of Life and Motor Function in Adults with Cerebral Palsy (CP)," is closely connected to my PhD work on pain measurement in adults with CP.
This research is particularly meaningful to me as I have CP myself.
I have found it exciting to contribute to an often under-researched area while also developing strong research and analytical skills.
The MRes program has provided me with a solid foundation for conducting rigorous and impactful research, allowing me to engage with relevant communities and organisations.
The MRes program has significantly prepared me for my PhD by providing a solid foundation in CP research and the opportunity to forge important connections in the field.
Throughout this program, I have developed expertise in mixed-methods research, built relationships with organisations and communities related to CP, and learned to implement accessible and inclusive research practices.
This experience has boosted my confidence and readiness to transition into my PhD, ensuring that I begin with a clear research direction and strong methodological skills.
Students apply for and are accepted onto approved projects put forward by the pathway staff team.
Inclusion of a project on the advertised list for an academic year indicates that the named supervisors have undertaken to offer support of research project preparation in Semester 2 linked to research project supervision in Semester 3.
Applications to the MRes programme must be made for specific research projects proposed by members of Ulster University academic staff, which are usually advertised in the Spring/Summer of each academic year.
Current opportunities are listed here.
The overall structure consists of five related elements.
These are:
30 credit points (through one or two modules) are completed that are appropriate to the discipline and planned research project topic.
These are normally selected from MSc modules taught on the campus where the student and planned project are located.
30 credit points (through one or two modules) are completed that are appropriate to the discipline and planned research project methodology.
This is a 30-credit module taken by blended learning, usually in Semester 2.
It covers critical thinking skills and scholarly writing skills and is focussed on materials from the student’s discipline area.
(30 credit points): The student is in contact with the project supervisory team throughout the year.
Usually in Semester 2, directed training to develop specific skills for the conduct of the research project is undertaken and assessed.
Work on the project may begin in Semester 2 (or even earlier) but is completed and assessed through dissertation submission (in the format of a manuscript suitable for submission to a relevant science journal along with an extended literature review) in Semester 3, the summer period.
Projects undertaken are typically in similar areas to those being undertaken by PhD students in the research group to which the supervisors are attached, but they are of a scope and level appropriate for the MRes.
Completion of research project and dissertation
(60 credit points)
Michelle Clements talks about her experience as an MRes researcher at Ulster.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/doctoralcollege/postgraduate-research/phd-mphil:
Ulster University offers the opportunity to study on a self funded basis for the degree of Master of Philosophy (MPhil).
The MPhil programme is studied over a 2 year period on a full-time basis or 4 years on a part-time basis.
We would recommend that you contact one of our academic staff whose interests align with your own to discuss your intended research prior to submitting an application.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/doctoralcollege/postgraduate-research/doctor-of-medicine:
The Doctor of Medicine (MD) is for those who have held a qualification registrable with the General Medical Council for at least three years.
The full set of regulations can be viewed in order to ascertain eligibility for this programme of study.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/doctoralcollege/postgraduate-research/doctor-of-philosophy-phd:
Ulster University offers numerous opportunities to study for a PhD on both a funded and self funded basis.
The PhD programme is studied over a 3 year period on a full-time basis or 6 years on a part-time basis.
Please review our PhD Finder for details of our self-funded and funded opportunities as well as details on eligibility and the application process.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/doctoralcollege/postgraduate-research/higher-doctorates:
We offer a number of Higher Doctorates for members of staff or graduates of the University in recognition of distinguished contributions to scholarship or original research:
The requirements for these degrees may be found in the Regulations .

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/short-courses/postgraduate-subjects:
We work hard to ensure employability is at the heart of our learning experience and that our courses are professionally relevant, in line with industry needs and skills demands.
If we haven't provided you with all the information you need below, do not hesitate to contact us at Flexed@ulster.ac.uk.
Build your expertise in Biomedical Sciences and the specialist fields of Diabetes Care, Cataract and Refractive Surgery, Nutrition, Dietetics, Regulatory Affairs,  Personalised Medicine, Biotechnology, Stem Cell Biology, Veterinary  Health and Prescribing for Optometrists.
Enhance your leadership capabilities with courses in Management, Entrepreneurship, Executive Coaching, and Leadership.
Award-winning School of Nursing ranked 1st in Ireland and 7th in the UK.
Enhance your knowledge and skills in the causes and development of human behaviour.
Develop your skills in Applied Psychology, Behaviour Analysis and specialist areas of Mental Health, Psychological Therapies,  Health and Wellbeing, Health Promotion and Behaviour Change.
Build your expertise in Peace and Conflict Studies.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/short-courses/why-ulster-is-the-best-choice-for-your-training-needs:
Our strong collaboration with industry is reflected in our dynamic course portfolio, cutting edge research and world-class facilities.
We’re proud of our wide range of corporate partnerships and work with businesses to find the best upskilling solution for them; our knowledge can help develop and upskill your workforce, deliver expertise to help your business grow and find and keep new talent.
The immediate implementation of skills and expertise is at the heart of the learning experience we deliver.
Each of our four Faculties work with employers and awarding bodies to develop our curriculum and have achieved extensive accreditation from a range of professional bodies, across our entire suite of programmes.
If we haven't provided you with all the information you need below, do not hesitate to contact us at FlexEd@ulster.ac.uk
Investing in employee development will help to indicate any gaps within your company, highlighting where skill levels need to be developed in order to help with your overall business goals.
Will demonstrate to your employees that you care and listen to your workforce, that you want them to succeed and develop within the company.
Helping to develop your employees' skills, knowledge and confidence will ensure a pipeline of talent for your organisation’s future, effectively aiming to develop potential leaders within your company.
Nurturing your talent will result in a positive impact on your company by creating an engaged and committed workforce.
Teaching is delivered primarily through lectures, seminars and tutorials as well as practical and field work where appropriate.
Many of our courses include assignments based on your live business challenges so that your staff can immediately transfer skills to real-world practice.
We offer courses on a full-time and part-time basis and teaching may be delivered on campus, by e-Learning or a combination of both (blended or hybrid learning).
Some of our short courses are delivered by block teaching which is an intensive period of learning e.g.
three full days once or twice per semester (a semester is 12 weeks).
This will help you and your employee to plan their study and work commitments.
In keeping with our commitment to deliver practical skills and expertise, we design our learnings spaces so that they reflect the real world.
Your team learn in the state-of-the-art facilities with industry standard equipment.
Our architecture super-studio, award winning student run restaurant, tv studios, financial trading room, laboratories and art workshops are just some examples of how your employees can benefit from our investment in modern facilities which mirror what they experience in real world working.
Our assessments are designed to assess the achievement of the module’s stated learning outcomes, assessment methods vary and are defined explicitly in each module.
The precise assessment will depend on the module and may be subject to change from year to year for quality or enhancement reasons.
Your staff will be consulted about any significant changes.
Coursework can take many forms, for example: essay, report, seminar paper, test, presentation, dissertation, design, artefacts, portfolio, journal, group work.
Our modules are the building blocks of our courses, and each module is designed so your employee can acquire a discrete package of skills and knowledge.
Many of our modules offer the additional benefit of accreditation by leading industry bodies and organizations.
Our accredited short courses cover a series of subject areas and the majority are linked to a Masters degree, allowing you to experience study at postgraduate level before applying to the full qualification.
Each short course is worth a number of credit points and can be taken individually or combined towards the Postgraduate Certificate of Professional Development (awarded once a total of 60 credit points have been completed).
Once achieved, they can more onto the next award level following the successful completion of further study.
Helping your employees to progress to a higher-level qualification will help to ensure a pipeline of talent, including developing your company’s future leaders.
Undertaking a short course may be the best option if a single module providers your employee with the required skills or if you want a taster before you and your employee commit to more extensive study.
Short courses have various starting dates throughout the year.
Your employees can complete a short course or module and then return to study additional modules and gain their Postgraduate Certificate, ideally within a 5-year timeframe.
In consultation with employers and industry, we have developed a number of courses to deliver a discrete set of skills but which do not build towards a higher level award like a Masters.
A Postgraduate Certificate or a Postgraduate Diploma provides you with the discrete skills and expertise you need whilst providing your employee with a valuable and widely recognized award, and for some courses, the expertise needed for accreditations.
The Postgraduate Certificate and the Postgraduate Diploma reflect a combination of modules (skills) with the Postgraduate Certificate as the entry award level building towards Master level education.
Your employee can graduate with a Postgraduate Certificate, progress to a Postgraduate Diploma or even a Masters award.
If you are not sure which award level or combination of modules will best meet your needs do not hesitate to contact our Postgraduate Team – postgradstudy@ulster.ac.uk
A Masters Programme will add specialist skills and expertise to your business and, through their dissertation, can provide your business access to the latest industry thinking and research.
A Masters programme is typically 180 credit point and a standard Masters programme on a full-time basis will take a year to complete.
We offer a range of Masters programmes that can be taken full-time or part-time, with online options also available.
There are no restrictions to how long a part-time degree may take other than you ideally want to complete the degree within 5 years to ensure recency of content and skills acquired.
Important note: Some Maters programmes, like Masters of Fine Art and Masters of Architecture are 240 Credit Points.
If you have a group of employees who would benefit from the same training or skills development, it may be best for us to develop a course for your organisation.
You would benefit from the latest industry thinking combined with immediate implementation in your organisation.
Get in touch to discuss your needs and how we can help you and your employees gather the knowledge and skills needed to develop your business.
Add contact
Alternatively, you may wish to develop your workforce through Higher Level Apprenticeships.
Higher level apprenticeships offer school leavers (aged 16 or over), the opportunity to get a recognised qualification up to Masters level while in paid employment in the private sector.
Most programmes are fully funded by the Department for the Economy, whilst some of the programmes require a small contribution from employers.
Apprentices combine working with studying to gain skills and knowledge in a specific job and to attain a higher level award.
Apprentices can be new or current employees.
You must pay the apprentice at least the minimum wage as outlined by the Government.
Contact the apprenticeship team at apprenticeshiphub@ulster.ac.uk
Employers across Northern Ireland require highly skilled professionals to drive their businesses forward.
Working in partnership with the Department for the Economy, we have developed a range of FREE postgraduate courses to ensure you have the skills and expertise to succeed.
You must be a resident in Northern Ireland to apply.
Get more information on the courses, eligibility and the application process.
View the Skill Up website

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/short-courses/short-courses-and-cpd-course-information:
We work hard to ensure employability is at the heart of the learning experience we deliver and that our courses are professionally relevant, in line with industry needs.
Each of our four Faculties work in close collaboration with employers and awarding bodies to develop our curriculum and have achieved extensive accreditation from a range of processional bodies, across our suite of Programmes.
We offer a range of postgraduate short courses to support your continuing professional development XCPD).
Short courses may be delivered on campus each week, by block learning or fully online and they have start dates throughout the year.
All short courses require an undergraduate degree and some may have additional entry requirements.
Fees start from as little as £170 for a five-credit point course and funding may be available.
Our academic year is split into 3 semesters with the majority of our courses starting on the first day of Semester 1 in September .
Traditionally this is the 3 rd Monday of the month .
Our short courses have start dates throughout the year
We recommend that you start a course no later than 2 weeks after the start date so that you can receive the optimal learning experience.
You can find our entire range of undergraduate and postgraduate courses via our online prospectus where you can search for course by campus or delivery.
Here you will find a top-line summary of the course.
Click the view course button for more details of the course.
This will include what you will learn, fee information, entry requirements for the course and testimonials.
Each course is led by a Course Director.
If you want to get more detailed information about the course or discuss your personal circumstances, you can contact the Course Director or course team via the contact information on each course page.
The entry requirements for each course are dependent upon its subject matter and if you need prior qualifications to study at postgraduate level.
You can find entry requirements on the individual course pages of the online prospectus or can discuss further with our Flexible Education team who can review your experience and how that fits with the entry requirements.
Contact us at FlexEd@ulster.ac.uk
Changing direction can be very exciting and daunting.
Don’t worry we are here to help.
The answer depends on the subject area or course you are interested in.
There are many courses that require prior undergraduate study in that field due to the nature of the content.
This will be outlined in the entry requirements for each course.
These tend to be courses in more specialized or technical fields.
If you are interested in a course in this field, it may be best that you look at undergraduate study in the first instance.
Similarly, there are several postgraduate courses that are open to graduates without undergraduate qualifications in the specific field.
Again, you can see if an undergraduate degree in the field is required on the individual course pages.
If you are unsure about whether you meet the entry requirements or want to understand the best route for your change in direction do not hesitate to contact us at FlexEd@ulster.ac.uk.
Ulster University is the leading provider of postgraduate study in NI and has adapted its teaching to meet the needs of its students, especially those with other professional or family commitments.
Our short courses and CPD are available on a part-time basis you will be able to study on a timeline that best suits you.
You can use these qualifications to build towards a Postgraduate Certificate, Postgraduate Diploma or a final Masters award on your timeline.
If you would like more information about which programme is best for your individual circumstances, do not hesitate to contact us at FlexEd@ulster.ac.uk.
We have many students who are returning to education after many years away.
We recommend that you have a chat with our Flexible Education team if you are concerned about the currency of your previous studies.
They can discuss with you your previous experience and the entry requirements.
Do not hesitate to contact us at FlexEd@ulster.ac.uk.
Assessment methods vary and are defined explicitly in each module.
Assessment can be a combination of examination and coursework but may also be only one of these methods.
Assessment is designed to assess your achievement of the module’s stated learning outcomes.
You will be consulted about any significant changes.
The precise form and combination of assessment will depend on the course you apply for and the module.
If you want more information about assessment for a specific course, please visit the course pages .
If you want more information about exams and assessment,  you can find the contact details of the Course Director or the course team in the Contact section of the course pages.
Interested in following a career in research?
Ulster University is renowned and respected for its world-leading research and its Doctoral College.
You will be taught by world-class researchers and academics whose advances and discoveries are transforming societies and economies at home and abroad.
Our Masters programmes are designed so that you can specialize whilst building your research skills.
If you would like more information about your chosen field and how it can help you build towards a career in research do not hesitate to contact your Course Director.
You can find the contact details of the Course Director or the course team in the Contact section of the course pages.
If a Doctorate is your ultimate goal learn more about our Doctoral College

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/short-courses/short-courses-support:
As an Ulster student you can avail of a wide range of services at our award-winning Employability and Careers Hubs.
You can avail of the following services up to 3 years post-graduation:
If you would like to speak with someone about the services available or for advice about which course best meets your career ambitions contact our team at careers@ulster.ac.uk
Starting a business?
You can also access the Student Enterprise Centre where you get help to set up your business from developing a business plan, sourcing funding and advice from mentors, industry advisors including legal advice.
Find out more about UUSU.
Our Wellbeing team is always on hand to offer free, professional, confidential and accessible services on all four campuses.
All our students can access face-to-face confidential counselling support from a trained counsellor, or or off campus.
You can alert us via your application that you will need some assistance or contact  our team at studentwellbeing@ulster.ac.uk .
Find out more including the Disabled Students' Allowance including residency and eligibility requirements
Learn more on our Student Money pages or contact  the team at studentwellbeing@ulster.ac.uk .
Fee information is included on the course pages and Tuition Fees section.
For more information about discounts, visit our Finance pages.
There are 2 funds available to UK/ NI Students and ROI, EU and International Students, Respectively.
We may also qualify for one of our scholarships A number of these are funded by our leading industry partners.
Find out more about our Ulster University Scholarships.
Each campus has its own unique identity but has the same dedicated Student Support services, world-class libraries and safe, welcoming accommodation.
Find out more about each Ulster University campus.
Our award -winning accommodation is located on or close to our four campuses.
At Ulster University, we're proud to have an alumni network of over 225,000, making an impact in communities, locally and globally.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/short-courses/application-process:
If you have any queries about the application process do not hesitate to contact us at FlexEd@ulster.ac.uk
If you need help whilst completing your application, you can contact Flexible Education at FlexEd@ulster.ac.uk
Deadlines will be communicated on the course pages.
For most of our courses, we recommend that you submit your application no later than 2 weeks prior to the start date.
However, course places may be limited, or you may need some time to complete the application process, so we recommend that you start the process as early as possible.
Contact FlexEd@ulster.ac.uk
The entry requirements for each course are dependent upon its subject matter and if you need prior qualifications to study the short course.
You can find entry requirements on the individual course pages of the online prospectus or can discuss further with our Flex Ed team who can review your experience and how that fits with the entry requirements.
Contact them at FlexEd@ulster.ac.uk
You can apply to Ulster directly via the course pages.
You will need to fully complete an individual application for each course.
The first step of each application form is that you will be asked to be asked to select the academic year and the specific course.
If you are applying to multiple courses because you are unsure which is best for you or you want to develop your skills further with multiple short courses, please contact the our Flex Ed team who can discuss what is the best approach for you Flexed@ulster.ac.uk.
Our undergraduate level courses (from 5 to 20 credits) can be taken for personal enjoyment or professional development and do not require any previous qualifications or experience.
Once you have accumulated 60 credits, you will be awarded an undergraduate Certificate in Continuing Personal and Professional Development (CPPD).
Undergraduate Short Courses
Our postgraduate level courses are offered in a range of subject areas for professional development and career enhancement.
A number of these courses are recognised by professional bodies and meet continuing professional development (CPD) requirements.
Courses (from 5 to 30 credits) can be taken individually or combined towards a Postgraduate Certificate of Professional Development (60 credits).
Postgraduate Short Courses
Please add the name which should be used for your communications with the university.
This will include details of the course that you have applied to.
If this is incorrect or you want to change your course, please reply to the email and our Admissions team will make the relevant changes.
We will send you an email about your application status or you can see its stats by visiting the Online Application system.
If a reference check is required, our team will contact your referees prior to making an offer.
Your application has been successful, and you meet the entry requirements for a confirmed place at Ulster.
Once these are met, you can share these details with FlexEd@ulster.ac.uk
If you want to discuss your decision or explore alternative options please contact FlexEd@ulster.ac.uk
Our team are here to help you through the process so do not hesitate to contact us at FlexEd@ulster.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/part-time/undergraduate/course-search:
Showing 1
                        -41 of 
                      215 results Clear all filters
Gain the skills to design and develop the next generation of Artificial Intelligence (Al) systems and services.
Achieve proficiency in communicative skills in Irish while developing a deep understanding of the Irish language community and the written language.
Flexible, part-time, on-campus BSc (Hons) Biomedical Sciences, supported by online teaching.
IBMS accredited BSc Honours articulation pathway for biomedical science sub-degree graduates.
Full BSc (Hons) Biomedical Science, part-time distance-learning degree in collaboration with Sligo Institute of Technology which is IBMS accredited.
Strong industrial focus in the area of biopharmaceutical science, part-time distance-learning in collaboration with Sligo Institute of Technology.
The effective assessment and care of our built environment through a professionally informed approach.
Become future ready and gain the business acumen and commercial knowledge necessary for a successful career in Business.
Developing global business leaders of the future.
In today's tech driven world, business and technology cannot be separated - understanding both will develop you as a future business leader.
Showing 1-41 of 215 results

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/part-time/undergraduate/part-time-undergraduate-subjects/accounting:
A unique course developed for the dynamic FinTech sector that can be taken either as a Degree Apprentice scheme or self-funded.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/part-time/undergraduate/part-time-undergraduate-subjects/architecture-and-the-built-environment:
Innovate and engineer your environment.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/part-time/undergraduate/part-time-undergraduate-subjects/art:
The start of your creative adventure into the world of film and cinema.
BA Hons Fine Art offers practice-based study within painting, printmaking, sculpture, performance, lens-based media, ceramics,and history and theory.
A highly creative course focused on skills, knowledge and creativity for the design and development of games using specialised tools and practices.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/part-time/undergraduate/part-time-undergraduate-subjects/business-marketing-and-management:
Developing knowledge and skills in Public Relations and Communication.
Developing business leaders for the events industry.
Developing business leaders and entrepreneurs for the international hospitality industry with an emphasis on developing relevant transferable skills.
Transforming and unlocking the potential of hospitality business leaders to build a sustainable international hospitality industry.
Embark on a global journey towards success, shaping leaders for the dynamic world of international tourism at Ulster University.
Empowering Future Leaders to Drive Customer-Centric Success in a Tech-Enabled World

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/part-time/undergraduate/part-time-undergraduate-subjects/communication-and-media:
The BSc Hons Marketing degree produces dynamic graduates who pursue professional careers in the field of Marketing in NI and abroad.
Build strong brands, engage target audiences, and launch a career with limitless opportunities - locally or globally.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/part-time/undergraduate/part-time-undergraduate-subjects/computing-and-computing-technologies:
This course provides graduates with the knowledge and skills to apply best practice in developing software systems to solve problems in organisations.
Design your own degree pathway and progress part-time at a pace that best suits you, completing in 3, 4, 5 or 6 years.
Unlock your future and earn while you learn with Ulster University's BSc (Hons) Computing Systems Degree Apprenticeship.
This course provides a broad-based education in Information Technologies and produces graduates able to apply best practice in the use of IT systems.
This course offers students a broad engineering experience designed to suit the current needs for Electrical and Electronic Engineering.
This Degree Apprenticeship allows Engineering apprentices achieve a honours degree while working within an apprenticeship position in industry.
This course offers students Electronic Engineering with Enterprise Development technical knowledge and business acumen.
The Ulster Law School has an excellent reputation for teaching, research, student support and student development.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/part-time/undergraduate/part-time-undergraduate-subjects/english-irish-language-and-linguistics:
Achieve fluency in spoken Irish and efficiency in written Irish.
Completion of this programme can be a pathway to study Irish at degree level.
How language works, how it's learned, and how we use it.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/part-time/undergraduate/part-time-undergraduate-subjects/engineering:
Take your natural curiosity, combine it with your interest in Maths, Science or Technology and use your imagination to design and build the future.
This course offers students Mechanical Engineering with Enterprise Development technical knowledge and business acumen.
Mechatronic Engineering is a multidisciplinary field combining electronic, mechanical, computer and control engineering.
Create a more sustainable world with renewable energy engineering.
Refine and rethink clean energy sources such as wind, biomass, solar, and hydro.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/part-time/undergraduate/part-time-undergraduate-subjects/education:
The course is a recognised course for those working in FE Colleges in NI and in training organisations.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/part-time/undergraduate/part-time-undergraduate-subjects/food-nutrition-and-culinary-arts:
Develop the culinary skills and management knowledge necessary for a vibrant global career.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/part-time/undergraduate/part-time-undergraduate-subjects/law:
The School of Law provides innovative, academically rigorous teaching, at the forefront of legal practice and academic research.
Empowering future legal minds with the knowledge, skills, and confidence to shape justice, commerce and society.
An accelerated programme for graduates in any discipline who seek a law degree.
Exploring the intersection of law and criminology to understand crime and the justice system from both legal and social perspectives.
Explore how legal systems and political institutions shape society, combining legal training with political theory and analysis.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/part-time/undergraduate/part-time-undergraduate-subjects/medicine-and-health-sciences:
Developing highly knowledgeable and skilled graduates for the health and social care professions.
By completing this exciting course students will attain the NMC recorded qualification of Independent and Supplementary Nurse Prescribing (V300).

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/part-time/undergraduate/part-time-undergraduate-subjects/policy-politics-and-society:
A dynamic subject essential to understanding people, power and policies in a changing world.
This course explores the causes of social problems and how societies strive to address and resolve them.
Sociology at Ulster has a record of excellence in teaching and learning, regularly achieving 100% satisfaction rates in the National Student Survey.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/part-time/undergraduate/part-time-undergraduate-subjects/psychology:
Psychology at Ulster University promises high quality teaching in a supportive learning environment.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/part-time/undergraduate/part-time-undergraduate-subjects/social-work-and-community-youth-work:
Supporting you to develop professional community development practice in order to transform communities.
Embark on a professional career working with young people in the community.
This interdisciplinary course facilitates students 'topping up' their Foundation degree (FdSc) in Counselling to an honours degree level.
Health and Social Care Policy focuses on policy issues facing our society such as providing and financing healthcare, health inequalities and ageing.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/student/fees/tuition-fees/home-ni-roi/home-niroi-academic-year-202526:
Tuition Fees Academic Year 2025/26 for Home (NI/ROI) Students.
(Rate per credit point)
See Note 4 below for an explanation of credit points
Undergraduate and equivalent courses (except those as detailed below):
Rate per credit point
Rate per 20 credit point module
(For those whose year of admission on to the programme is prior to 2022/23, please contact the Tuition Fees Office)
(Life Sciences - in collaboration with Atlantic Technological University)
BSc Hons Customer Management.
(Programme offered by the Business Engagement Unit)
Masters courses (except those as detailed below) and individual modules
Rate per 30 credit point module
Programmes offered by the Business Engagement Unit
Full-time students registering for a postgraduate diploma will only be charged 2/3 of the full master's fee for that course as detailed above.
Full-time students registering for a postgraduate certificate only will be charged 1/3 of the full master's fee for that course as detailed above.
Part-time students registering on a postgraduate certificate/diploma course will be charged the corresponding master's rate per credit point fee as detailed above, unless separately detailed.
Students in receipt of Turing funding for study or work placement abroad with a minimum duration of 24 weeks may be entitled to a placement Tuition fee waiver.
If eligible, the waiver will be applied to your record when confirmed by the Department of Global Engagement.
The table shows the minimum overall credit points that students are expected to attain in order to gain specific awards.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/part-time/undergraduate/application-process:
If you have any queries about the application process do not hesitate to contact us at admissions@ulster.ac.uk ..
To apply to our part-time undergraduate programmes you will apply directly to Ulster University via our online application system.
You will only apply via UCAS if you are applying to a full-time undergraduate programme.
You can apply to Ulster directly via the course pages .
Applying for a part-time place at Ulster University does not impact any UCAS applications you may make.
For most of our courses, we recommend that you submit your application no later than 2 weeks prior to the start of the semester.
Contact our admissions team at admissions@ulster.ac.uk .
The entry requirements for each course are dependent upon its subject matter and if you need prior qualifications to study at Undergraduate Level.
You will also need to meet the University General Entrance Requirements.
The first step of each application form requires you to choose the specific academic year and the specific course.
If you are applying for multiple courses because you are unsure which is best for you, please contact the Course Director who can discuss what is the best approach for you.
You can get their contact information in the Contact section on the course pages.
You will be asked to choose your application type.
You will be asked to choose your Admission Term.
It is important that you read the details of this email as we require additional information from you to progress your application.
If this is incorrect or you want to change your course please reply to the email and our Admissions team will make the relevant changes.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/flexible-education/professional:
We work with individuals, business, industry, and third sector organisations to identify learning needs, provide training courses, develop bespoke programmes or accredit work place learning.
University/Higher Education is available to everyone regardless of age, not all students leave school and enter full time education.
We recognise that learning does not stop when you leave formal education, and we work with employers to understand organisation and individual learning and training needs.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/part-time-fees:
Part-time students typically complete their studies over 5-7 years.
Please note the breakdown of fees for undergraduate part-time courses can vary depending on the number of modules.
For confirmation of how many credit points/modules your course has please contact the course director whose details you can find on the individual course pages.
Grants do not have to be repaid
As a part-time undergraduate student you may be eligible for a means tested Fee Grant of up to £1,230 and a Course Grant of up to £265.
These grants do not have to be repaid.
Find out more about financial support for part-time study.
Loans are available to help you realize your goals.
The Department for the Economy has introduced Part-time Tuition Fee Loans for Northern Ireland students .
To help spread the cost of your studies, tuition fees can be paid back in monthly instalments while you learn.
If you study for a part-time degree, you can pay your fees up-front or in either five** or ten** equal monthly payments during each year of study.
Part-time students can take advantage of a payment discount.
If you pay the full cost of your annual fees at enrolment you will receive a 5% discount.
This offer cannot be used in conjunction with any other discount, offer or scholarship and is for self-funded students only.
* Terms and conditions apply.
Correct at the time of publishing.
Fees illustrated are based on 20/21 entry and are subject to an annual increase.
Part-time fees are charged per credit point for each module studied and are subject to an annual increase.
** Five-month payment plan is paid by direct debit.
Ten-month payment plan is paid by a Recurring Card Payment plan (credit/debit card).
Payments must be completed by 1 June during the academic year which may reduce the number of payments for late enrollers.
Annual part-time fees are based on the number of modules you study each year (you only pay for the modules you study).
Calculation based on studying an equal number of modules each year.
If you study fewer or more credit points in each academic year this will affect the amount paid during the academic year.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/part-time-fees/tuition-fee-loan:
Information on tuition fee loans.
For the 2021/22  academic year, the Government will provide a tuition fee loan of up to £3,397.50 for students studying on undergraduate part-time courses.
The current fee grant support will also remain in place unchanged.
The Part-time Tuition Fee Loan will be:
Important:  Your fees are calculated based on the number of modules completed within the respective academic year.
A tuition fee loan may not cover the total costs of your course.
If the course costs more than the student finance you can get, you need to pay the difference.
You could get this funding if you’re able to identify as one of the following:
You must:
EU Nationals (including ROI nationals) with less than 3 years residency in Northern Ireland may be eligible for EU student funding .
Our eligible exception residency types can include refugees, those under humanitarian protection or their immediate family members.
You will not be classed as ‘ordinarily resident’ in Northern Ireland and will not be eligible for support from Student Finance NI.
You should contact your home funding provider for further information on what support is available.
The Fee Loan for part-time students is money that you can borrow to pay for your Tuition Fees when you are studying.
This is a loan, not a grant, meaning that you will have to pay it back.
You will be eligible to start repaying your loan from the earlier of the following dates:
The amount you repay will be linked to your residual household income.
Once you earn over £19,390 a year, you will repay 9% of anything over this amount.
If your residual household income is below £19,390, or drops below that amount, you will not have to make repayments.
The time to repay is based on residual household income and amount borrowed, not a fixed time period as with commercial loans.
Students will still be able to apply for a means tested non-repayable tuition fee grant of up to £1,230 per academic year, and a course grant of up to £265 towards books and travel for academic year 2021/22.
The grant income thresholds and amounts will not change under the new arrangements.
The grants don’t always cover the full cost of course fees so students will be able to apply for the part-time tuition fee loan as a top-up.
Students in receipt of tuition fee grants will simply see their tuition fee loan level reduced accordingly.
Guidance on the Part-time Tuition Fee Loan is available from Student Finance NI , and application forms are posted directly to those students who continue on the same course they studied during the 2021/22 academic year.
All NEW starts from September 2020 can obtain a PTL1 Form from Student Finance NI or from their University/College.
Student Finance Services PO Box 89 Darlington County DurhamDL1 9AZ Telephone: 0141 243 3570 From outside the UK: +44 (0) 141 243 3570 Opening hours: Monday to Friday – 9am to 5:30pm

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/elearning/find-courses:
Showing 1
                        -41 of 
                      117 results Clear all filters
MSc Biomedical Science part-time (Fully Online)
Education and professional training in the biomedical sciences.
This course covers all the most recent advances in laser refractive and refractive cataract surgery, from pre-assessment to complex case management
Master of Education with Specialisms.
Would you like to get a recognised, accredited qualification in employment law from the comfort of your own home/office, wherever you are based?
This established course combines environmental management practice and theory with proven excellence in distance learning.
This established environmental management course combines practice and theory with proven excellence in distance learning.
This innovative course combines teaching of Environmental Management techniques with skills in Geographic Information Systems (GIS).
This course combines the teaching of essential Environmental Management techniques with innovative skills in Geographic Information Systems (GIS).
This is the only MSc in Environmental Toxicology Pollution Monitoring in the United Kingdom.
This course is running since 1999.
Since 1999, we have had over 200 successful graduates.
The programme provides postgraduate training in food regulatory affairs.
Showing 1-41 of 117 results

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/prospectus/undergraduate-202526:
Download your 2025/2026 Undergraduate Prospectus.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/prospectus/gb-undergraduate-prospectus:
Students from England, Scotland, Wales & the Islands - request your Undergraduate Prospectus.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/prospectus/postgraduate-for-business:
We are committed to unlocking the full potential of Northern Ireland, and your business, through our investment in people, places and partnerships.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/prospectus/download-a-postgraduate-international-prospectus-for-202526:
One university.
Three dynamic campuses.
Over 150 postgraduate programmes.
Unlock your potential at Ulster – explore our diverse range of postgraduate courses and discover how our world-class facilities, expert support, and vibrant international community can help you advance your career and achieve your goals.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/prospectus/undergraduate-international-prospectus-202627:
Three vibrant campuses.
Over 250 exciting degree programmes.
Explore our diverse range of courses and discover how Ulster’s world-class facilities, welcoming community, and dedicated student support can help you thrive and shape your future.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/entrance-requirements/undergraduate-entry-requirements:
The General Entrance Requirements identify the minimum qualifications needed for application to a course at Ulster University.
The minimum required for any programmes is a minimum of passes in five subjects, two of which must be at A level (grades A-E) or equivalent (three at A Level for full-time undergraduate courses) and three at GCSE level* (grades A-C/4-9) or equivalent.
We may also take into account relevant work experience.
You should refer to the online prospectus for specific entry requirements to individual courses.
Ulster are also more than happy to accept different combinations of qualifications, e.g.
An A-Level, and two BTECs, or three individual OCR or BTEC qualifications, provided the individual qualifications are accepted and are of the correct size we ask for.
* GCSE English Language (grades A-C/4-9) may be used as part of the GCSE requirement.
All programmes at Ulster require candidates to have competence in written and spoken English and GCSE English Language (grades A-C/4-9) or an equivalent qualification such as Essential Skills or Functional Skills in Communication / English at Level 2.
Many of our programmes also ask for competency in Mathematics and/or Science at GCSE.
In some cases we can accept equivalences such as Essential Skills or Functional Skills in Application of Number at Level 2 but please refer to the online prospectus to find out the specific GCSE requirements for your chosen course.
A full list of qualifications we accept as equivalent to GCSE is available here
Ulster accepts all A-Levels as the basis for entry to our full and part-time undergraduate courses.
The exact grade and subject requirements will be listed on the individual programme pages on the online prospectus .
Some programmes may have additional requirements that will also need to be met.
AS-levels may be taken into consideration for certain courses but offers are not based on those qualifications.
Applied General and Tech Level Qualifications at Extended Diploma, Diploma or Extended Certificate/Introductory Diploma level awarded by Pearson, OCR or AQA are normally accepted for entry to Ulster programmes.
Please refer to individual programme pages on the online prospectus for specific grades required as there are different grades depending on whether your qualification is on the older QCF Framework, or the new RQF Framework.
Some courses may also stipulate that only certain subjects are accepted and may also ask for specific units to be taken.
We normally require a minimum of a Merit.
We also accept foundation diplomas (equivalent to 1.5 A-Levels) but only count these as one subject so applicants will either need a second foundation diploma or the equivalent of two more A-Levels.
Certificates (equivalent to half an A-Level) are not considered for entry.
BTEC Specialist qualifications, including the Advanced Manufacturing Engineering courses are no longer accepted for entry to Ulster programmes, including validated Foundation Degrees.
Ulster does not currently accept any qualifications at Level 3 awarded by OCNNI.
From NCFE, Ulster will accept for general entry, the following programmes:
Ulster does not generally accept qualifications from City and Guilds as satisfying entry requirements with the exception of the following:
Ulster welcomes candidates presenting with new T-Level qualifications in a subject relevant to their chosen degree course.
Our standard offer will ask for an overall grade (Pass, Merit or Distinction) and a specific grade for the core element (A* to C) and our minimum overall requirement is an overall Pass and Grade C or above in the core element.
Details on specific pathways will be made available soon.
Any questions, please email admissions@ulster.ac.uk
Ulster welcomes applicants presenting with Irish Leaving qualifications.
Our minimum requirements are passes at H6 or above in four subjects.
All applicants also have to achieve H6 or O4 in English and where Mathematics is a course requirement, H6 or O4 in Mathematics.
For the majority of our courses we will count UCAS tariff points achieved in all subjects passed.
For a small number of courses we will only make offers for specific grades.
Please refer to individual programme pages on the online prospectus for specific requirements.
*Please note that the Leaving Certificate Vocational Programme (LCVP) is not accepted for entry to any of our courses and that results from Junior Cert are not considered.
Ulster welcomes applicants presenting with QQI Level 5 or Level 6 qualifications gained in Ireland.
Please check the individual course page and use the table below to identify what you need to gain from your QQI qualification to meet the course specific requirements.
If there are any subjects that are required to be studied at A-Level, they will also need to be studied as part of your QQI qualification.
Also, please note that applicants who complete the Mathematics 5N1833 unit as part of a QQI qualification, can use this to satisfy the GCSE/ILC Mathematics requirement, for our courses that ask for Mathematics at GCSE.
Ulster accepts the following two childcare related qualifications as satisfying our general entry requirements:
Ulster does not accept candidates presenting with an NVQ or GNVQ as satisfying our entry requirements.
Ulster welcomes applicants presenting with Scottish Highers and/or Advanced Highers.
Our minimum requirements for a candidate presenting with Highers is CCCCC and DDD if presenting with Advanced Highers.
Ulster is delighted to accept applicants presenting with an Access programme.
If you are taking an Access course that is validated by Ulster or QUB, your offer will be expressed as a percentage.
If you are taking one of the QAA Access to HE Diploma’s, you will be asked to achieve a certain number of distinctions, merits and/or pass grades out of units totalling 45 credits.
Candidates presenting with HNC or HND qualifications are very welcome to apply to Ulster and for some courses, a HND may provide you with an opportunity to join your chosen programme at Year 2 or Year 4, depending on whether there is a match with what you have studied as part of your HND and what we deliver on our course.
In most cases, for entry to final year, you will be expected to undertake “bridging” modules in the summer before your course begins.
Applicants presenting with a HNC must commence in Year 1 of their chosen programme.
Ulster welcomes candidates presenting with Foundation Degrees validated by either Ulster University or Queens University Belfast.
There may be an opportunity to join your chosen programme at Year 2 or Year 4, depending on whether there is a match with what you have studied as part of your Foundation Degree and what we deliver on our course.
* Please note that these are Level 5 Foundation Degrees.
If you are completing a Foundation Year at Level 3, please check the percentages required for applicants presenting with an NI Access course.
We welcome applicants presenting with the International Baccalaureate with an overall profile to include a minimum of 24 points (12 points at higher level) to include Higher or Subsidiary level in English Language (grade 4 or above) and if Maths is a course requirement you need Higher or Subsidiary level in mathematics (grade 4 or above).
Ulster welcomes applicants transferring from other Universities.
We normally check your Level 3 (e.g.
A-Level) qualifications to ensure you meet the requirements for the course but can also take into account any work completed at University.
We can only consider complete years and expect a minimum of 120 credits at Level 4, passed at a level equivalent to the entry requirements for your chosen course.
There may be an opportunity to join your chosen programme at Year 2 or Year 4, depending on whether there is a match with what you have studied as part of your original degree and what we deliver on our course.
These requests will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
Ulster will accept applicants presenting with a Certificate in Higher Education or a completed 120 credits at Level 4 as part of an undergraduate degree.
The table below provides details of what an offer might look like when presenting with a Certificate in HE, but you may also be asked to achieve a certain score in individual modules or to achieve a minimum score in each module.
Please note, that if you have gained this Cert HE as an exit award from a Foundation Degree studied at an FE College in NI after completing only one year of study, you will not be permitted to apply to Ulster until the following academic year.
Full details of our English Language requirements and qualifications that satisfy these requirements can be found on our Global Pages
You do not need to prove your knowledge of English if you’ve completed a qualification equivalent to a UK degree in one of the following countries, or are from one of the following countries:
You also do not need to prove your knowledge of English if one of the following applies:
Ulster appreciates the work a candidate puts in to achieve an Extended Project Qualification but offers are not based on achieving this and the qualification does not get counted as additional tariff points.
Ulster appreciates the work a candidate puts in to achieve a Certificate in Personal Effectiveness but our offers are not based on achieving this and the qualification does not get counted as additional tariff points.
Ulster appreciates the work a candidate puts in to achieve a Level 3 Award in Employability and Professional Development but our offers are not based on achieving this and the qualification does not get counted as additional tariff points.
Ulster will consider applicants presenting with ACCA Level 3 or Level 4 qualifications alongside other accepted A-Level equivalent qualifications.
Ulster accepts candidates presenting with the LIBF/IFS Level 3 Diploma in Financial Studies as satisfying one of the A-Level equivalent requirements.
Equivalences are as follows:
The LIBF/IFS Certificate in Financial Studies is equivalent to an AS Level and not normally considered for the purposes of general entry to Ulster programmes, although for courses validated at FE colleges (e.g.
Foundation Degrees), we will include tariff points achieved in this qualification.
Ulster continues to accept a variety of qualifications that are no longer delivered, but where applicants may have completed these a number of years ago.
Examples of older qualifications we continue to accept are BTECs prior to 2010, Ulster Certificate in Foundation Studies.
etc.
Please contact the Admissions Team if you have completed a qualification that is not included in this list.
In principle, the University recognises all subjects set by recognised examination boards as acceptable in fulfilment of the General Entrance Requirement.
Ulster will, however, take account of restrictions imposed by examination boards, and possible overlap between subjects and will not accept qualifications where there is significant overlap in content as being deemed separate subjects.
Examples where there would be significant overlap include an A Level in Business Studies and  a BTEC in Business; or an A-Level in  Software System Development and an A Level in Computer Science; or an A Level in Digital Technologies and a BTEC in IT.
If you are unsure if your combination would be acceptable, please contact our admissions team.
We will continue to accept subjects awarded as Double Award / Diploma / Extended Diploma etc as more than one subject.
Check here if the qualifications you have taken at Level 2 satisfy our GCSE requirements.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/entrance-requirements/postgraduate-entry-requirements:
To be eligible to apply for a postgraduate degree course, you must provide evidence of competence in written and spoken English (GCSE grades A-C or equivalent); AND hold an Honours degree (2:2 or above) from a UK or Republic of Ireland or from the Council for National Academic Awards, the National Council for Educational Awards, the Higher Education and Training Awards Council, or from another institution which has been recognised by the Senate for this purpose.
Please note that a Pass Degree or Ordinary degree is not accepted for entry to postgraduate programmes at Ulster.
We also accept applicants who hold an equivalent standard in a Graduate Diploma, Graduate Certificate or Postgraduate Certificate or an approved alternative qualification at Level 6 or above.
Please check the programme pages on the online prospectus as some of our postgraduate programmes have additional requirements such as specific subjects required at undergraduate level or relevant work experience.
In some cases, additional selection in the form of an interview or portfolio submission.
Ulster will consider applicants with no formal qualifications as long as you can provide evidence of your ability to study at postgraduate level through the accreditation of your work experience or prior learning (APL/APEL).
Ulster offer PGCE courses at Coleraine Campus in both Primary teaching and Post-Primary teaching.
There are opportunities for Post-Primary in the following subject areas:
To meet the eligibility criteria, you will need to have completed GCSE English and Mathematics at Grade C or above (Essential/Functional Skills do not satisfy the requirements from the General Teaching Council so cannot be used as an equivalence).
For Primary, you also require a minimum of one Science subject at GCSE Grade C or above.
In addition to the GCSE requirements, an honours degree at 2:2 or above is also required.
For Post-Primary courses, your degree must have a minimum of 50% in the cognitive area you wish to teach.
In the event of courses receiving more applicants that can realistically be interviewed, supplemental requirements will be used to shortlist.
For Primary, your degree also needs to cover a minimum of 50% of a subject in the primary curriculum.
More details on the subject areas we accept (and those we don't can be found here).
Please check here if the degree subject you are currently taking satisfies subject requirements for PGCE Primary.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/associate-students/foundation-degree-general-entrance-requirements:
To apply for a Foundation Degree programme, applicants must meet:
Student must show evidence of:
Advanced Subsidiary (AS) level subjects will be taken as 40% of one GCE A level as long as that the applicant’s profile also contains one GCE A level equivalent qualification.
Please note that no subject may be counted at more than one level.
Applications from persons who hold other qualifications may also be considered.
Ulster University may accept studies pursed and examinations passed by the applicant in respect of other university qualifications, or evidence from the accreditation of prior experiential learning.
This could also mean that applicants are exempt from taking some elements of an approved programme as long as they:
For applicants registered on approved programmes at recognised institutions, the same regulations will apply for that institution.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/entrance-requirements/healthcare-and-social-work-students-fitness-to-train:
Information on the assessment of fitness for practice learning for students who have opted to study courses to prepare them for regulated professions in healthcare and social work.
The assessment of fitness for practice learning is a requirement for students who have opted to study courses to prepare them for regulated professions in healthcare and social work.
Courses where this is required are:
The purpose of assessment is two-fold.
Firstly, it helps us determine if you have any health problems, disabilities or learning differences which may affect your capability to fulfil the core competency standards and clinical practice placements required for your chosen course.
Secondly, screening and immunisation checks are carried out to protect patients who may be affected by your placement activities.
Once this process is completed satisfactorily then a Health Clearance Certificate (HCC) will be issued by the University’s Student Occupational Health (OH) Service.
If you are able to provide the necessary evidence of screening and/or immunisations then we may not need to call you to clinic.
However, if you cannot provide the necessary evidence then you will be provided with an appointment to attend an OH clinic.
You will not be able to complete the Health Clearance Certification process until we are certain that you have the necessary vaccinations, blood tests and satisfactory immunity to enable you to undertake clinical placements.
As a healthcare student, you must comply with Department of Health guidelines, necessary to protect you and your patients during the course of your studies.
You may need to be vaccinated for some infectious diseases if you do not already have immunity to them.
While we cannot force you to have a vaccination it is unlikely that the University will allow you to undertake clinical placement without appropriate vaccinations and this may jeopardise your ability to meet the clinical practice requirements of your chosen course.
The health clearance process is based upon guidance from the Department of Health, the UK Health Security Agency (UKHSA) and the association for Higher Education Occupational Practitioners (HEOPS).
The relevant regulatory bodies for Medicine, Nursing, Allied Health Professionals, and Social Work all contain a requirement to ensure patient safety.
Compliance with the immunisation and screening requirements not only help to protect patients from infectious diseases but also students.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/about/governance/governance-and-policy/ordinance-and-regulations:
The Office of the University Secretary is responsible for ensuring that the Charter, Statutes, Ordinances and Regulations are adhered to and for introducing modifications to the Ordinances and Regulations when appropriate.
View the Charter
View the Statutes
View the Ordinances
View the Regulations
The Office of the University Secretary handles a wide range of correspondence with a legal context in relation to educational, consultancy, student discipline and other services often involving formal links with clients and institutions both at home and overseas.
It also ensures that the provisions of the Data Protection Act and the Freedom of Information Act are observed.
However Estates Services deals directly with the University Solicitors on property matters, and similarly People & Culture deals directly with the University Solicitors on matters related to staff and employment.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/learningenhancement/cqe/procedures/student-engagement/student-complaints:
Complaints procedure for Ulster students.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/student/fees/tuition-fees-payments/payment-terms:
Our Tuition Fees Payment Policy provides important information and detailed guidance in relation to tuition fees matters.
To view our Tuition Fees Payment Policy, please select from the links below.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/student/courses/attendance/liability-policy:
Tuition Fee Liability Policy 2025/26
In accordance with the Tuition Fee Liability Policy below, where a student withdraws from / is withdrawn / discontinues or is granted a leave of absence from their studies, the date of withdrawal/discontinuation/leave of absence, as recorded on your withdrawal form, is used by the University in calculating your tuition fee liability.
The exception is that new students with an intake year of 2025/26 will not be liable for any tuition fees for that academic year if they withdraw within 14 calendar days of completing registration or within 14 days from the first day of term, whichever is the latest date, to allow a cooling-off period.
If your tuition fees are being paid via a student loan, the University will be required to notify Student Finance NI of your revised fee liability so that you borrow the correct amount in each academic year.
From first day of term until 2 January 2026
25% of the full annual fee*
From 3 January 2026 until 5 May 2026
50% of the full annual fee*
From 6 May 2026
100% of the full annual fee*
* The fee liability is in percentage terms of the full annual fee.
Please refer to student guide for fee pricing.
25% of the full annual fee or 50% of the semester one fee
(whichever is the higher amount)*
50% of the full annual fee or 100% of the semester one fee
* Semester one fees will vary depending upon modules registered.
** The fee liability is in percentage terms of the full annual fee.
If you enrolled in September 2025 or in January 2026 and are withdrawn or have decided to withdraw, discontinue or take a leave of absence, the withdrawal/discontinuance or leave of absence date approved by the University on your withdrawal form (not last date of attendance) will be used to calculate your tuition fee liability as per Table below.
Postgraduate Research students' fee liability will be calculated monthly in accordance with their date of withdrawal.
Where a student is still registered after the 7th day of a month, tuition fees are chargeable for that month.
Students in receipt of US Federal Aid shall be liable for overseas tuition fees in line with the US Department of Education Title IV Funds return calculation and in line with the University policy stated in part 3 above.
International students studying on campus and commencing their programme in September 2025 / January 2026 will be required to pay a deposit of £4,000 before a Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) can be issued, which is a requirement for your student visa.
Deposits are non-refundable, except under certain circumstances.
For further information, please see our Tuition Fee Liability Policy 2025/26 above.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/student/charter:
Our commitment to you, your commitment to us.
This Charter serves as our mutual guide, detailing our commitments and expectations .
Read on to find out what it means for you and to ensure the best student experience for all.
Make sure to click on the links within the Charter.
These lead you to valuable additional information throughout the site.
1-2 minute read

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/studentadministration/contacts/admissions-office-contacts:
Useful contacts.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/applyonline:
HELP | EXIT
UK/RoI applicants should not use this service to apply for full-time undergraduate degree programmes.
Applications for these programmes should be made through UCAS, refer to the UCAS website for information on how to apply.
If you are applying for Postgraduate study please continue here.
International (non-UK and Ireland) applicants continue to use this service for undergraduate and postgraduate programmes.
FIRST TIME USERS If this is the first time you are using this service Click Here and create a Login ID and PIN.
Please keep a record of the Login ID and PIN you create.
You will need these for future use.
Login IDs are case sensitive.
RETURNING USERS Enter your existing Login ID and PIN and then select Login.
If you forget your Login details please contact the Admissions team Admissions Office .
Do not allow anyone else to use your ID to submit an application.
We recommend you use Chrome or Firefox to access this website.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/associate-students/registration-and-enrolment:
Students enrolling at Partner Institutions on Ulster University validated programmes will be known as Associate Students.
Associate Students can complete their online enrolment via the Ulster University Online Enrolment system to complete registration.
Associate Students should upload a photograph for their Student ID Card.
Student ID cards will be grouped for each programme and returned to the named contact at the Partner Institution for distribution, which in most cases will be the Examinations Office.
There will be a charge of £10 for replacement cards which can be purchased on the Ulster University Online Store
Amendments to Associate Student records should be sent by Course teams on behalf of students to the Collaborative Courses Unit using the below links:
Bulk Module Amendments
Course Leads should use the Bulk Module Amendment form for the same module changes affecting a group of students.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/full-time-fees:
Fees for student from Northern Ireland, Great Britain and Republic of Ireland.
Links to more information on funding for undergraduate courses at Ulster University.
Get more information about undergraduate fees .
Some courses are fully funded by the Department of Health .
These are highlighted in the course information.
Find out about more about:
You do not have to pay fees up-front.
You can take out a tuition fees loan and you can defer payment until you have graduated and are in employment.
Find out more from your local funding body:

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/associate-students/partnership-managers:
For queries regarding Foundation Degrees, the contact details for the relevant Partnership Manager and area can be found in the table below.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/associate-students/library-and-information-resources:
Our campus libraries provide a modern learning space with integrated library services and resources, study space and computer facilities.
As an Ulster associate student, you can:
Find out more through the Ulster University Library.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/associate-students/sports-membership:
On production of a valid Associate Student ID card, students are entitled to become members of Ulster Sports Centres at the concessionary rate of £15 per annum.
Concessionary student rates will also apply to the use of the sports facilities (when available).
Membership of Ulster Students' Sports Union is also available to Associate Students who wish to join a student club or wish to represent Ulster University in competitive sport.
Membership forms are available at each of the sports centres in Coleraine, Jordanstown or Magee.
Annual membership packages are also available.
Please ask at the sports centre reception desk on each campus for further details or visit the sports centre website .

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/associate-students/academic-appeals:
Associate students, who are studying for awards of the University at partner institutions, may appeal to Ulster University, once they have exhausted the internal procedures of the institution at which they are enrolled.
A candidate may appeal on the basis of procedural or other irregularity in the conduct of the original appeal at the institution only.
Associate students should be aware that this procedure does not allow for:
Challenges to the academic judgement of the examiners on your performance (ie marks cannot be appealed); or Complaints about the delivery or management of a course after you have presented yourself for examination; you should raise such concerns through the University's complaints procedures at an earlier stage as soon as they arise.
You must use the SA3 form.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/associate-students/student-complaints:
Associate students, who are students studying a course validated by Ulster University at another Institution, have the right to make a final complaint to Ulster University.
The procedure can be used to complain about any aspect of academic or other services provided by the University.
It cannot be used in cases relating to personal harassment/discrimination, reviews of academic decision or appeals against decisions taken under disciplinary proceedings.
Associate students should note that the complaints procedure cannot be used to challenge the academic judgement of the examiners on your performance.
To avail of the procedure you must have exhausted the complaints system within your institution.
A complaint can be made by an individual or a group of students.
If you are an associate student and wish to make a complaint to Ulster University, please fill out form ASC1.
Associate Student Complaint Form (ASC1)
On this form, please outline the issues of complaint you remain unsatisfied with, following local resolution with your Institution.
Please also include what resolution you are seeking in making your complaint.
Please also enclose any relevant documentation alongside your complaint including the final response from your Institution.
Your complaint should be sent to the Student Complaints Manager.
Upon receipt of this form the complaints officer, within 30 days will arrange for a meeting of the Complaints Review Panel.
The Panel will have the following members:
The panel will meet in private and will have available to it all the documentation relating to the complaint.
The panel will meet with the student to discuss the complaint and with any members of staff involved in the complaint.
The student has the right to accompanied by any member of the Partner Institution.
The decision of the panel will be based on the all evidence available to panel at that time.
The conclusions of the panel will be communicated to the student within 10 working days.
A report containing the conclusions and recommendations will also be sent to the Vice Chancellor of the University and the Head of the Partner Institution.
If the complaint is upheld the Head of the Institution must respond to the Vice-Chancellor and the Chair of the complaints panel outlining the actions that will be taken to resolve the complaint.
If you require further information regarding the student complaint process please do not hesitate to contact the Student Academic Affairs team.
You can reach the team via studentcomplaints@ulster.ac.uk or via 028 70 123838.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/accommodation/belfast:
High quality apartment living in Belfast city centre adjacent to the university campus.
Rooms available in LIV Student and 123 York Street.
Belfast is the perfect home for students who love city living, with accommodation located in the vibrant Cathedral Quarter – the cultural heart of the city, known for its historical buildings, trendy art galleries, and popular pubs and restaurants.
Ulster University offers purpose-built, affordable accommodation at 123 York Street and LIV Student, just steps from the new £250 million Belfast campus.
As one of the largest higher education capital builds in Europe, the campus provides a progressive learning, teaching, and research environment supported by cutting-edge technology.
Traditionally associated with art, the Belfast campus now offers a diverse range of subjects and frequently hosts fashion shows, art exhibitions, and culinary experiences at ‘The Academy’ training restaurant.
Whether you prefer the energy of city life or the tranquility of open spaces like those in Jordanstown, Ulster University’s accommodation options allow you to live and study in the environment that suits you best.
From our superfast free Wi-Fi to our weekly events, 123 York Street has everything to make sure you have the best experience while studying in Belfast.
The building is designed to create an amazing environment for you to study and relax.
Communal facilities range from a huge study room and Cinema-style lounge to our private courtyard and group kitchen.
Enjoy the games room, TV room, outdoor courtyard and more, in 123 York Street’s huge communal spaces.
Working on a group project?
Need some quiet study space?
Our Private Study room is perfect for students in all years of study.
From movie nights to in-house yoga sessions, our incredible residence team host a year-long calendar of events.
Room in a shared apartment
Enjoy your own cosy room with ensuite bathroom in a five or six bedroom apartment.
Shared kitchen and private communal area – perfect for groups or to meet new people!
Choose your room and your preferred view.
Ideal for undergraduates
Your cozy En-suite room awaits, nestled within six-bedroom apartments.
Enjoy the luxury of your own en-suite bathroom, perfect for those moments of privacy.
The shared kitchen and private communal area are ideal for making new friends.
Catch up on the latest on Netflix with each apartment use of a smart TV.
Each bedroom boasts a small double bed, under bed storage, wardrobe, and aircon heating & cooling for your comfort.
Explore our communal spaces, including the laundry room, pool room, TV room, study room, and café, where endless opportunities for connection and relaxation await.
Welcome to your vibrant student community!
Insta worthy room with a view!
An increasingly popular room option, Two-Bedroom Apartments come with two bedrooms, a shared bathroom and a shared living space.
The best mix of Ensuite & Studio combined!
Ideal for friends who want a balance between privacy and socialising.
Good for students who prefer a quieter, more independent lifestyle.
Your own luxury space with kitchen, bathroom, workspace.
Studios at 123 York Street are designed for the modern student to define their future in their own space.
Ideal for mature Master, PHD and Postgraduate students and those who prefer a quieter, more independent lifestyle.
We are located opposite Ulster University Belfast campus on the edge of the city’s bustling Cathedral Quarter.
If you are looking for amazing indoor & outdoor social spaces, cleverly designed bedrooms & studios, 24-hour support and a thriving student community then we’ve got you covered.
In your room you’ll have a comfortable double bed, complete with under-bed storage, charging sockets, and a built-in lamp!
Each room has a large wardrobe with built in drawers for all your clothes, and a handy study desk with noticeboard and shelves.
Situated on floors 1 – 8 you’ll be sharing with 5 or 6 other people.
Situated on floors 2 – 12 you'll be sharing with 5 or 6 other people.
These comfortable and spacious rooms are going to leave you feeling that silver is the new gold!
Situated on floors 5 – 12 you'll be sharing with 4, 5 or 6 other people providing spacious living areas and cracking views!
IWant that halls experience, but fancy a bit more privacy?
Why not go for your very own studio!
In a Standard Studio you’ll have your very own apartment, a home from home!
Let’s start with the super comfortable bed (with a mattress to die for!), complete with underbed storage, charging sockets and a built in lamp!
You’ll also have a large desk with a noticeboard and shelves where you can get your study on, and a spacious wardrobe with drawers for all your clothes!
Flip 180 and on the other side of the room you’ll have your kitchen area, where you can find an electric hob, combi-oven, built-in fridge/freezer unit, sink and storage cupboards.
And for when you’ve cooked up a storm, you’ll also have your own table with a spare chair for a friend!
You can keep your studio bright and airy with its amazing floor-to-ceiling windows, or usher in a bit of ambiance with its blackout curtains – perfect for making sure you get your beauty sleep!
On the wall there’s a full length mirror (perfect for those pre-night-out snaps!), with sockets underneath making trailing hair dryer/straightener cables a thing of the past.
You’ll also have a large wet room bathroom, with a toilet, sink and a HUGE shower, so you can make sure you always look your best!
All studios come with all bills included!
Situated on floors 5, 6 and 8.
You’ll have your kitchen area, where you can find an electric hob, combi-oven, built-in fridge/freezer unit, sink and storage cupboards.
Situated on floor 2 with easy access to the outer courtyard.
In an Accessible Studio you’ll have your very own apartment, but carefully designed to provide extra accessibility to suit your needs.
The room has a single bed with greater floor space and a wet room style bathroom
Jordanstown makes the perfect home for students who love fresh air, beach walks and outdoor activities.
The ‘wellness village’ vibes provide a calm atmosphere – perfect for study with lots of opportunities to de-stress and take a break in the leafy surroundings.
At Jordanstown you have the benefit of on site access to world class sports facilities that are open all year round to our students and members of the public.
Dalriada Student Village located only seven miles from the vibrant Belfast City Centre, provides the perfect mix of the great outdoors and busy city living.
The accommodation has a village feel, surrounded by lush lawns and trees, it is a short walk to the Loughshore Park and the stunning views over Belfast Lough.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/accommodation/coleraine:
A laid back campus based on the world famous North Coast.
The Belfast to L'Derry train line runs past the campus entrance making it easily accessible.
When you live here you benefit from having the great outdoors right on your door step with beautiful beaches, watersports galore and woodland walks.
Spend your free time exploring amazing attractions such as the Giants Causeway and Game of Thrones filming locations.
The local seaside towns are packed with cafes, bars and great places to eat so it’s the perfect location to catch up with friends and have some down time.
The student hub offers a laundry and the ‘Hive’ social space for you and your friends to meet, play pool, watch a movie, use gaming consoles or go old school with our retro selection of board games.
Coleraine campus offers you excellent teaching spaces, learning resource centre and computer suites.
The Riverside Theatre means there’s always drama and laughter on offer and our state of the art Sports Centre onsite will help keep you active.
The Students Union  is onsite with Sabbatical Officers on hand to support you.
Choose your dining option from the different catering outlets available and bar facility.
There are a range of apartments available modernised to a high standard.
Each kitchen/living dining area is fully equipped and spacious to facilitate relaxation after a day in class.
Cranagh Village is an ideal place to both relax and study.
Cranagh Village contains 70, five-bedroom apartments situated around pretty courtyards on the university campus.
This terraced housing development adjacent to all university facilities provides a comfortable location to aid a students' transition into university life.
Ideally located adjacent to the university campus this development consists of both four and five bedroom apartments.
From this site you have ready access to all the University facilities such as the Learning Resource Centre, 24-hour computer labs, Students Union and  the sports facilities.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/accommodation/derry-londonderry:
Enjoy student life in one of Europe's most vibrant cities.
The campus is set in the vibrant city of Derry ~ Londonderry, providing students with a cultural experience you won’t get anywhere else.
Discover the history of the city by visiting attractions such as the Derry Walls or take advantage of the year-round events and festivals.
If you live in Derry ~ Londonderry, you cannot miss the annual Halloween carnival parade.
The city’s favourite holiday was once crowned the best Halloween celebration in the world.
The city is packed with lively bars and clubs, great places to eat or have a coffee.
There’s something for everyone here!
Living on campus gives you access to the on-site restaurant, cafes and cash machines.
The sports facilities include a multi-purpose sports hall and fitness studio, as well as superb grass and synthetic sports pitches next to the student halls of residence at the Duncreggan Student Village.
For information regarding car parking please visit Car Parking at Ulster University.
Coppin House is in an ideal location adjacent to the Derry ~ Londonderry campus fronting the Strand Road, one of the city's main thoroughfares.
It is located next to PureGym, Sainsburys and a 24-hour convenience store.
Duncreggan Student village comprises of 14, three storey blocks offering a mix of self-catering accommodation ranging from ensuite study bedrooms to a selection with shared bathrooms.
You can enjoy the on-site 4G floodlit football pitch, a large grass pitch and a multi-purpose Sports Pavilion.
Our high-speed Wi-Fi ensures you can stay connected with friends and family as well as supporting your studies.
This accommodation offers a versatile range of living options to suit every need, with a total of 40 beds spread across various configurations over 3 floors, from cozy 1-bed apartments to spacious 6-bed units, residents can choose from a mix of ensuite and shared accommodation.
The perfect home from home for mature and postgraduate PhD students.
Check out our off-campus accommodation options!
Enjoy the freedom of independent living with all the comforts of home.
Explore our listings and find your ideal home away from home!

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/accommodation/residents-life:
When you live in student accommodation you become part of a family where you can enjoy exclusive activities, events and trips.
Not only will you get to meet new people, gain new skills for future employment and reap the financial benefits of this opportunity but you will have great fun along the way.
Applications to join the Resident Assistant (RA) Team 2025/26  will open 12th January 2025 until 7th February  2025.
The telephone numbers you need to us to contact ResLife.
The ResLife Team organise residents only events giving lots of opportunities to meet new people and have fun.
Get in touch about maintenance issues, transferring rooms or leaving your accommodation early.
Get the latest information about your accommodation and ResLife job opportunities.
View a step by step operational guide for all of the appliances within your accommodation.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/accommodation/private-accommodation:
Some students decide to live completely independently from Ulster University and choose private rental accommodation.
Homestay is a type of accommodation where students live with local hosts in their homes, rather than in university halls...
Homestay
Find trusted student accommodation across Northern Ireland with StudentPad.
Ulster University and QUB
Find flatshares, house shares, and rooms to rent with SpareRoom – the UK’s busiest roommate and rental site.
UK's Number 1 Flatshare Site
Our Community Relations programme promotes positive relationships between students and local communities.
It works with resident groups, councils, and the PSNI to encourage respectful, responsible student behaviour.
The initiative raises awareness around noise, safety, and community engagement, supported by tools like the SafeZone app for added security.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/accommodation/homestay:
Earn up to £7,500/ €14,000 tax free per year
Homestay is commonly used by universities worldwide to expand housing capacity and build stronger ties with the community, it is a structured alternative to typical on campus accommodation.
The initiative aligns with Ulster University's People, Place & Partnership priorities by enhancing student life, community engagement, and financial sustainability.
Homeowners benefit through the Rent a Room Scheme (up to £7,500/ €14,000 tax-free annually), while the university gains from stronger local ties and greater global appeal.
Become a Homestay Host and give Ulster University students a safe and welcoming place to stay, whilst earning extra income....
Give students a place to thrive!
Homestay offers a practical and convenient accommodation option within a local household.
Find your room today

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/accommodation/need-to-know/application-process:
Find out more information about how to apply to Ulster University accommodation at Belfast, Coleraine, and Derry ~ Londonderry campuses.
Applications will open 1st March 2025.
Applicants who have made Ulster their Firm Choice will be emailed their unique Student ID number from 1st March 2025.
No need to worry about not having a room for September, Ulster University is offering “No Course, no Contract”.
As a Conditional Firm/Unconditional Firm student you can apply for accommodation before the 7th July and be guaranteed a room offer at your campus of choice.
Please note that you cannot submit a request for accommodation unless you have received and have Firmly accepted an offer from Ulster.
You can Firmly accept an offer in UCAS Track once you have received offers from all the universities to which you have applied.
Where need and priority are not an issue the date order of application will be the criteria is used for allocation.
On some campuses based on demand for accommodation students whose home address is within 20 miles of the campus may not qualify for accommodation.
To apply you will pay £100 booking fee which is fully refundable until you have accepted an accommodation room offer.
There is no obligation to university accommodation until you have accepted an accommodation offer.
If you are unsuccessful in securing a place at Ulster University, you will be released from your accommodation contract.
Our ResLife teams are making plans for a full ResLife programme of events for residents to enjoy their university experience & make lifelong memories!
Conditional  & Unconditional Insurance Applicants Please note: You cannot book accommodation without making Ulster your first choice.
If Ulster is your Insurance choice university and your place here is confirmed when the exam results are released in August, you can request accommodation at that stage.
In previous years, nearly all new students who took up a place at Ulster during the Clearing period were offered rooms in the accommodation listed on our website.
At Ulster, we recognise that deciding to move to another country to study is a big step and, as well as coping with your academic work, you will be adjusting to living and working in a different environment.
We appreciate the importance that international students place on their accommodation needs when settling quickly into a new environment far from home *.
Therefore, we offer certain guarantees of accommodation as follows:
Full time Students from Overseas (These are students from outside the European Union): are guaranteed an offer of accommodation in the first year of study.
This guarantee only applies to students who are categorised as “overseas” for fee purposes, have firmly accepted an offer of a course of study for a minimum of one academic year, and whose completed accommodation application is received by 14th August in the year admission is sought.
Applications may be made throughout the year, but the guarantee does not apply after the 14th August deadline.
Visiting/Exchange Students from Outside the European Union: if you are a student from outside the EU and you apply under the Exchange, ISEP, or Junior Year/Study Abroad programmes to study at Ulster for a single semester only, you will be guaranteed an offer of accommodation for Semester 1 provided that your completed application is received by 14th August in the year of admission.
An offer of accommodation for Semester 2 will be guaranteed provided a completed application form is received by 14th December in the year of admission.
Other Students from Outside UK/Ireland (This applies to student within the European Union): if you are a student on Exchange or other programmes (for example, Socrates) you may be offered accommodation provided there are vacancies remaining.
* If you have an eligible offer and apply by the 7th July, you are guaranteed a room in university accommodation once you are accepted onto the course.
Our International students who apply for accommodation by 14th August for Semester 1 & 14th December for Semester 2 are guaranteed a room in accommodation.
Choose from a range of accommodation types to suit every budget and preference.
Residential Services are delighted to offer International students the opportunity to make payments for accommodation via 'Transfer Mate' and enjoy the following benefits:
Students who are attending Ulster University through a course which is fully funded i.e.
your accommodation fees are being paid by Ulster University International Department or direct to Residential Services should apply using the APPLY NOW tab and choose the 'Overseas Funded student' option.
This means you will not be required to make a payment when accepting your room offer.
Any student who is receiving funding directly from their home institution to pay their accommodation fees should not choose this option.
NEED HELP?
If you have any queries regarding your course, funding or arrival to Ulster University please Contact the Team - Ulster University Global and they will be happy to help.
Can't find anyone who can act as your guarantor in UK?
The University has partnered with Housing Hand to help you find a UK Guarantor through their Guarantor service.
Reslife want you to help you settle into University life with confidence.
If you have a disability, health concern or other requirement we are here to help you.
We will make reasonable adjustments for students that need extra support within their accommodation due to a long-term medical condition or sensory/physical impairment.
This may include making adaptations to a room or allocating a room in a specific location to ensure you can be involved fully in University life and the Student experience.
* Student health and wellbeing is fundamental for all students to enable positive experiences of university life.
It is important that you take responsibility for self-care and connect with the appropriate support services such as your GP, Student Wellbeing Services , Sports Services all of which promote health and well being .
* You are advised to register with a local Doctor/General Practitioner.
Assistance with this can be given via Student Wellbeing.
* Information regarding local medical practices is available at Student Well Being Offices or on the Student Wellbeing website
Take a moment to read our allocation criteria.
The following sets out the criteria used in the allocation of student accommodation to those who apply to the University.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/accommodation/need-to-know/costs-involved:
Before applying, you need to understand the full cost of accommodation and all the funding available to you.
Funding may come from a student loan, your parents, scholarships, bank overdraft, weekend work etc.
Appropriate funding needs to be in place before you commit to a university room.
Once you accept a room contract, you will have to pay for your contracted period.
To make budget planning easier, we listed weekly and annual rates for our accommodation.
Applicants will be required to pay a £100 Booking Fe e when submitting their application.
Once you accept an accommodation offer from University, the booking fee becomes non-refundable.
The fee covers three elements:
If you apply for accommodation but do not get on to a course of study at the University, your booking fee will be refunded .
The booking fee only becomes non-refundable:
Before picking your preferred payment option read our ResLife Fees Guidance for hints and tips.
Pay in full in advance
Pay on student loan dates
Payable by Recurring Card Payment or by card on site.
* Guarantor Required if choosing to pay in instalments
In order to be eligible to pay rent in instalments, UK students need to provide the details of someone who will act as their guarantor.
The guarantor is usually a parent or guardian , but can be a sibling or a family friend, as long as the person named is also resident in the UK and is prepared to accept the obligations of being a guarantor.
This means accepting that they are legally bound to pay any outstanding rent if you (the student) fail to do so for any reason.
The accommodation owner may need to verify the identity of the proposed guarantor and can refuse to accept any guarantor who cannot be located on the electoral roll.
However they will not verify their residence status or income and so any adult UK resident is acceptable as a guarantor in most circumstances.
If you are a UK student but you don’t have someone who will act as your guarantor, you can use the Ulster University Guarantor Service
Students from outside the UK do not need to provide the details of a guarantor because they are usually required to pay the full year's rent in advance of arrival.
This includes students living in the Republic of Ireland, Gibraltar, the Isle of Man and the Channel Islands.
If you are resident outside the UK but have someone in the UK who is prepared to act as your guarantor, it may be possible for you to pay in instalments.
If you are unable to pay in full  Ulster University  is proud to partner with Housing Hand for the Ulster University Guarantor Service to help UK, EU and International students, provide a qualifying UK Guarantor.
Choose to pay your accommodation fees using one of the following options:
Full academic year & Single Semester contracts
Overview:
Change your Card Details
Full academic year contracts only
Things to consider:
Single semester or full academic year contracts
Please see the ResLife fees guidance for further information on missed payments and associated charges.
For more on student funding, including hardship funds and loans, visit Student Money Advice Team.
Students usually leave the accommodation in a reasonable condition after their contract ends.
You will receive guidance on how to do this before the end of your contracted period.
It involves removing all rubbish and personal belongings from your room/apartment and ensuring the bedroom and communal areas are left clean and tidy.
It is important that all equipment and furniture is still in a fair condition.
If fabrics, furniture or fittings are deemed to be in poor condition, damage and cleaning charges may apply.
ResLife will ensure that all resident students are supported on their university journey.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/accommodation/need-to-know/before-you-move-in:
Ulster University has a range of accommodation available to suit your needs, taste and budget.
Our accommodation is located beside or adjacent to University facilities and services and so we can allocate you to the best option also let us know if you have a preference for single or mixed gender, zero alcohol and quieter zones.
Ulster University offer an 'accommodation guarantee' to all Conditional Firm (CF) and Unconditional Firm (UF) students through UCAS who apply for accommodation before 7th July and are accepted onto their first choice course.
New students will receive an email in Spring time advising applications are open and giving you your Banner number and information on how to apply.
The full application process is done online.
You will be required to pay the £100 booking fee by credit/debit card.
International students are guaranteed a room if they apply by the 14th August for first semester (or 14th December for the second semester).
The booking fee insures student personal possessions within the room, the University in respect of non-attributable damage and contributes to the social fund for residents events throughout the year.
The booking fee becomes non-refundable only when you have been sent and accepted a room offer online.
What length of accommodation contracts are available?
Accommodation contracts operate for 37 weeks from mid-September to early June, 42 and 44 week contracts from early September to later June early July.
Students can apply for semester one contract only, however priority is given to students requiring accommodation for the full academic year.
If you can provide us with the unique Group Reference we can manually add that to your application, however, this is only after confirmation has been given from the other group members that they wish to include you in their group.
When completing the online application, you can confirm your preference for single or mixed sex accommodation.
We make every effort to allocate rooms in accordance with your stated preference, but it is not always possible.
Email accommodation@ulster.ac.uk and request to view the accommodation.
Please be aware that the  accommodation is used for conferences and event during the summer.
We have a full Residents Life Team who are here to help you settle in and while you're here.
The ResLife Coordinators (RLCS) manage the student residences between 16.30 and 3.30 and they deal with any issues that arise at night and organise a range of events and activities to strengthen the ResLife community.
Night Support Assistants (NSAs) are available throughout the night on campus to deal with health and safety issues, provide a reception service to students/visitors, and they also have a disciplinary role ensuring that residents behave in a considerate manner.
Resident Assistants (RAs) are experienced students who are trained in health and safety and are there to help students by providing peer support on issues such as homesickness, isolation, loneliness and signpost residents to the appropriate support services available within the University.
NSAs and RAs are supported by University Security who are available 24 hours a day seven days a week.
I use a wheelchair and would like to live in University accommodation.
Is there accessible accommodation available?
Yes, there are a number of wheelchair accessible rooms in shared flats or single occupancy flats available for students with a disability.
These flats have accessible bathroom and kitchen facilities.
All accommodation have accessible parking spaces in close proximity to residences.
Ulster University can make reasonable adjustments and provide additional equipment if appropriate.
If you have a disability and have disclosed this on your UCAS application, it will be signalled to AccessAbility staff within the Student Wellbeing team
The AccessAbility team will then liaise with you and the various University departments to ensure the appropriate support is in place to aid a smooth transition into full-time education.
If you have not declared your disability or you happen to develop a disability once at University then you should contact AccessAbility immediately.
The ResLife team can assist you with this.
Ulster University tries in so far as possible to treat all students the same regardless of age.
You are eligible for accommodation and subject to all of the normal rules and regulations.
The University is not in locos parentis and it is essential that we have up to date contact details of someone who is able to operate in a parental capacity in the event of an emergency.
Once you are enrolled at Ulster University you will be contacted by Student Support who will inform you of the services available within the University.
First year students applying through UCAS will be offered a room once you have been accepted onto your original course at Ulster University.
You will receive an email to the email address you registered when you applied online advising you that a room offer has been made: to view the offer you will be required to log onto the accommodation portal (using the username and password you used to apply online initially) and either accept or reject the offer.
Applicants to Belfast LIV and 123 York Street will receive a tenancy contract  from the  accommodation provider.
If you are in any doubt regarding the status of your application, you should contact the appropriate Residential Services Office.
The following Public Transport for Students section has been collated to inform students of the relevant Translink products available.
There are a couple of reasons why your application has not been or can't submit.
Here are a few things to try that may help.
Ensure that you have picked at least 2 room preferences, this means if we do not have availability we can always offer you your second choice.
If you are working of a laptop or phone, try to switch onto a computer.
You haven't paid the £100 booking fee.
The booking fee must be paid or we will not receive your application.
If issues still persist, please do not hesitate to get in contact with the Residential Services team - 02871675750
In order to apply for accommodation you will require a student ID number.
You will receive an email with this number once you have accepted your course offer and made Ulster University your firm choice.
Please note your UCAS number is a separate ID number from your Student  ID number.
Criteria used in the allocation of student accommodation to those who apply to the University.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/accommodation/belfast/123-york-street:
On the doorstep of the city centre, the accommodation is a 2-minute walk to University campus and local amenities.
Our Residential and Facilities Management offices are onsite so there’s always support and advice available – if you need it.
You want to achieve your independence and we are committed to helping and supporting you to do just that.
In 123 York Street we promote the mental, physical health and emotional wellbeing of all staff and residents.
Health and Wellbeing is at the forefront of the ResLife programme and promoting good mental health is a priority.
We actively encourage students and staff to look after their mental health and encourage residents to discuss any issues relating to emotional wellbeing without fear of stigma.
Security staff are available throughout the night to address any issues which may arise and our Resident Assistants are available outside of office hours to provide additional advice and assistance to residents as required.
£544 on acceptance of room offer
Guarantor Required if choosing to pay in instalments
We understand that everyone is different; and that means your preferences and needs are different too.
Choose the room type which best suits your needs.
Enjoy your own cosy room with ensuite in a five or six bedroom apartment.
Shared kitchen and private communal area with TV – perfect for groups or to meet new people!
Kitchen, bathroom, workspace.
An increasingly popular room option, this apartment comes with two bedrooms, a shared bathroom and a shared living space.
The best mix of Ensuite & Studio living combined!
These rooms are ideal for friends, siblings or couples who wish to share an apartment.
Andrew Patterson
Single in 2 Bed Apartment
James Crawford
Single Ensuite
Mirabel Awaiko
Sriram Vaithianathan
123 York Street is located adjacent to the Belfast campus.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/accommodation/belfast/liv-student:
Have a look inside the LIV Student apartments.
We are located on the edge of the city’s bustling Cathedral Quarter, just 30 seconds away from Ulster University’s Belfast campus.
Enough space to host a thriving student community of over 700 students.
This property offers a mixture of shared apartments and studio rooms spread over 13 floors, it is less than 30-seconds walk to our Belfast campus.
Residents have access to the onsite gym, cinema room, karaoke room, café, laundry and much more.
It is a great social space for students to meet up, hang out and study.
In LIV Student we promote the mental, physical health and emotional wellbeing of all staff and residents.
Studios at LIV Student are designed for the modern student to define their future in their own space.
Single  occupancy only.
James Gibson
Bronze Ensuite
Kieran Getty
Bronze Studio
LIV Student is located adjacent to the Belfast campus.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/accommodation/belfast/dalriada-student-village:
Located close to the Shore Road and with easy access to on site Sports facilities, this accommodation is primarily based on five person apartments, clustered around a number of attractive courtyards with on-site parking facilities.
The student village comprises of low-rise buildings set around attractive courtyards with wide open grass areas providing a great space for outdoor exercise, al-fresco dining or just relaxing with friends.
The village has a communal feel, encouraging students to mix outdoors with an external bandstand and amphitheatre.
There’s a self-service launderette and lots of secure parking spaces.
With a Sports Centre on site you have easy access to a range of facilities including gym, health suite, classes and racquet sports.
Our Residential and Facilities Management offices are onsite so there’s always support and advice available – if you need it.
Our village environment actively helps to encourage your wellbeing, through organised social activities, the “Hive” social space and the commitment of the ResLife team.
In Dalriada Village we promote the mental, physical health and emotional wellbeing of all staff and residents.
ResLife Night Assistants and security staff are available throughout the night to address any issues which may arise and our Resident Assistants are available outside of office hours to provide additional advice and assistance to residents as required.
Each resident has their own single bedroom in a five-bedroom apartment.
The bedroom is fully furnished and contains an ensuite bathroom with a WC, wash hand basin and shower.
All residents share a fully equipped spacious kitchen and living/dining area.
If you require a larger sized bedroom for additional space and storage, then choose an enhanced bedroom.
There are 2 types;
Larger sized ensuite bedroom with a double bed in a five-bedroom apartment, suitable for single occupancy.
A larger ensuite bedroom with double bed, in a two-bedroom apartment.
This room offers a greater degree of space for study and storage, it would suit mature/postgraduate students who want additional space and privacy.
Suitable for single occupancy only.
Integrated within the complex are a number of adapted rooms for students with mobility or sensorial requirements.
If you require an adapted apartment, please contact the Residential Services office and/or the University's Access Ability Adviser well in advance of your anticipated arrival.
Dalriada contains a limited number of two-bedroom apartments suitable for family occupation, couples or mature students requiring more independence.
It comprises a double ensuite room, twin bedroom, family bathroom, kitchen and lounge area.
If you are interested in the family accommodation, then please contact the Residential Services office directly.
Suitable for a maximum of 2 adults and 2 children.
Dalriada Village is located on the Jordanstown campus.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/accommodation/coleraine/agherton-village:
This development of apartments and townhouses is in the beautiful seaside town of Portstewart, the heart of student night life and approximately three miles from campus.
Transport to and from campus is readily available by bus from the main entrance of the campus to the development.
Car parking is available on site free of charge.
Agherton is located adjacent to a Tesco's superstore and is in walking distance to the nightspots of Portstewart.
There are a range of apartments available modernized to a high standard.
A high speed broadband service with Wi-Fi is also included.
Students have their own fully furnished bedroom in a two, three or four bedroom apartment.
Free car parking is available.
Ideal for mature students requiring a higher level of independence and quieter environment.
Ideal for students seeking good sized apartment to both relax and study with friends.
Errigal/Knocklayde is located on the Coleraine campus.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/accommodation/coleraine/cranagh-student-village:
The majority of the five  bedroom apartments have five single bedrooms with ensuites with your own shower, wash hand basin and wc.
Each three storey block has two apartments that have four single ensuite rooms and one enhanced ensuite room  which is a larger room with a double bed.
Each two storey block has two apartments  with four sin ensuite rooms and one enhanced ensuite room  which is a larger room with a double bed.
Each apartment has a fully   fully equipped spacious kitchen/living/dining area is shared with your flat mates and car parking is available within the village.
Residents have access to the ‘Hive’, a social space for students to meet up to watch TV, play games consoles, play pool or just hang out.
There is a laundry onsite and there are picnic tables, views of the river and plenty of open space for leisure activities.
The accommodation is adjacent to the library, main faculty buildings, Students Union, state of the art multi-purpose Sports Centre and onsite bar.
Our Residential and Facilities Management office is onsite so there’s always support and advice available – if you need it.
We know you want to achieve your independence and we are committed to helping and supporting you to do just that.
In Cranagh Village we promote the mental, physical health and emotional wellbeing of all staff and residents.
We support your wellbeing through organised social activities, events and the enthusiasm of the ResLife team.
I deal for students seeking to relax and study in a modern bedroom with its own bathroom facilities.
2025/26 PRICE
If you require a larger bedroom for more space and storage, then an enhanced room is for you.
These provide additional floor space plus a double bed and are located throughout the development.
These rooms are ideal for couples who wish to share a bedroom.
These rooms are larger than single rooms and contain a double bed, double desk, study space and an ensuite bathroom.
Ideal for mature students, friends and visiting academics requiring a higher level of independence and quieter environment.
The apartment contains one double ensuite bedroom and an enhanced bedroom with separate bathroom.
The apartment can be booked as one unit, or each bedroom can be booked separately.
If you require an adapted unit, please contact the Residential Services office and/or the University's AccessAbility Service well in advance of your anticipated arrival.
Cranagh Village is located on the Coleraine campus.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/accommodation/coleraine/errigal-knocklayde:
Located on Coleraine campus, this terraced housing development adjacent to all university facilities provides a comfortable location to aid a students' transition into university life.
Located on Coleraine campus, there are 17, 6-bedroom houses with a shared bathroom and communal living/dining area.
If you prefer to live alone, we have 12, one-bedroom flats also available.
Within the houses you have your own spacious bedroom which contains a vanity area and ample storage for all your personal and academic needs.
Within the shared space, the kitchen is fully equipped and makes the perfect place to catch up with your housemates.
Carparking is available for all residents.
There is a laundry onsite and there are picnic tables, views of the river and plenty of open space for leisure activities.
In Errigal & Knocklayde we promote the mental, physical health and emotional wellbeing of all staff and residents.
Each individual study bedroom has a built in wardrobe, wash-hand basin as standard, two shower rooms and two separate toilets.
In the nine-bedroom apartment three shower rooms and three separate toilets are provided.
All of the kitchens, shower rooms and toilets have been recently refurbished.
Each kitchen is fully fitted with a microwave, hob and oven, fridge freezer, kettle/toaster and breakfast bar.
The living area has comfortable lounge furniture.
The kitchen/living dining area is cleaned once per week.
There are 12 one bedroom (two students share a bedroom) ensuite flats within the Errigal/Knocklayde complex.
All rooms have double beds.
The flats have a compact, fully fitted kitchen/dining area.
Each ensuite unit has a shower and a toilet.
By special arrangement, flats may be allocated on a single occupancy basis, should you require more space or greater privacy.
All of the flats will have access to a high speed broadband with Wi-Fi service.
The two person flats in Knocklayde are designed to meet mobility and sensorial needs and have designated car spaces close by.
The study bedrooms have generous space standards.
For more information on the accommodation please contact us.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/accommodation/coleraine/maple-lodge:
Each resident has their own private bedroom in a four or five bedroom apartment..
Each bedroom contains a bed, desk, study chair, wardrobe and wash hand basin.
You share a generous kitchen living dining area which is fully equipped and includes a washing machine.
The utility costs are included within the rental charge with a cap on the use  electricity -£5.00 per person per week
A high speed Wi-Fi service and free car-parking are available.
The Residential Services office is located adjacent to the site.
Here you can keep up to date with all the latest news, report maintenance requests and collect parcels.
Resident Support Assistants are available outside of office hours to provide advice and assistance.
Ideal for students seeking reasonably sized apartment to both relax and study with friends.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/accommodation/derry-londonderry/coppin-house:
Coppin House is in an ideal location adjacent to the Derry~Londonderry campus fronting the Strand Road, one of the city's main thoroughfares.
It is located next to Puregym, Sainsburys and a 24-hour convenience store.
Coppin House is adjacent to the Derry~Londonderry campus fronting the busy Strand Road, with a supermarket a short walk away.
There are five floors of accommodation accessible via a lift.
Access is controlled into and throughout the site by an access control system and CCTV is provided and monitored by university security.
Security is a priority, with access granted a control system and CCTV monitored by university security.
Each floor contains 16 spacious single bedrooms and two large fully equipped kitchens.
A movie room and social space is available on each floor for residents to unwind.
Our high-speed Wi-Fi ensures you can stay connected with friends and family as well as supporting your studies and parking is provided.
Students residing at the Coppin House are advised that there are a limited number of permits that allow access to parking at this site as well as other University carparks, and these will only be available from the 1 September 2025, via the University Online Store .
These permits are valid from 15 September 2025 to 8 June 2026, and allow access to the Coppin House Car Park, as well as other University car parking.
When the Coppin House car park is at capacity, please use the Duncreggan Upper car park, located on the Duncreggan Road, which is a 3-minute walk from the student village.
We encourage all residents to use public transport, cycle, or walk to get around.
Our Residential and Facilities Management offices are based at Duncreggan Student Village with support and advice available – if you need it.
In Coppin House we promote the mental, physical health and emotional wellbeing of all staff and residents.
Each spacious study bedroom is fully equipped with a bed, desk, chair, wardrobe and bedside locker.
A self-contained one bedroom, one or two-person apartment is available for mature students seeking more independence and privacy.
If you require an adapted unit, please contact the Residential Services office and/or the University's Disability Advisor well in advance of your anticipated arrival.
Coppin House is a 3-5 minute walk away from the main campus buildings.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/accommodation/derry-londonderry/duncreggan-student-village:
The village offers 158 single study bedrooms, in two and five bedroom apartments which have been recently refurbished.
En-suite apartments are equipped with a dishwasher.
Picnic tables and barbeque space is available outside as well as parking facilities.
The village contains two launderettes with vending machines for after-hours snacks.
Students residing at the Duncreggan Student Village are advised that there are a limited number of permits that allow access to parking at this site as well as other University carparks, and these will only be available from 1 September 2025, via the University Online Store .
These permits are valid from 15 September 2025 to 8 June 2026, and allow access to the Duncreggan Student Village Car Park, and the Duncreggan Upper Car Park, as well as other University car parking.
When the Duncreggan Student Village car park is at capacity, please use the Duncreggan Upper car park, located on the Duncreggan Road, which is a 3-minute walk from the student village.
Our village environment actively helps to encourage your wellbeing, through organised social activities, trips, the “Hive” social space and the commitment of the ResLife team.
In Duncreggan we promote the mental, physical health and emotional wellbeing of all staff and residents.
There are 400 bed spaces provided through a selection of six bedroom apartments each bedroom with its own ensuite bathroom facility.
Each ensuite bathroom contains a WC, a wash hand basin and a shower unit.
All of the bedrooms are fully fitted with built in wardrobe, bed, desk and study chair.
The residents of the apartment share the fully equipped kitchen/dining area.
72 of these bedrooms are provided in luxury six bedroom apartments which contain a larger bedroom, kingsize beds and a kitchen equipped with soft furniture, coffee maker, TV and DVD player.
A number of rooms are available throughout the development for students with mobility and sensorial issues.
These rooms are ideal for friends, siblings or couples who wish to share a bedroom.
These rooms contain twin single beds, double desk and chair space plus a larger sized bedroom with ensuite.
A self-contained two-bedroom apartment for students with children who require their own privacy and independence.
If you require an adapted unit, please contact the Residential Services office and or the University's Accessibility Advisor well in advance of your anticipated arrival.
Price on application
Duncreggan Village is a 6 - 7 minute walk away from the main campus buildings.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/accommodation/derry-londonderry/magazine-street:
The Magazine Street accommodation comprises of a mid-terrace five-bay three-storey red brick townhouse, dating from c.1840 and located just west of the historic Magazine Gate, and adjacent to the City Walls.
Ideal for PHd and mature students
This accommodation offers a versatile range of living options to suit every need, with a total of 40 beds spread across various configurations over 3 floors, from cosy 1-bed apartments to spacious 6-bed units, residents can choose from a mix of ensuite and shared accommodation.
Nestled within the historic charm of Derry~Londonderry on the quaint Magazine Street, this student accommodation offers a perfect blend of convenience and character, just a stone's throw away from the iconic Derry walls.
Situated amidst the vibrant energy of the city centre, this accommodation enjoys a prime location within walking distance of Ulster University Campus.
Choose from a mix of ensuite and shared accommodation, ensuring a personalised living experience tailored to your preferences and budget.
The inclusion of a lift ensures accessibility for all residents, regardless of any mobility challenges.
The private courtyard is super outside social space.
This accommodation is car free.
With nearby transport links and the city centre just minutes away, you won’t need a car — and it’s better for the planet too!
In Magazine Street we promote the mental, physical health and emotional wellbeing of all staff and residents.
ResLife Night Assistant and ResLife Co-Ordinator are available throughout the night to address any issues which may arise and our Resident Assistant is available outside of office hours to provide additional advice and assistance to residents as required.
For those seeking solitude and independence, we offer four 1-bed apartments, providing a peaceful retreat within our student community.
Each apartment features a cosy bedroom, a well-appointed kitchenette, and access to shared facilities, offering residents all the comforts of home in a private setting.
Step into the charm of your own private abode within our 4-bed house, single beds, a shared living space, a fully equipped kitchen, and shared bathrooms, offering a warm and welcoming atmosphere for housemates to call home.
For those who thrive in a communal setting, our 5-bed apartments with shared bathrooms offer a dynamic living environment where friendships flourish and memories are made.
These spacious units feature shared living areas, and a communal kitchen, fostering a sense of camaraderie and connection among residents.
Enjoy the luxury of privacy and convenience in our 5-bed apartments with ensuite bathrooms.
Each room comes complete with its own private bathroom, these modern and spacious units provide the perfect balance of independence and community living.
Experience the ultimate student living experience in our 6-bed apartments with ensuite bathrooms.
These contemporary units offer ample space for residents to study, relax, and socialise, with each room featuring its own private bathroom for added comfort and convenience.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/accommodation/derry-londonderry/mount-royal:
For International, Mature, PG and PhD students
Designed and maintained to be a home from home for mature, postgraduate & PhD students studying at our Derry ~ Londonderry campus who can take full advantage of the 48 -week contract which includes the Christmas, Easter, and summer breaks.
In the heart of Derry ~ Londonderry
Located just a few minutes from the University and Derry ~ Londonderry's busy city centre which is full of history and culture and centrally located between the university and the city centre, adjacent to local amenities, library, Students Union, gym, transport links, restaurants, takeaways, bars, and pubs.
A charming self-contained apartment
This complex of 25 charming self-contained one-bedroom apartments includes a separate fully equipped kitchen, furnished living, dining area and bathroom.
Each apartment has gas central heating and pay as you use electricity supply.
(Broadband included in the rental price).
A self-contained one bedroom, suitable for one or two people.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/accommodation/need-to-know:
Important frequently asked questions and answers for Ulster University accommodation.
Everything you need to know about the residential accommodation facilities at Ulster University.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/accommodation/need-to-know/moving-in:
Prior to the start of your contract, you will receive an email with instructions to complete your online induction and book your arrival date and time.
All students can book to arrive from the beginning of their contract.
Arrival dates and check-in locations will depend on your contract start date, as well as the location of your accommodation.
Our ResLife team will be available to welcome you, help you settle in, and introduce you to our Welcome Week events.
To ensure we can support you during your move in, please make sure to arrive at your scheduled slot.
If you need to arrive outside of your scheduled check-in slot, please contact the relevant Residential Services Office in advance to make alternative arrangements.
Students who require accommodation earlier than the permitted arrival due to academic reasons or overseas orientation, should contact the appropriate Residential Services Office to discuss options.
Students living in University accommodation have their personal belongings insured through a block insurance scheme.
Your personal possessions insured are defined as laptops, clothing, personal furnishings, kitchen equipment, linen and soft furnishings, computers, photographic and audio-visual equipment.
Cover for sports equipment, musical instruments and pedal cycles require additional cover through the scheme.
The insurance cover provided is for accidental loss or damage including theft.
Full details on the insurance scheme will be made available on your arrival.
All accommodation has High Speed Wi-Fi with speeds of 50Mb/s as well as Ethernet points in every bedroom.
An email will be sent when you collect your keys, it will have a link to the inventory site on the accommodation portal.
When you arrive please inspect your accommodation flooring/paintwork, furniture and equipment to ensure it is in good condition and in working order.
Please log any issues on your inventory so we can if required address them or alternatively the condition of walls, carpets etc.
will be noted.
You have seven days from collection of keys to complete the online inventory.
Please note that charges will be incurred at the end of year for any equipment, fittings, furniture or furnishings that appear to be damaged or missing, particularly if they were not registered on your inventory.
Please find the damage costs listed below.
In addition to the e-Induction that you completed prior to arrival you are required to attend a mandatory residents induction session.
This information session will explain the rules and regulations you will be expected to follow during your time here.
This will include information on personal and fire safety.
You will also have an opportunity to ask any questions you may have.
Information on where the induction is being held for your particular residential area will be provided.
When you live in accommodation with Ulster you will have exclusive access to a large variety of Residents Life events organised especially for our residential students.
The ResLife team is headed up by the Resident Assistants (RA's) and work in partnership with the Sports Centre, Students Union and International Office to ensure there is always something going on  that you can get involved with.
The Residents Life programme is intended to give you opportunities to socialise, meet new people and have fun!
All you have to do is come along and join in...it will help you settle in quicker by helping you make new friends and allowing yourself to experience new things, people and cultures.
A full list of events can be viewed on the Residents Life section of the website.
If there are additional events or activities which you think that other students would be interested in attending or participating in, please contact your Resident Assistant or your Residential Services Team onsite.
To help residents understand potential costs for repairs or replacements, we've provided a detailed list of standard damage charges.
Please review the PDF below to stay informed and avoid unexpected fees.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/accommodation/need-to-know/what-to-bring:
Find out what you need to bring to have a safe and comfortable stay in the residences.
You will need to bring your own bedding (duvet, pillows, covers, pillowcases and sheets) and cooking utensils (pots/pans, crockery and cutlery) for the kitchen.
Ulster University offers convenient bedding packs for purchase.
If you'd like one ready in your room upon arrival, simply tick the bedding pack option on your application or email us directly.
Pricing:
Each pack includes:
Prohibited items include deep fat fryers, barbeques, chip pans, candles, incense burners, fairy lights, electric blankets, electric heater, grills, knives and weapons.
Students can bring electrical equipment however please ensure equipment is PAT tested in advance.
International students who wish to purchase bedding and kitchen packs can do so using the links below, have them delivered the week before you are due to arrive and we will have them in your room ready for you when you get here:
Yes, however please note there are a limited numbers of car parking spaces available adjacent to the student accommodation and Duncreggan Student Village (Derry ~ Londonderry Campus) is permit only.
The University charges for car parking on-campus.
Student car parking costs £60 for a 9 month permit.
Applications should be made via the Online Store .
Staff and students with a disability will be eligible for a permit subject to presentation of a valid Blue Badge and a nominal £1 annual fee.
For further information check out car park management .
Yes, however some bedrooms do not have individual aerial sockets but do so within the kitchen, living and dining area.
In most developments a subscription to internet TV, IPTV is available.
Whether you watch TV on a traditional television or online you must ensure you have your own individual TV licence, even if you put your TV into the kitchen for communal use.
We have partnered with UniKitOut to make your moving in process as seemless and stress-free as possible.
UniKitOut offer many different bundles and sets for your kitchen, bathroom and bedroom so you will have everything you need as soon as you arrive.
Use the discount code ULSTER10 to get 10% off your order!

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/accommodation/need-to-know/when-you-are-here:
To ensure that all residents enjoy their time at university, please follow the commonly accepted rules of behavior that are outlined in the Terms and Conditions and University regulations.
Usually, a first offence will result in a verbal warning, any offences that follow will lead to an interview with your accommodation officer who may impose a warning or fine.
Any serious or persistent breaches may be referred to the Provost or Director of Physical Resources; they have the authority to remove you from your residence.
It is University policy to report all criminal matters (including malicious damage and the possession of illegal substances) to the police.
Some areas of the University will be in close proximity to residential areas of the local community, so it is very important that respect is given to neighbours.
Residents and their guests should also take into account the local bye-laws regarding on-street drinking and when parking on-street for considerable periods in local communities.
You must be aware of the consequences of unacceptable behaviour and the impact this has on local residents.
The University needs students to maintain and strengthen the good relationships which exists in the local community.
If there’s something bothering you, however big or small, rest assured knowing help is at hand.
We understand things happen and sometimes you need a bit of help or advice to get through challenges, so if you are concerned about any aspect of your wellbeing, wish to seek support for a disability or just need to get a bit of help to manage your money with financial support please contact Student Wellbeing on
When you join Ulster you automatically become part of the Student Union.
We are here to represent you and provide you with help, advice and support.
Check out what we can offer you at the Students' Union website .
Guests can stay overnight with you in your room for two consecutive nights in any seven-day period.
A visitor is someone who does not stay overnight.
Visitors can be entertained any day after 8.00am.
As a resident, you are responsible for your guests/visitors, and will be held liable for any misbehaviour.
Visitors are expected to leave at a reasonable time (normally this would be defined as no later than 1.00am).
On campus all guests must be signed in in advance via the ResLife team (arrangements vary from location to location).
Staff are then aware of how many people need to be accounted for should a building have to be evacuated in an emergency.
The University reserves the right to refuse admission to residential accommodation to any guest/visitor, and/or require him/her to leave.
The room which you have been allocated is the room you will occupy for the duration of your contract.
However, requests for room changes/transfers may be considered by the accommodation officer; just complete a transfer request form online.
Requests for room changes/transfers may be granted depending on availability.
No room changes/transfers will be permitted where there are outstanding debts owed.
A fee of £25 must be paid prior to any change/transfer being authorised, this fee may be waived by the accommodation officer where there are pressing medical/social circumstances.
If you make an unauthorised room change, you will be required to move back to your allocated room, and charged accordingly if cleaning is required.
For operational reasons, we may require some residents to transfer to alternative accommodation (e.g.
if only a few residents remain in a flat).
In such circumstances, you will be given at least 4 weeks’ notice in writing.
You are required to honour your license agreement unless you find another fully registered Ulster University student (who has no commitment to other University accommodation) to take your place.
This includes residents going on placement.
Such arrangements are subject to the approval of Residential Services.
Please note you will be responsible for paying your residential fees until the room has been re-allocated.
If you are leaving University permanently (i.e.
withdrawing from your course), you need to complete an Application to Early Depart form online and submit along with a letter of release/withdrawal from your faculty office.
Once both of these are received you will be approved for release and asked to clear your room and return your room keys and Residential ID.
Once these are received your early departure will be processed and you will be required to pay any outstanding fees including an administrative charge for cancellation of your agreement equivalent to 4 weeks’ residential fees.
Release from an accommodation contract will only be granted on these grounds.
In extraordinary cases where we find there is extreme/extenuating circumstances (definition of which is at the discretion of Residential Services) you may be granted early departure.
In most cases you will be required to honour your full license agreement.
Most minor complaints concerning neighbours or staff can normally be resolved successfully in the early stages by talking informally to whoever is causing the problem.
If ‘having a quiet word’ yourself does not work, the next step would be to talk to your Resident Assistant (RA).
It is, however, important that you keep notes (dates, times, events, etc.) to support your complaint, should it not be possible to resolve the matter informally.
If your grievance is with a resident, it may be forwarded to the ResLife Manager.
If it is with a member of staff, please refer to the University’s complaints procedure .
The Terms & Conditions contain important policy and information relating to University accommodation.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/accommodation/need-to-know/health-and-safety:
You are not permitted to smoke anywhere within student residences - this includes e-cigs and vaping.
Designated smoking areas are provided and residents are asked to use these appropriately rather than door entrances, and also to extinguish and dispose of cigarettes in the cubicles provided.
Residents should ensure that all your personal electrical equipment (e.g.
computers, hair dryers, toasters, etc.) have been tested and are electrically safe before bringing them into residences.
These will be removed if they are suspected of being unsafe.
Please do not overload electrical sockets, and please ensure that all plugs are wired correctly and in good condition.
All electrical appliances must be used carefully, taking note of the electrical loading limits of the wiring and the danger of fire.
On campus, only use appliances rated less than 2 amps.
The University regularly tests all electrical items supplied.
Electric heaters, irons, cooking appliances must in no circumstances be used in study bedrooms.
Make sure that trailing cables of table lights, radios, etc., do not constitute a hazard, and do not to attempt to repair any faulty appliance or remove special light fittings.
SafeZone Provides is a Free APP that helps you feel safe on campus 24/7 by connecting you directly with our Security Services team if you need help, first aid or have an emergency.
You can check in when working alone or in high-risk areas, receive important notifications and get help quickly if you need it.
Visit for more information
Preventing fires is everyone’s responsibility and your co-operation is essential.
Notices explaining what to do in the event of a fire are prominently displayed in your study bedroom and throughout the residences.
Fire exits and escape routes (i.e.
landings and corridors in residences) must be kept clear at all times.
Nothing must be stored or temporarily left in these areas.
Please do not obstruct fire exits and escape routes.
Please pay special attention to the following:
You should familiarise yourself with the Fire Regulations for the location of your accommodation, and to participate in any fire drills which may be held.
Also familiarise yourself with the location of fire exits, fire alarm systems and firefighting equipment.
No matter how many ‘false alarms’ have occurred in your residence, you must treat every alarm as an emergency.
If you act as if it is a false alarm and fail to evacuate, or take longer than 3 minutes evacuating the building, you could lose your life.
Failure to observe this rule will result in disciplinary action: and an automatic £50 fine.
Testing of the fire alarm systems is carried out periodically.
You also have a duty to report any instances of abuse of the fire safety equipment, this is in the interests of all residents who may rely on the equipment in an emergency.
Please follow these simple guidelines
Never leave a cooker or electrical appliance unattended when in use.
In the case of a cooker fire please:
In some accommodation the buildings are heated using gas.
If you suspect a gas leak then please bring to the attention of the Night Support Assistant (NSA), Resident  Assistant (RA), Residential Services staff or main security.
All gas appliances are annually inspected in compliance with statutory regulations.
Students can request a copy of the Gas Safety Certificate from the Residential Services office.
As part of the Legionella management plan, Residential Services will access vacant rooms and flush through the water systems on a weekly basis.
As part of the plan student residents are required to instruct Residential Services when they will be absent from their accommodation for more than a seven-day period so that water systems within the room can be flushed.
You’re also required when you return to your accommodation after a seven-day period to flush water systems within your bedroom and/or apartment

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/accommodation/community-relations:
The Community Relations team at Ulster University play an important role in making Northern Ireland one of the best places in the UK and Ireland to be a student.
Ulster University employs a full-time Community Relations Officer  who works with resident groups and various agencies including Councils, The Police Service of Northern Ireland, the Northern Ireland Housing Executive etc.
in developing relationships between students and other community stakeholders across Northern Ireland.
The Community Relations Officer's role also involves a programme of work to raise awareness among students and to develop relationships between students and residents.
‌Community Relations work in partnership with various stakeholders such as resident groups including:
All Ulster University students are representatives of the University both on and off campus and they carry the good name and reputation of the University wherever they go.
Student Wellbeing delivers services to support students health and wellbeing including mental health advice and counselling, support and funding for disability and medical conditions, and advice on money matters.
Ulster University has teamed up with technology firm CriticalArc to provide SafeZone, a free new app for students and staff that connects you to the University security team if you ever need urgent help, first aid or if you have an emergency while on campus.
Living away from home can be a challenging and exciting time.
We hope that whether you are living on your own or with friends the experience will enhance your student experience.
University is your passport to a rewarding career and we want to help you fulfil your ambitions.
Remember - on-street drinking or anti-social behaviour could result a fine or criminal conviction.
This could:
Students can be vulnerable to crime so Ulster University works closely with the Police Service of Northern Ireland and local councils to help keep you safe and reduce assaults, thefts and domestic burglaries.
General safety tips:
Before moving into your house:
Remember, misuse of fire safety equipment puts people’s lives at risk.
To report an incident of antisocial behaviour (this includes excessive noise), in the first instance you should report it to the Belfast City Council Noise Team on 028 9037 3006 (Night-time Noise team operate from 20:00hrs – 04:00hrs) or the Police on 101.
Also report incidents to Northern Ireland Houses in Multiple Occupation Unit (HMO) who are the responsible authority for HMOs in Northern Ireland ( 028 9027 0414 )
If you suspect students live in the property, you should also report this to both Ulster University and Queen’s University of Belfast.
All complaints of student misconduct reported to Ulster University are taken seriously and will be fully investigated.
Ulster University liaise with Belfast City Council and PSNI on reported incidents of alleged anti-social behaviour.
Please provide as much detail as possible, including the date and time of incident, the impact this has had on you.
Please include which authority/agency you have contacted regarding the incident.
Belfast City Council Noise Hotline
Night Time Noise team operate from 20:00hrs - 04:00hrs
4-10 Linenhall Street, Belfast, BT2 8BP.
Ulster University Complaints Privacy Notice

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/accommodation/need-to-know/moving-out:
At the end of your occupancy period:
Additional cleaning charges may be levied in respect of residences not left in an acceptable condition.
If you wish to remain in accommodation during the summer vacation period, you can apply online from March.
Residents with outstanding accommodation fees may not be permitted to stay during the vacation period.
Anything lost or found should be reported to Residential Services or security staff.
Staff who find a personal item of value after a contract has ended will notify Residential Services so that the item can be logged and stored in a safe or secure storage area.
If cash is contained this will be forwarded to student support for receipt into the Student Hardship fund.
Residential Services will contact the resident(s) via the email details on the accommodation database.
The email will advise that personal items of value have been found and should be collected within 7 days from the date the email was sent.
If they are not collected on time they will be disposed of in line with University lost property procedures.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/accommodation/summer-bookings:
Contact your chosen campus directly for availability updates.
V.A.T is applicable to all visitors and non Ulster University students.
Stays of six or more weeks can avail of a weekly rate at the service level below.
Our weekly rates are available to download
Ulster University students are not required to pay VAT.
VAT will be charged on all other bookings.
3 night minimum stay available and full payment required in advance of arrival.
This will provide a single ensuite bedroom in a 5 bedroom apartment.
Residents share the communal kitchen which is equipped with cooker, oven/grill/hob, microwave, kettle, toaster, fridge/freezer and has some crockery and cutlery provided so you can enjoy the option of self-catering.
Laundry facilities are available onsite at a cost of £2.90 per wash and £1.90 per dry.
If you book a three night plus package our  dedicated housekeeping team will  service kitchens (remove rubbish and refresh surfaces) every weekday (Monday to Friday).
Towels - Guests can request fresh towels on weekdays (Monday to Friday) and housekeeping will provide additional bin bags and toilet rolls should you require these over the weekend.
Room servicing - For guests staying 7 or more nights housekeeping offer a room refresh (bed linen change & room cleaned) mid stay (on a Monday or Thursday).
For any questions or enquires please email accommodation@ulser.ac.uk
We welcome all our Ulster University students coming to complete a placement.
Placement students will be charged standard student rates for their stay.
Students will need to provide their own bedding, cutlery, crockery, towels and toiletries.
(Bedding packs are available for purchase at the Residential Services Office.)
To enquire about placement accommodation and the application process, please contact the below:
Book your accommodation
Learn what to expect and how to prepare for your stay.
Get all the essential information for your visit.
If you have a question or need assistance please send an email or call the relevant campus using the contact information below:
Email: accomm-b@ulster.ac.uk
E-mail: accomm-c@ulster.ac.uk
Email: accomm-m@ulster.ac.uk
+44 (0)28 71 675 750
Residential Services offices are open from 9.30am to 4.30pm Monday to Thursday and 9.30am to 3.30pm Friday.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/sport/memberships-and-pricing:
With our summer membership, it means you get all services for one fee!
Enjoy access to any Sports Services facility with your membership, available for students, staff and the community.
This means you get all 4 locations: Belfast, Coleraine, Ulster University Sports Village – Jordanstown and Derry~Londonderry.
Access includes unlimited gym and classes, racquet sports and health suite (available in Coleraine and JSV).
To sign up, simply come along to your nearest Sports Centre reception.
Choose your location to view the weekly class timetables.
Details on membership fees for Belfast Sports Centre.
Details on membership fees for Coleraine Sports Centre.
Details on membership fees for Derry~Londonderry Sports Centre.
Details on membership fees for the Sports Village.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/sport/memberships-and-pricing/belfast:
Enjoy our all-inclusive memberships
Our Belfast Sports Centre is open to the public .
Click "Buy a membership" below and create an account or;
Annual memberships
All our membership options provide you with unlimited access to our facilities
Simply choose whether you want a month or an annual package.
All packages include:

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/sport/memberships-and-pricing/coleraine:
We believe in all-inclusive!
All our membership options provide you with unlimited access to our facilities at Coleraine!
* Additional costs apply for floodlights
** Off Peak is Monday to Friday 9 am -5 pm and all day Saturday and Sunday
*** Peak is Monday to Friday 5-10 pm
NB The member who booked the facility is responsible for payment

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/sport/memberships-and-pricing/sports-village:
Enjoy our all-inclusive memberships!
All our membership options provide you with unlimited access to our facilities!
Simply choose whether you want one month, or an annual package.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/sport/memberships-and-pricing/derry-londonderry:
Enjoy an all-inclusive membership!
Membership prices should be used in conjunction with pay-as-you-go charges
* Off-peak: Monday - Friday 9.00am - 5.00pm

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/sport/terms-and-conditions/terms-and-conditions-of-sports-centre-memberships:
Terms and conditions for Ulster University Sports Centre Memberships.
All prices are subject to change annually.
All information provided will be added to the databases maintained by Ulster University and Ulster University Students’ Union.
Data is not divulged to third parties.
Under the Data Protection Act 1998, we are unable to use the information you have supplied unless you give your consent.
Thank you

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/sport/weekly-classes:
Information on available weekly fitness classes.
Fitness Classes at your campus.
If you need to ask a question please contact us
Join us for one of our fitness classes in Belfast.
Join us for one of our fitness classes in Coleraine.
Join us for one of our fitness classes in Derry~Londonderry.
Join us for one of our fitness classes at the Sports Village.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/sport/weekly-classes/belfast:
Our classes are open to the public, staff and students.
All classes are available to book online.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/sport/facilities:
Information about the outstanding facilities offered at Ulster University, membership, fitness packages, classes and facility hire.
Whatever your level or sport, our sports centres have got it all, including state-of-the-art fitness studios, wide range of classes, multi-sport indoor and outdoor facilities and fully trained sports staff.
At our Belfast Campus, we have world class facilities that are open all year round to students and members of the public.
At the Sports Village we have world class facilities that are open all year round to our students and members of the public.
Our Campus in Coleraine boasts a variety of indoor and outdoor facilities that are open all year round to students and members of the public.
Our facilities in Derry~Londonderry cater for many sports ranging from archery to volleyball, and are open to students and members of the public all year round.
Full Terms and Conditions governing hire of sports facilities.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/sport/facilities/belfast:
Our purpose-built Belfast Sports Centre at Nelson Place is open to the public.
As part of our development, we have world-class facilities, with state-of-the-art Technogym equipment, putting you ahead of the rest!
Information on pricing for the Belfast Sports Centre can be found on the Belfast membership and pricing page .
Need to chat?
Call us on 028 9536 7177 (Option 1)
You can make use of our brand new Technogym Wellness equipment within the Fitness Suite, including the latest range of Technogym weights both fixed and free.
We also have many new innovative cardio machines alongside the good old favourites.
We have 3 dedicated studios, all of which can be booked.
Our teams can provide a tour of the spaces and answer any questions.
To enquire about availability email sport@ulster.ac.uk
Yes, our facilities are open to the public with competitive membership packages available.
You can book classes through our Ulster University Sport App, in person or over the phone.
Classes are included with your membership or £11 PAYG.
If you are new to the gym or need any guidance, please speak to any of our experienced coaches.
They will be happy to help you.
Yes, you can pay to use the gym at our reception.
Don't just take our word for it about our services!
Listen to our members stories about the positive impact the Belfast Team and their world-class services have had on their health and wellbeing.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/sport/facilities/coleraine:
Our campus in Coleraine boasts a variety of indoor and outdoor facilities that are open all year round to students and members of the public.
Coleraine's user-friendly facilities mean there is something for everyone.
Information on pricing for the Coleraine campus can be found on the Coleraine membership and pricing page .
At Ulster, we have access to world-class sports facilities and expertise.
We pride ourselves in delivering high-quality services that take standards of performance to new levels for our student-athletes and the local community.
Our strength and conditioning facility at the Coleraine campus is a testament to our claim!
Housing the latest Technogym racks, with integrated platform areas and Eleiko bars and plates we can satisfy the needs of the elite and the developing athlete.
Combine this with the expertise of our staff and you will realise that this is not your standard gym.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/sport/facilities/sports-village:
At our Sports Village, we have world-class facilities that are open all year round.
Our state-of-the-art technology will put you ahead of the rest.
Information on pricing can be found on the membership and pricing page .
Call us on 028 9536 7177
You can make use of our brand new Technogym Wellness Suite, including the first of its kind in Ireland: the 'Kinesis Wall', the suite also includes: the latest range of Technogym weights both fixed and free.
The Wellness Suite may be closed on occasion to facilitate academic programmes.
Notice of closure will be posted at the sports centre reception.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/sport/facilities/derry-londonderry:
Our facilities in Derry~Londonderry cater for many sports ranging from archery to volleyball and are open to students and members of the public all year round.
Derry~Londonderry was the first university sports centre in the UK and Ireland to achieve Quest Registration, which is the UK Quality Award for sport and recreation services.
Information on pricing for the Derry~Londonderry campus can be found on the Derry~Londonderry membership and pricing page .
Multi-Purpose Indoor Sports Hall
A multi purpose sports hall which can cater for a host of activities including indoor football, basketball, volleyball, badminton, netball, trampolining, gymnastics, archery and exercise and fitness classes.
We also provide clean and spacious changing facilities with safety deposit lockers.
Fitness Suite
The Fitness Suite contains all the latest cardiovascular and resistance equipment to suit all your needs.
Including treadmills, spin bikes, cross trainers, rowing machines and strength and conditioning machines.
Acupressure and Sports Massage Room
In our treatment room we can offer customers seated acupressure massage and sports massage at a very competitive price.
This facility is useful if you are feeling stressed or fatigued.
Duncreggan 3G Floodlit Pitch
This 3G pitch was refurbished in September 2015, and is suitable for 5-a-side, 7-a-side and 11-a-side games.
Duncreggan Grass Pitch
Football, rugby, hurling and gaelic are just some of the sports which can be played on the prunity pitch
Duncreggan Exercise and Fitness Studio
The Duncreggan studio is ideally situated in the heart of the student village and outdoor playing fields.
Changing facilities, toilets, car parking, storage and vending provisions are available.
Exercise and fitness courses such as boxer-circuits, yoga, Pilates, abs attack, bums and tums and table tennis are held in the studio each semester.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/sport/terms-and-conditions/terms-and-conditions-of-hire-of-sports-facilities:
Read the terms and conditions of hire of sports facilities.
Individuals or organisers booking Sports Facilities are reminded that by signing and submitting the attached official Booking Form that they are entering into a legally binding contractual arrangement with Ulster University which will be concluded by the University confirming the booking.
1.1    The person or organisation to whom approval is granted (Hirer) will be held responsible for the conduct and supervision of all persons attending the event(s) covered by that approval and the termination of the event(s) at the time specified.
1.2    The person or organisation to whom approval is granted (Hirer) will be held responsible for any damage caused to the facilities or property by any person or persons attending the event(s) covered by that approval.
1.3    It is the Hirer's duty to agree to take on the liability / responsibility for managing / mitigating risks associated with their players when using our facilities to account for COVID-19 measures (eg.
player wellbeing etc.)
2.1    The number of persons attending an event must be in accordance with the accommodation available and be consistent with the number of supervisors in attendance.
2.2    Approvals for use of facilities include use of toilets and changing rooms.
2.3    No University accommodation, other than that authorised, may be used, disturbed or entered into.
Animals are not permitted on campus.
2.4    Items of equipment may not be available for events unless specially requested beforehand.
Where any non-University service is required by the organisers and the University makes the necessary arrangements, it should be clearly noted that under such circumstances the University acts as an agent and not the principal and can therefore not be held responsible in the event of any problems arising.
2.5    Any irregularities or damage must be reported to the Sports Centre Reception Officer within 24 hours of occurrence before leaving premises and will be charged to the final account.
2.6    Only activities that are deemed compatible with the University’s Charter and Statutes and consistent with the objects of the University as a place of teaching, learning and research will be permitted to take place on University premises.
The University reserves the right to refuse to accept any booking solely at its discretion and without giving a reason.
2.7    You and your party must comply with all rules, regulations, policies and codes of practice of the University including but not limited to:
3.1    You shall indemnify Us against all loss, expenses or damage to our property or third party property and in respect of death or personal injury to any person in conjunction with Your or Your contractor's use of the facilities.
You shall indemnify Us against all claims which may be made against Us in respect of such matters except personal injury, loss or damage resulting from Our negligence.
You shall effect and maintain, and ensure that those providing entertainment or services arranged by You at the event effect and maintain public liability insurance in respect of the matters indemnified to a minimum cover of £5 million.
We reserve the right to refuse to accept any booking if evidence that the insurance cover referred to above is not produced at the time of booking.
3.2    The University does not accept any responsibility or liability in respect of loss or damage to any property or equipment bought on to University premises by You or on Your behalf.
3.3 Your attention is drawn to the fact that the type of insurance cover required to cover Your liability for the Event is highly specialist and is not covered by most conventional policies.
Therefore You should seek advice from their own insurance agent/broker with regard to the appropriate policies to put in place for the Event and required pursuant to clause 3.1 above.
4.1 Ulster University will confirm Your booking upon receipt from you of a signed and completed booking form (‘Booking Form’) in the University’s standard form as issued to You by US accompanied by the following items which must be satisfactory to the University:
4.1.1 the required deposit in accordance with clause 4.1.6 below;
4.1.2 a completed Event Schedule
4.1.3       a copy of Your relevant insurance policies (maintained and up-to-date) which would be required in the normal course for an event similar to Your Event and in addition those required pursuant to clause 19 below;
4.1.4       Your risk assessment for Your Event; and
4.1.5       where young persons under the age of 17 or vulnerable adults are attending your event, a copy of your relevant protection policy and procedures.
4.1.6       a non-refundable deposit equivalent to 25% of the total charge for your booking as notified by Us to You ("Booking Deposit").
The University may at its sole discretion refuse to accept any booking in which case you shall not be charged a Booking Deposit.
4.2    By signing and completing the Booking Form you thereby agree to pay all the charges for the Event, meals and other facilities as set out on the Event Schedule, subject to cancellation or variation thereto strictly in accordance with this Contract.
4.3    No Booking Form or Contract between the University and You shall be completed or accepted until you have complied with the provisions of this clause 3 to the satisfaction of the University and the University has confirmed that it has accepted the booking for Your Event.
5.1 See cancellation policy
5.2 The Ulster University reserves the right to change or cancel a booking.
Where a booking has to be so cancelled or changed as much notice as possible will be given and the Booking Deposit shall be returned to you.
6.1    The person who signed the application form shall be responsible for the prompt payment of the account which is due from the date of issue.
6.2 We will invoice You for all charges, less any deposit paid pursuant to clause 4.1.6 above or any advance payments made approximately seven days after the Event.
You must pay in sterling, to the address shown on the invoice, within 30 days of the date of the invoice.
You will pay any bank charges involved in making the payment.
If You do not pay the invoice in full within 30 days, We will charge you interest on the amount outstanding at 3% above Bank of England base rate from time to time.
Charges may include charges for any loss or damage whatsoever incurred by the University as a result of the actions of You or any member of Your party and for any additional goods or services supplied in addition to those detailed on the Booking Form.
Where accounts remain unpaid beyond 30 Days further bookings will not be accepted.
6.3 Charges may include charges for any loss or damage whatsoever incurred by the University as a result of  the actions of you or any member of your party and for any goods or services supplied in addition to   those detailed on the Booking Form.
7.1 You must make sure that You, members of your party, your agents and anyone visiting you at the University behave in such a way that they do not cause a nuisance or unreasonable disruption to the University, its members, students or employees, or to any other visitor to the University.
7.2 The accommodation shall not be used for the delivery of any lecture or display or for the performance of any dramatic or musical work in which copyright subsists without the consent of the owner of the said    copyright or in any other manner infringe any subsisting copyright, which consent shall be produced on request.
The accommodation shall not be used for events of a political or religious nature.
7.3 You shall be responsible for the behavior of all members of your party, and you shall ensure they do not undertake any activities that may bring the University into disrepute, comply with all licensing, statutory, health and safety requirements and other such matters or instructions issued under them and at all times comply with the instructions of the Sports Centre staff and University Security Service.
7.4    The facilities and the University premises must be treated with care and respect, You and your party must respect the privacy of its residents and shall not interfere with or gain access or attempt to gain access to those parts of the University premises for which public access or access is indicated by the University as being unauthorised.
It is essential that noise levels are kept to a minimum especially between the hours of 10.30pm and 8.00am.
7.5 You shall ensure your party do not behave in a manner which puts others (including delegates or members of the University) at risk or which is abusive, threatening or offensive to the staff, students or visitors to the University.
7.6    If You or any of your party does not behave in an appropriate manner we may exclude them or any member of your group from University premises and/or terminate the Event in whole or in part immediately.
We shall not be liable if we exclude any person or persons or terminate the Event in whole or part pursuant to this clause in any manner whatsoever and You shall not be entitled to a refund or reduction.
7.7    The University will not be liable to You for any loss (including consequential loss), damage, costs or liability suffered or incurred by a member of Your group, or those invited to attend by You.
7.8 You agree to pay the University on an indemnity basis for any loss or liability of any kind to any person which results from you or any member of your party failing to obey any University Ordinance, Regulation or Rule.
7.9 Any organisation or individual making bookings are reminded that they may not use the name of Ulster University or associated logos save with specific authorisation.
Where usage is required such use shall be qualified by a note that any courses offered are not courses of the University.
Photographs of any part of the University must not be used without formal approval.
8.1    By signing the booking form the representative of the organisers accept the terms and conditions noted herein and warrants that he or she has been duly authorised to legally bind the individual or organisation on whose behalf the booking is being made.
In the event of the organisation not being an incorporated body, the signatory to the booking form warrants that he or she has the power to bind members of the organisation being a partnership or unincorporated association all jointly and severally as agents, failing which the signatory accepts personal liability under the contract which is entered into.
Ulster University, Sports Services retains the right to be the sole broadcaster for live event streaming, as part of a third party arrangement through Spiideo Play which is integrated in a number of facility spaces.
Broadcasting of events is strictly prohibited unless full permission is authorised by Sports Services.
Event recording can be facilitated in specific locations for a set fee of £80.
Limited sports analysis services is also available for dedicated sports for £80, provided to nominated contacts within 48hrs of the event
For full details on event streaming, recording and analysis please contact Darren Quinn on d.quinn1@ulster.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/sport/community-sport:
Sports and activities for ages 2-16.
Sport centre membership is open to everyone in the community.
Various birthday party packages available across our campuses.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/sport/community-sport/junior-sports-camps:
We are excited to announce that our Junior Sports camps are now open for booking for both Easter and Summer!
They will take place across our Coleraine campus, Jordanstown Sports Village and Derry~Londonderry facilities with a range of activities available for those aged from 2 to 16 years of age .
No previous experience is necessary and all equipment will be provided.
Opportunities are campus-specific, but examples of some of our camps, include:
For enquiries, please contact your campus Sports Development Officer:
Bookings are done online, which will allow you to manage your bookings and payments all in one easy-to-use place.
Camp bookings are managed through our online camp partner Active Networks who provide a secure and easy user experience.
A handling fee will be applied at the end of your transaction in addition to your camp
For further information please contact Alison Moffitt.
Sports Services
D103

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/sport/community-sport/birthday-parties:
We offer our facilities to celebrate children’s birthday parties at each campus.
For hire of a hall and refreshment area
1 hour in activity area + 45 minutes in the refreshment area
Staff or equipment not supplied and parents must provide supervision of children at all times
For hire of a hall only
1 hour in activity area
To book a birthday party, or for further information, please call reception on 028 903 66431 .

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/sport/performance-sport:
At Ulster University we are passionate about performance and helping people fulfil their potential.
With students our priority, we have tailored support programmes to increase performance levels of individuals and teams, to maximise competitive success and enhance the student experience at Ulster University.
For others, who are not students we offer bespoke performance sport services accessible to external sporting groups and individuals who can benefit from our expert staff and world class facilities to help attain performance goals across a wide range of sports and from club to elite performers.
At Ulster University, gaining an excellent education is important and our Performance Golf Programme enables talented young male and female golfers to do just that, whilst also developing their golfing potential.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/sport/performance-sport/programmes/talented-athlete-scheme:
Applications to the Scheme for entry in 2025 are now closed.
Under the Talented Athlete Entry Scheme, Ulster University allows a reduction in the grades required for entry to full-time undergraduate courses.
For the academic year 2025-26, successful applicants to the Talented Athlete Entry Scheme will be offered a two-grade reduction in entrance requirements or the equivalent in other accepted entrance qualifications.
To be considered eligible to make an application to the Talented Athlete Entry Scheme you must:
Successful applicants to the Scheme can benefit from:
It’s simple.
Just complete and submit the online form before the closing date of 29 January 2025.
This closing date aligns with the UCAS deadline for on-time applications.
Please ensure that it is completed as fully and clearly as possible.
Please note:
Applicants are asked to ensure that they include within their application both their personal ID and the email address they have used / will use on their UCAS application.
If the details provided do not match those submitted to the University through UCAS, it might not be possible to make a reduced offer.
Applications will be assessed in line with established criteria.
This process takes a number of weeks, followed by a moderation process to ensure fairness and consistency of approach.
The number of successful applicants entering Ulster University through the Scheme from team sports will be capped at a level equal to the official size of an Intervarsity squad for that particular sport as established by the Colleges and Universities Sports Association of Ireland / British University and Colleges Sport.
A list of these team sports caps is provided.
Individual sports will not be capped.
As in previous years in order to be successful applicants must achieve an assessment score above an established threshold.
If within any team sport, the process of application form assessment cannot satisfactorily distinguish the successful applicants in line with the identified cap, a process of interviews may be used.
If you are applying for the Talented Athlete Entry Scheme as a team sport player, please be prepared to be interviewed as part of the selection process.
We will let you know if we need to hold interviews and the date/venue as soon as possible.
Successful applicants to the Talented Athlete Entry Scheme must;
Those failing to adhere to the conditions of the Scheme will have access to support services withdrawn.
List of sports recognised by Student Sport Ireland (SSI) and / or British Universities & Colleges Sport (BUCS) that offer Intervarsity competitive opportunities to students at Ulster University.
MAXIMUM Number of Applicants for Team Sports to enter Ulster University through the Talented Athlete Entry Scheme
Basketball
Camogie
25
Cricket
16
Football
Gaelic Football
Hockey
Hurling
Netball
Rugby
Volleyball
Water Polo
15
If you have any questions or require any further information in relation to the Talented Athlete Entry Scheme, please contact the Scheme Administrator by email at schemeadministrator@ulster.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/sport/performance-sport/programmes/golf-scholarship-scheme:
One of only 11 Institutions from across the UK to be funded by the R&A, Ulster University has a well-established and successful Performance Golf programme in place.
To be considered eligible for the programme students must:
Support offered to students through the programme will include some or all of the following depending upon individual circumstances and requirements.
Students are expected to maintain satisfactory academic progress but they can take advantage of the flexible study options that this programme facilitates.
It offers high level student golfers who need to travel to competitions or attend training camps, the opportunity to be away from class for an agreed period of time.
They may also choose to slow track or split academic years in order to accommodate major international events.
Johnny Foster has been head coach of the golf programme for a number of years.
He is a Level 3 PGA Professional with an MSc in Sports Science.
A member of the ILGU High Performance Coaching Team, a GUI Provincial Coach and Lead Coach at Maynooth University, he also works full time with players from the European Challenge Tour.
As a graduate of Ulster University and former winning team member for Ireland of the World University Golf Championships, Johnny is ideally placed to provide high quality one to one and group coaching, course management, tournament preparation and feedback which students are offered through a comprehensive, annual programme.
He is assisted by Chris Gallaher, academy coach at the Johnny Foster Golf Academy and GUI Regional Coach.
Students can access a wide range of support services based upon their individual needs.
These include:
The programme of support to be offered to a student and their individual performance plan is developed following an initial performance profiling exercise prior to the commencement of the academic year.
Ulster University students are privileged to be awarded membership of Royal Portrush Golf Club during their time on the Performance Golf Programme.
Home to one of the best and most challenging links courses in the world with the Dunluce Links and the lesser known Valley Links, Royal Portrush Golf Club is the only club in Ireland to have hosted The Open, an honour they will repeat in 2019 when this famous tournament returns to the province.
Ulster University teams play their home fixtures at the Club and also avail of on and off course practice regularly throughout the year.
Students also utilise the facilities of the Johnny Foster Golf Academy at Greenacres Golf Club and receive Gold Membership package for them to access the world class sports facilities at the Ulster University Sports Village or on the campus of their course of study.
Of the R&A funded institutions Ulster University is in the unique position of being eligible to enter teams within both the Student Sport Ireland (SSI) and British Universities & Colleges Sport (BUCS) competitive golf programmes with the best male and female students included.
The SSI programme, coordinated through the Golfing Union of Ireland, includes individual and team competitions for Strokeplay and Matchplay.
Within the BUCS structure, Ulster University competes in the BUCS Championship finals.
Teams also travel to BUCS and Irish Colleges Invitational events.
Ulster University has won the All Ireland SSI Matchplay Championship in three of the last four years and also won the inaugural Team Stroke Play Championship in 2014.
We have had individual men’s strokeplay champions in 2012 & 2013, a ladies champion in 2013 & 2014 and an All-Ireland order of merit winner in 2015.
In 2016 we were runners up in the European University and BUCS Championships and in 2013 and 2014 had a winner in the prestigious R&A Scholars Ladies Tournament.
We have had full Irish internationals on our programme for the past four years, as well as numerous players on provincial panels.
In addition to the R&A individual scholarships that eligible players may apply for, sudents can also be awarded a performance Sport Scholarship from the University.
Awarded through the University Golf Club, scholarships towards tuition fees, up to the value of the University’s published full time NI/EU undergraduate tuition fee rate, can be applied for on an annual basis.
Also for the first time in 2016-17, Ulster University partner the Sport Changes Life Foundation and will deliver a Golf Victory Scholar Programme.
Golf victory scholars will be supported to study for a post-graduate qualification while using their skills and knowledge to help change the lives of young people through sport in our local communities while working on the award winning Sport Changes Life EHOOPS programme.
In addition, they will inspire young people through a one to one mentoring programme whilst playing for the University and availing of the benefits associated with Golf Scholarship Scheme.
The Golf Victory Scholars Programme is supported by Sport Changes Life Foundation partner The Rory Foundation.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/sport/frequently-asked-questions:
Useful information about Sports Services at Ulster University.
We hope to introduce Direct Debit payment facilities in time for the 2022/23 academic year.
There is currently no publicly available Wi-Fi for the community, however staff and students at Ulster University can avail of Eduroam throughout our campuses.
Guest access can also be provided to our partners usually in the case of event hosting etc.
Should you require any further information on this please contact sport@ulster.ac.uk .
We encourage all our students to be outstanding!
UUSU Sport support over 70 clubs which has engagement from over 1,500 UUSU Sport Members.
We offer a range of prices across our memberships which serve, student, staff, alumni, junior/senior and community with pay as you go options on our classes and facilities to annual memberships.
We do not operate any pool facilities on our campuses, given the high volume of facilities throughout the province.
Should you wish to convert a membership we will happily assist.
Simply email us at sport@ulster.ac.uk with your current membership details and the plan you wish to change to.
However, at the start of each term we encourage people to our come and try it sessions, which enables you to experience a new club or sport free for the first few weeks.
Our memberships are annual and multi campus which means you cannot pause over the summer.
Should your academic studies finish on one campus, you can still avail of your membership at any one of our other campus locations.
We also provide students and staff with 24/7 to Les Mills on Demand throughout the year.
Car parking is controlled and managed by Estates Services.
We have a range of facilities that are used by groups at different times.
In terms of our gyms, generally our off peak times for the centres is from 10 am to 4 pm and 7 pm to close
We have a range of facilities across our campuses including indoor and outdoor pitches, gyms, health suites as well as specialised facilities on our Ulster University Sports village which include acclimatisation chambers.
Facilities can be viewed and are dependent on each campus.
Facility prices are available online on our Memberships and Pricing .
The opening times of our Coleraine, Ulster University Sports Village and Derry~Londonderry campus can be found at on our Opening times page .
Information on the Talented Athlete Entry Scheme can be found at on the TAES page.
Full information on bus and rail travel can be found at Translink .
Information on kids camp dates and contact information can be found on our Junior Sports Camps Page .

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/sport/opening-times:
All sites will be closed on Monday 14 th and Tuesday 15 th July.
If you want to get in touch, please send us a message on social, or via email to sport@ulster.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/student/wellbeing/where-to-find-us:
Our Student Wellbeing team are located on each of our campuses to help support you.
Whether you just need a chat, have a question, or want a bit of extra support - we’re here for you.
Drop in anytime, or book a one-to-one chat with our Student Wellbeing team.
You can meet us face-to-face, by phone, or on a video call.
Block BC Level 2 2-24 York Street Belfast BT15 1AP
Room E023 Cromore Road Coleraine BT52 1SA
Room MG108G Northland Road Derry-Londonderry BT48 7JL
Speak to our wellbeing team

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/student/wellbeing/disability/register:
Helping students achieve their academic and personal goals
Student Wellbeing maintains a list of freelance self-employed support providers to deliver non-medical support to students with disabilities while studying at Ulster University.
The Register of Support Providers is part of the AccessAbility Service and works to meet the needs of students, while supporting and providing guidance to those who deliver support.
Click through the links below for guidance from the Register of Support Providers on:
Guidance for support providers at Ulster University.
Important information for students who have a support provider.
Descriptions of the support provider roles delivered at Ulster University.
Guidance on joining the Register of Support Providers.
Useful information for support providers.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/student/wellbeing/disability/accessability/what-is-assistive-technology:
If you have a disability or long-term medical condition, you may be recommended to use Assistive Technology to assist you in your studies.
This will often be funded by your Education Authority or funding body through the Disabled Students’ Allowance.
Each piece of Assistive Technology has a different purpose to support your specific study requirements.
These can have a significant impact, not just on your studies at Ulster University but also in your current or future employment.
Once you understand how to use these technologies and grasp their benefits, you will see an increase in the quality of your learning, revision and retention of information.
The Assistive Technology industry is continually developing new and updated products.
These include specialist items for students with visual or hearing impairments as well as more widely used items to support note taking, organisation of work and proofreading.
The following list details the items that are most widely used at Ulster University.
If you feel you would benefit from using Assistive Technology, or want further information, please contact your AccessAbility Adviser or our Assistive Technology Coordinator by completing the AT Query Form .
Many people find it difficult to actively participate in lectures, listen to what is being said and take effective, comprehensive notes at the same time.
Assistive Technology aids for note taking involve a combination of audio recording and either a traditional or digital notebook.
By recording the audio, you can listen and participate, taking short succinct notes at the time, asking questions when further explanation is necessary.
Afterwards, you can use your recording to make more detailed notes at your own pace.
A DVR lets you record lectures so you can listen back later and take notes in your own time.
You can play the audio on the recorder itself or transfer it to your computer.
You can take notes by hand or use note-taking software to type them and link them to the audio or lecture slides.
Most smartphones already have built-in voice recording apps, like Voice Memos on iPhone or Voice Recorder on Android, so you might not need to buy a separate device.
Some Assistive Technology products will allow you to record the lecture and make notes simultaneously or afterwards, using your laptop, tablet, phone or audio imported from a DVR.
You can link the audio to your notes so that you can hear what was being said while you were taking your notes, keeping everything in context.
They will also let you import slides or images to further supplement your notes.
The most popular products for note taking for our DSA students is Genio and Caption.ed.
Other products offer similar features.
Click on each product title to learn more or see how it works.
Genio Notes will record the lecture audio (online or in-person) and allow you to highlight key areas for review.
You can mark key parts of the audio when something particularly important is said or when the slide or topic changes making it much easier to navigate the audio when you are reviewing it to expand your notes.
You can type brief notes as you go and develop them further in review.
Notes are automatically linked to the recording as you type.
When reviewing and completing your notes later, you can hear what was being discussed when you made the notes to help keep it in context.
You can also get a full transcript of the lecture to help with the review process.
The latest version includes extra features like slide annotation, so you can add notes directly to presentation slides.
It also has a “Quiz Me” tool powered by AI, which creates questions based on your notes and recordings to help you test your understanding.
Caption.ed also records both in-person and online lectures, linking your notes to the audio and providing a written transcript.
It comes in two versions: Caption.ed Notes and Caption.ed Pro.
The main difference is that the Pro version includes live captions as well as a transcript.
Caption.ed supports transcription and captions in over 50 languages.
It also includes speaker labelling, which helps you tell who’s speaking when there’s more than one voice in the recording.
ivvi Notes is an app that turns what you hear in lectures into real-time visual mind maps, making it easier for students, especially those with dyslexia or ADHD, to understand and remember information.
Livescribe smartpens combine the natural process of handwritten notes with digital technology to ensure you get the most from your notes.
Writing on Livescribe dotted paper, the smartpens camera creates a digital backup of your handwritten notes.
You can also record and link the audio to your notes either on the pen or through the Livescribe app (depending on pen model).
The pen comes with multiple dotted note pads, which contain patterns that enable your pen to track what notes are being taken while the audio is being recorded.
A digital notebook available to all students via your Office 365 sign-in.
It supports typed notes, images, audio recordings with transcription, video, handwriting, and drawing.
Built-in tools include dictation, Immersive Reader, text extraction from images, and a maths solver.
You can also tag notes with keywords for easy organisation and quick searching.
A mobile app is available too, so you can access and update your notes on the go.
To help you get started, here are two simple tutorials on OneNote:
A free AI tool from Google designed to help students and academics extract insights from up to 50 sources, including PDFs, YouTube videos, MP3s, and links.
You can use it to create study guides, timelines, and FAQs.
It also lets you generate podcast-style conversations between two voices discussing your content, offering a fun and engaging alternative to traditional summaries.
It’s currently free to use, though this may change in the future.
To help you get started, here’s a simple tutorial on how to use Notebook LM effectively: NotebookLM Tutorial
Some students struggle to get their ideas down on paper or get overwhelmed by the process of planning and structuring their work.
Visual tools, like mind mapping help to brainstorm and structure ideas, get ideas out quickly and restructure and reorganise later if necessary.
They are an effective visual learning tool, to help you see the basic structure of your work take shape in minutes.
Ideas can be linked, moved, edited and arranged with sub-ideas, notes, images and other files linked to help explain or expand your ideas.
Mind maps can be useful in planning a presentation, writing an essay/assignment, revision or research.
Once complete, you can convert it to a Word document or PowerPoint presentation, complete with headings, sub-headings, bullet points or whole paragraphs and in some programs, a bibliography.
MindView is a mind mapping tool that enables you to create a mind map on your computer so that you can quickly plan, organise and layout your ideas.
Mind maps are simple to create and edit in a familiar Office-style interface.
MindView maps can be exported to Word or PowerPoint, complete with references.
Staying on top of your tasks and managing your time effectively can make a big difference in your productivity and stress levels.
Whether you're juggling assignments, meetings, or daily routines, these time and task management programs can help you stay organised, focused, and in control.
Dictation software allows users to speak commands rather than using a mouse or keyboard.
It can be used for navigation, text composition and text editing.
When planning an assignment or composing an essay, there is often a disconnect between what you intend to write and what actually appears on the page.
Some students even avoid using academic language because they try avoid spelling words they are not comfortable with.
Usually, these same students can present their ideas verbally but cannot present the same standard on paper.
Dictation software allows the user to verbalise their ideas, convert them to text and keep exactly what they want to write, in academic language, with no need to worry about spelling, giving a truer reflection of their ability.
Here are a few dictation programs that can help you turn speech into text:
iOS - on iPhone or iPad, anywhere the keyboard appears, there is a microphone button that will allow you to speak the text rather than type it (requires an internet/data connection).
If you need help with reading text, there are a number of programs and features within programs that can help.
Fonts can be changed both in size and colour, and background and page colours can be adjusted to suit your own preferences.
Text can be read aloud with highlights to help you follow onscreen as it is being read.
Word documents, PDFs, email, web content, eBooks, journals - anything text based can be read aloud.
You can even convert printed text in books or handouts to digital text that can be read aloud.
The main technologies involved are:
There are numerous spellcheckers and text analysing features to help check your work for misspelled words, words or phrases used in the wrong context, or often confused words such as there, they're and their.
You will also find dictionary features to define a word and give an example of the word used in context to make it easier to decide if you are using the right word.
When you have finished writing your work, you can use the screen reader to help proofread it by listening to what you typed and follow the highlights on the screen as you go.
This can make it much easier to spot any errors you may have.
Read&Write adds a toolbar to the top of your screen with a wide range of tools, including spell check, grammar support, word prediction, and more.
It has features to support reading, such as colour overlays, font adjustments, highlighting, and text-to-speech, which reads text aloud to help with comprehension and proofreading.
It also includes OCR tools that convert scanned or printed documents into editable, readable text.
The toolbar works across most programs and websites, so you can use Read&Write with whatever platform you’re using to read, write or study, whether that’s a Word document, a PDF, an email or a web page.
Other programs with similar features include:
Make maths more accessible with Equatio .
Type, speak, or handwrite equations and instantly turn them into digital maths you can use in Word or Google Docs.
Office 365 has its own enhanced accessibility features built in.
The Immersive Reader tool creates a clean, customisable reading interface with read-aloud features.
Editor provides spelling and grammar tools.
It also offers hints and tips for improving your content clarity, conciseness and tone.
Chrome has Reading Mode and Safari has Reader View which both offer similar features to Immersive Reader.
OneNote includes many of the same capabilities as Word and features built-in OCR for extracting text from images.
A free mobile scanning app that turns your smartphone into a document scanner.
As previously mentioned, Caption.ed and Genio Notes will provide live captions, depending on the version you are using.
There are also in-built captions in many of the devices and software you are currently using.
Whether you are preparing a presentation, organising your research, managing complex reading, or looking for strategies to stay organised and reduce anxiety, these tools are designed to support your learning, boost your confidence, and help you work more independently.
Aspire is a self-development and study skills platform that supports students in building confidence, resilience, and independent learning strategies.
Brain in Hand is a support app that helps you manage anxiety, stay organised, and build independence.
The app includes daily planning, mood tracking, coping tools, and access to one-to-one support when needed.
A presentation rehearsal tool that helps students of all abilities reduce anxiety and build their communication skills.
Present Pal is designed to support users with public speaking and presentations.
It provides on-screen prompts and structured notes to help with speech flow, confidence, and memory.
Scholarcy is an AI-powered tool that helps you quickly summarise academic articles, reports, and book chapters.
It breaks down complex texts into key points, highlights important information, and creates flashcards for easier review.
It also helps with referencing by extracting citations and generating bibliographies.
Pro-Study helps students collect, organise, and manage research information from various sources.
It is particularly useful for essay planning, referencing, and managing large volumes of information in a structured way.
A free, open-source reference manager that helps you collect, organise, and cite research sources.
It automatically saves citation information from books, articles, and websites, and integrates with word processors like Microsoft Word and Google Docs.
Both Apple and Windows devices come with built-in accessibility features to support a wide range of needs.
These include tools like screen readers, voice control, magnifiers, and options to adjust display and sound settings.
They are designed to help users with vision, hearing, mobility, or learning differences use their devices more easily without needing extra software.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/student/wellbeing/health-and-wellbeing/mental-health:
Mental Health is a term that includes our emotional, psychological and social wellbeing.
It affects how we think, feel and act.
It also determines how we handle stress.
It is important to look after your mental health, especially whilst at University
It's natural to feel happy when something positive happens to you or to feel sad, anxious, angry or scared when faced with something challenging or negative in your life.
Good mental health and wellbeing is to recognise that it is natural to feel different emotions, but also knowing when you need some help in dealing with life events.
Good mental health is just as important as good physical health, and maintaining it should be a priority for everyone.
If you are experiencing problems with you mental health they can affect the way you think, feel and behave, much like a physical illness.
However, the symptoms are not always visible to or understood by others.
Here are some of the early warning signs that you should look out for:
If you feel that you may be suffering from any of the symptoms, it's really important that you seek help and support through one of these channels:
Depression is a mood disorder characterised by low mood and a range of other possible symptoms, which will vary from person to person.
This illness can develop quickly or gradually, and can be brought on by life events and/or changes in body chemistry.
It can strike anyone but is curable in very many cases.
Anxiety is the feeling of fear and panic and as many as 1 in 6 young people will experience an anxiety problem at some point in their lives.
Most people feel anxious, panicky or fearful about situations in life, such as money problems or exams but often once the difficult situation is over, you feel better and calmer.
Symptoms of anxiety include feeling frightened, nervous or panicky all the time.
You may also feel down or depressed, have difficulty sleeping and eating, be unable to concentrate on things and feel tired and irritable.
Physically you might have palpitations or a racing of your heart, dry mouth, trembling, faintness and you may experience stomach cramps or diarrhoea.
Panic attacks are associated with feelings of extreme anxiety that come on in unpredictable attacks that usually last for about ten minutes.
If you have panic attacks, you may have difficulties breathing, feel panicky and tend to feel out of control.
Students experiencing stress and anxiety can have difficulties with food, which can result in over-eating or under-eating as a coping mechanism.
Eating problems can have an impact on your mental and physical health but advice and support is available from a number of sources on our resources page .
Self-harm is when someone carries out an act to hurt themselves as a way of dealing with very difficult feelings, old memories, or overwhelming situations and experiences.
There are various self-harm services to provide support across Northern Ireland on our resources page .
Suicide is the second most common cause of death in young adults and incidents of suicide is rising, particularly amongst young men.
Most people who attempt suicide are ambivalent about killing themselves; their focus is trying to put a stop to unbearable feelings or a situation that seems intolerable.
Someone who is suicidal may well be feeling frightened, trapped, hopeless, helpless, confused, distressed and desperate to escape from their suffering, rather than actually wanting to die.
However, at times like this suicide can feel like the only way out.
Thoughts about suicide are very common and the thought of suicide may fleetingly cross the mind of many people at some point in their lives.
However, the vast majority of people never act on these thoughts, or seek support.
At Ulster University, we believe that suicide is an avoidable death.
Student Wellbeing have worked to challenge the stigma around mental ill health and asked for help from our students through the Mind Your Mood campaign.
We have delivered safeTALK suicide alertness training to students as part of Mind Your Mood, as well as offering this to student facing staff groups within the University.
If you are worried about thoughts of suicide call into Student Wellbeing on any campus during working hours to get support from our trained staff.
Outside of working hours you should call Inspire (student counselling service) on 0800 028 5510 or Lifeline on 0808 808 8000
Serious loss is something which we will all face at some point in our lives.
This may be the death of someone close to us or it may be because of other circumstances such as the loss of our health or our home or the death of a much loved pet for example.
During this time it can be difficult to know what is normal and to understand how we or our families respond when we face a loss.
Coming to terms with loss, grief or bereavement for example can involve many feelings; such as denial, isolation, anger, deep sadness, loss, emptiness and depression.
The good news is that these feelings are normal.
Each person experiences loss and grief in their own way and every experience will have its own unique process there are no ‘rights’ or ‘wrongs’.
How can I help myself following a loss, grief and or bereavement?
Bullying and harassment can have a significant impact on wellbeing and mental health.
The Student Wellbeing team can support you with stress, anxiety, sleep issues or any problems which arise as a result of bullying or harassment.
If you have any concerns please don’t hesitate to call into Student Wellbeing on any campus, we are available from 8.45am-5pm (Mon-Thu) and 8.45am-4pm (Fri).
Alternatively, you can contact us on studentwellbeing@ulster.ac.uk or 028 9536 7000 .
If you are worried that someone you know is thinking about taking his or her own life, it is difficult to know what to say or do.
Many factors are involved in how your friend is feeling and people at risk of suicide often feel very isolated and alone.
If someone is not their usual self or if they are showing signs that worry you, do not ignore it.
If you are concerned about suicide, it is important to talk to the person about how they are feeling and encourage them to access support through their GP, Lifeline, Inspire or other support services such as those listed in our Helplines page .
These services can also be also sources of advice and support for you, as this can be very stressful and you must carefully manage your own wellbeing while supporting someone at risk.
If you want to discuss your concerns, you can come and meet with a Wellbeing Assistant or a Wellbeing Adviser in Student Wellbeing.
University can be lots of fun but it can also be quite stressful, especially if you are struggling with academic or personal issues.
Student Wellbeing provides a range of services to support students in need, including counselling support.
All Ulster University students can access a professional counsellor through a 24/7 freephone helpline brought to you in collaboration with Inspire students by calling 0800 028 5510 .
You can also email ulsterstudents@inspirewellbeing.org (not a 24h service).
Our Student Wellbeing team are available from 8.45am-5pm (Mon-Thu) and 8.45am-4pm (Fri).
Contact the Student Wellbeing Team .
ulsterstudents@inspirewellbeing.org
0808 808 8000
On occasion, it may be necessary for us to share information with relevant third parties in your best interests including; health and social care professionals, parent and/or next of kin if there is a known or suspected risk of harm to yourself or others.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/student/wellbeing/health-and-wellbeing/physical-wellbeing:
At university, you will learn how to combine your studies with the student lifestyle to maximise your student experience.
However, in order to stay happy and healthy you need to remember to take care of your body as well as your mind.
If you have any concerns about your wellbeing, you can drop in to meet with one of our Wellbeing Assistants at any time for advice and support but here are some important things to consider to maintain your physical wellbeing at university.
When you come to university you are normally over 18 and therefore above the UK legal age to purchase and consume alcohol.
However, being a university student does not mean that you should go out and drink alcohol excessively.
It is important that you learn moderation and balance to maintain your physical and mental wellbeing.
Here are some key facts to think about before drinking alcohol.
Coming to university is the ideal time to learn to cook, so that wherever you live you will be able to create nutritious meals that fit in with your schedule.
It does not have to be complicated or expensive but it is important to try to eat well.
A good diet can improve your overall health and mood and is just as important for your mental health as it is for maintaining good physical health.
Physical activity helps to improve both the body and mind, so you should look for simple ways to be physically active each day.
We would encourage students in the first instance to contact their GP.
If you do have any concerns or just want to talk to someone, please do not hesitate to reach out to Student Wellbeing.
There is no legal requirement for students to inform their academic school if they are pregnant or if they become pregnant whilst they are studying.
However, we strongly encourage students to disclose pregnancy at the earliest opportunity to ensure all health and safety and or other support measures are put in place.
You can arrange an appointment with your Course Director or Studies Adviser in your academic school to disclose and discuss any supports you feel necessary for your studies.
We would strongly recommend students contact their academic school who can work collaboratively to plan ways any subsequent period of maternity-related absences can be accommodated.
Please find links below for information on potential avenues for study absences:
Our AccessAbility Team can support you with academic interim adjustments if you are diagnosed with a pregnancy related illness such as anaemia or gestational diabetes – firstly you are required to obtain medical evidence for your illness via a medical professional – then contact us to schedule an appointment with one of our AccessAbility Advisers to explore any adjustments that you feel would be necessary for you to continue with your studies.
You can visit Student Wellbeing on campus for support with physical, mental health, general wellbeing and financial advice.
Contact us by email studentwellbeing@ulster.ac.uk or via tel: 028 95 367000 to arrange an appointment.
Ulster University Student Union Advice Bureau is also a source of independent and impartial information for students.
You can speak to our Money Advice Team on campus for advice on finances.
Contact the team on campus by email, or telephone to arrange an appointment.
Student Finance – if contacted Student Finance can advise on your student loan & may be able to signpost to benefits or grants.
Student Finance Northern Ireland (studentfinanceni.co.uk)
Citizens Advice offers free and impartial advice: Get advice in Northern Ireland - Citizens Advice
Sleeping is not something that you always associate with coming to university with the demands of a hectic social and study life, but regular and restful sleep is essential for good physical and mental health.
While you are asleep, your body works to support healthy brain function and maintain your physical health, so sleep deprivation can affect important aspects of your mind and body such as your mood and your energy levels.
Every day student activities such as going to class, working out, or working on a computer can strain your mind and body but a good sleep helps to alleviate some of that stress.
Sleep deficiency also increases the risk of obesity, as you will have less energy and are less likely to make good food choices and more likely to reach for a quick, less healthy alternative.
Here are some tips to help you sleep better.
While smoking is not illegal, there is an overwhelming consensus among medical professionals that it is very bad for you.
Smoking is often a direct cause of many life-threatening conditions including mouth, throat and lung cancers, chronic bronchitis, emphysema and heart disease.
Even ‘casual’ or ‘social' smokers are not immune to the effects of smoking in the long term.
Here are some important facts to consider before you think about smoking.
If you do smoke and you are thinking of quitting, you can contact your GP or one of the many smoking cessation groups available for support.
Find useful linking in our resources
Drugs are illegal and taking drugs at university is not only a risk to your health but also your education and future career prospects.
Drug misuse is the term given to the use of an illegal substance or the recurrent abuse of prescribed medication.
When it comes to drugs, it is important to be aware of the facts so that you can recognise the risks.
If you are worried about drug misuse or feel under pressure to take drugs, you can come and speak to the Student Wellbeing Team or talk to Frank .
There is also information and support available online which you can find in our resources .

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/student/wellbeing/self-help-resources:
Get access to the right help and support when you need it 24/7.
At Student Wellbeing we can help you with important areas of your life such as managing your money, looking after your health and minding your wellbeing.
The Inspire Student Support Hub gives you instant access to a range of information and guidance that is tailored to help care for your individual wellbeing needs.
The hub will help you to create a bespoke wellbeing care-plan, as well as giving guidance on appropriate support and intervention through guided self-assessment.
The hub comprises a number of resources, including:
Ulster University's unique PIN to complete sign up: UUHUB
The ChatPal project involved the design, development and trialling of a multilingual mental health chatbot, designed to promote positive mental wellbeing.
The ChatPal chatbot is freely available 24/7 for anyone to use and includes psychoeducational content, exercises such as mindfulness and breathing, mood logging, gratitude and thoughts diaries among other features.
Find out more on the project on the ChatPal website .

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/student/wellbeing/chaplaincy:
Chaplaincy is a safe space for all students and staff providing compassionate care to whoever comes to call.
Whatever your position on faith, your nationality, gender, sexual orientation or role within the university, Chaplaincy offers you non-judgemental hospitality, friendship pastoral & spiritual support.
The people you will meet in Chaplaincy are as diverse as the things you will do, see and hear.
Whether you go to Chaplaincy for - a cuppa, a rest, a chat, a meeting, an event, to worship, eat, study, pray or volunteer with a worthy cause
Chaplaincy is for everyone and seeks to help you grow in all areas of life!
The Chaplains play an important role in the welfare provision and pastoral support of all students and staff in Ulster University.
At the university’s request, Chaplains are appointed by their denominational churches and contracted to work as a Student Wellbeing service.
On each campus, the Chaplains are committed to working together in teams.
They believe it is important, particularly in N.Ireland to show that people from different traditions can choose to work together to love and serve others and also enjoy it!.
Chaplains are here to offer you personal, social, practical and spiritual support and are not here to recruit for any one belief, denomination, religion or organisation.
Chaplains can signpost and accompany you to other support services, link you with a faith community and provide information on local places of worship.
University is a formative experience.
Chaplains journey with students and staff through each academic year and can help you navigate this journey as you ask questions, explore new things and embrace life’s many challenges.
The Chaplains are there for you in times of joy as well in times of despair.
If you or someone you know in the university community is at home or in hospital unwell and would like a visit, please tell us!
Chaplains are here to offer care to any member of the university community and will ensure that appropriate confidentiality is maintained.
Everyone reacts differently to death and grief is unique for each person.
The university has a range of services which can help in coping with bereavement, amongst these, the Chaplains.
If you or someone you know has recently lost a relative, friend or colleague and would like to speak to a Chaplain or discuss the possibility of memorial services within the university community please make contact.
In addition to leading the Eucharist, ordained chaplains may also be available for baptisms, weddings and funerals if circumstances do not allow for these to occur within a local church community.
Find out more about our chaplaincy and how to contact us.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/student/wellbeing/health-and-wellbeing/academic-problems:
At university, you are in control of your studies and your academic progress.
However, if you are struggling, the Student Wellbeing team is here to help.
Find out how to develop the skills that will support your academic performance including research skills.
Go to the student portal and click the 'Skills for Study' tile at the bottom.
Sign in with Ulster University to get access to a range of study skills modules including; getting ready for academic study, time management, note taking and much more!
The Student Success Centre offers support from academic, maths and study skills, to useful resources and contact points to support throughout the learning journey.
The team is there to help students navigate their academic journey, offering support, guidance, and resources tailored to their needs.
Ready Steady Resit: Access personalised support that will help you build your confidence and enhance your preparation for upcoming resit exams or assessments.
Develop revision strategies, exam techniques and manager your time more effectively.
You can also get access to virtual face to face support.
For more information contact the Employability team .
The Student Guide To Ulster - Student Guide provides useful links and resources for current students at Ulster including information on; courses and modules, exam assessments and appeals, fee’s and funding, disability and wellbeing support and much more.
Find out more about getting started on your academic journey with our guide to digital services at Ulster University.
You can also find out about resources supporting learning, teaching and research offered by campus library services on their webpages.
The Employability and Careers team provide expert advice, endless opportunities and a range of services and online resources to support your future career prospects.
PASS (Peer Assisted Study Sessions) which offer peer mentoring may be available on your programme of study.
To find out more contact your Course Directoror School office.
Student Wellbeing provides a variety of services for a range of disabilities to help you make the most of your time at Ulster University .
Find out more at Disability - Student Wellbeing (ulster.ac.uk)
If you have had personal or medical difficulties, which have prevented you from attending an exam, completing your work on time or completing your work to the best of your ability, then you may be able to submit an EC1 form due to extenuating circumstances.
You have to complete a form and provide evidence of your circumstances to your course director within 5 working days of the submission date of the coursework or exam.
EC1 evidence for a medical condition should come from your GP and evidence of having received counselling or therapeutic support needs to be provided by your counsellor or therapist.
If you are accessing Student Wellbeing support you may also be able to ask your adviser for evidence.
You can download the EC1 form from the Ulster University Student Guide or by clicking through Absence & Extenuating Circumstances - Student Guide
Absence from University can include being absent for more than three working days from study/class, taking a longer authorised temporary break from your studies through a Leave of Absence or completing withdrawing/deregistering from your course.
There are a range of steps that need be considered when you are absent or intend to take a leave of absence/deregister.
Find out more at Take a leave of absence - Student Guide
Student Wellbeing are also on hand to support you at this time get in touch with Student Wellbeing.
Ulster University is committed to providing a high quality student experience to all of our students from enrolment to graduation.
While we hope that you are satisfied with the experience that we offer we realise that sometimes there are things that fall short of what you expect and we would welcome the opportunity to improve them
Find out more at Make a complaint - Student Guide
The Students’ Union Advice Bureau are also available to support you with the complaints process.
You have the right to appeal, in appropriate circumstances, against a decision of a Board of Examiners or a Faculty Board or a Campus Progress and Award Board.
Appeals guidance and forms can be found at Examination Appeals - Student Guide
The Students’ Union Advice Bureau are also available to support you with the appeals process.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/student/courses/attendance/leaving-the-university:
The Withdrawal form is to be used if you are thinking about leaving your course and withdrawing from the University.
Before completing this form, please follow the steps below:
If you are living in University accommodation, you must inform the Ulster University Residential Services of your intention to deregister.
Leaving the University means withdrawing completely from your course without returning to your studies.
Please read the information on ‘ Why you may wish to leave’ as support is available to help you to make the right decision.
Some courses are not always what you expect, as they can include a number of modules to provide a wide understanding of the subject.
Speak to your Course Director to find out about the different modules and learning outcomes, as while it might not be what you expect now, it may be in the future as you move through the course teaching.
Your Course Director can also recommend an alternative course of action, such as swapping to another course that might share similar modules/credits.
You can also speak to your Course Representative who can resolve issues and will also work closely with the Course Director on your behalf.
Contact the Student Wellbeing team to discuss study tips and learning styles as well as learning stress management techniques to help you study and perform better in exams.
Our dedicated Student Money Advice team are there to help.
Whether you are running out of money, are finding it difficult to manage your funds, or if you need additional support, we can help answer any questions.
Contact Student Money directly via email, sma@ulster.ac.uk .
Are you in receipt of reasonable adjustments to assist you with your studies?
If not, meet with our AccessAbility team to find out what additional support may be available to you.
If your condition has temporarily deteriorated, you could review options to take a leave of absence or transfer onto a distance-learning course so that you may still complete your studies.
Balancing studies and university life can be challenging but support and advice is available.
Whatever the issue that is affecting your studies, contact the Student Wellbeing team to discuss it confidentially with one of our team.
There is support available, should you find yourself in a position that you cannot complete mandatory portions of your course, such as deferring for a year of taking a formal leave of absence.
However, remember we can also help with any financial or emotional support you may require to enable you to come back to university and succeed.
Visit out Student Money website for more information, or contact the team directly at sma@ulster.ac.uk.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/student/wellbeing/health-and-wellbeing/healthy-relationships:
We all manage many different types of relationships.
The most important thing is to maintain supportive healthy relationships.
Therefore, if you have any concerns about a relationship come and talk to us in Student Wellbeing.
Relationships are very complex things, and there is no correct way to make a relationship work.
People with supportive and loving relationships are more likely to feel healthy and happy and less likely to have mental health problems, so having good relationships is extremely important.
Think about the different relationships that you have in your life and the role that each plays in being supportive through difficult times.
It is very important that you actively look after yourself, both physically and emotionally to maintain your wellbeing.
Silent Solution Guide - if you’re in an emergency situation and need police help, but can’t speak, Make Yourself Heard and let the 999 operator know your call is genuine.
University is often the time when we find out who we really are, identify our dreams and start to shape our future.
The challenges of being away from home, making new friends and realising that there's more to life than what you thought, is often how students feel about their university experience.
Increasing awareness of sexuality often happens as part of your University experience.
This can be due to having time to really focus on yourself and your feelings without the confines of parental supervision or expectation, or simply due to the variety and freedom of student life.
Whatever relationship you choose, it is all okay if it makes you happy!
Ulster University is a safe and inclusive space for all groups of students and Student Wellbeing staff have been trained in LGBT awareness.
If you need any help or advice, contact Student Wellbeing or look at some of the links on our resources page .
Difficult or unhealthy relationships can include a wide variety of scenarios, from poor communication, use of offensive language or inappropriate invitations.
If you feel insecure or unsafe in any relationship, you should talk to someone to ask for help to address the issues or to end the relationship.
Sometimes it can be hard to acknowledge when relationships or friendships change and breakdown.
However, this is something that will often happen for students, as there are so many opportunities for study, travel and development, which may lead to feelings of detachment or jealously for the other person.
Take some time to review any unhealthy or fractious relationships in your life and ask yourself whether they are worth maintaining further, or whether it will be better to end the relationship.
Consider your happiness as your priority.
If you are in a difficult relationship and want to make some changes, talk to someone that you trust like a friend or a parent or come and talk to us in Student Wellbeing.
We offer confidential advice, guidance, and referral on other sources of support if required.
Conflict is an integral part of relationships, however abuse and violence or feeling scared is never acceptable.
The government strategy ‘Tackling Violence at Home’ defines domestic violence as
“Threatening behaviour, violence or abuse (psychological, physical, verbal, sexual, financial or emotional) inflicted on one person by another where they are or have been intimate partners or family members, irrespective of gender or sexual orientation.”
If you are worried about domestic violence and need immediate support, you should contact the Women’s Aid 24-hour Domestic & Sexual Violence Helpline on Freephone 0808 802 1414 .
This helpline is open to all women and men affected by domestic and sexual violence.
You can also come and speak to us in Student Wellbeing or contact Inspire our counselling service , for additional support.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/know:
Ulster University are committed to providing a safe environment conducive to the academic, social, and personal development of all members of the university community.
The University will take all reasonable steps to provide a safe environment for students, staff, and visitors to the University.
All members of the University are expected to conduct themselves, both on and off campus, in a manner which demonstrates respect for fellow students, staff and the wider community.
The Green Dot Bystander Intervention at UU will form part of a strategic response to the issues of sexual misconduct and gender based violence among student populations.
The University has a comprehensive policy and procedure for dealing with complaints of bullying and harassment in the learning environment.
It also clearly articulates the University’s commitment to creating and sustaining a welcoming inclusive and accessible learning and work environment.
Our Student Guide has information on Staying Safe and helpful guidance from PSNI.
Need urgent help but can't speak If you are in an emergency situation and need police help, but can't speak: make yourself heard let the 999 operator know your call is genuine View silent solution guide

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/know/bullying:
Copies of the policy are available from the Students’ Union, from your faculty office, from the Policy Implementation Unit .
This content is designed to answer some of the questions you may have if you feel you are being bullied or harassed whilst at the University.
A student who has been accused of bullying or harassment has the right to respond fully to such accusations.
If you are in this position you too should refer to the policy.
The policy covers bullying or harassment on the following grounds:
It also covers bullying which may not necessarily be based on any of these things.
It makes it clear that the University has a zero tolerance attitude to such behaviour .
If you believe you are being bullied or harassed you should take appropriate action.
You can approach any of the following people in confidence: *
Any of these contacts will give you advice about the procedures, both informal and formal.
(A student who has been accused of bullying or harassment also has the right to seek advice from any of these people )
The University reserves the right to investigate serious incidents of bullying or harassment, even if the complainant does not lodge a formal complaint.
The Informal stage is designed to encourage resolution of the issue.
This could include a meeting with any of the people above, and could lead to a meeting with the alleged harasser, either on your own if you wished, or accompanied by the contact above.
Such a meeting will only be arranged if both parties agree to this course of action.
The informal stage is appropriate when you just want the behaviour to stop or not to recur.
Because it is informal there will be no official records of any meetings or discussions (other than the harassment advisers’ routine note of agreed action).
Experience has shown that the majority of complaints can be resolved by talking to the alleged harasser or having a meeting with a neutral third party present.
The next stage is to consider mediation.
The University has a pool of trained mediators who can be contacted via the Mediation Services Co-ordinator, Andrew Caldwell, Head of Employee Relations, Department of Human Resources.
Either the complainant or the alleged harasser can request mediation.
Mediation is an option in the informal process and can be used if both parties agree.
The Mediation Services Co-ordinator will explain the service and what is involved.
Failure to resolve the issue at the informal stage does not preclude you from making a formal complaint.
A formal complaint must be made in writing to the Provost of the campus where you are based (if the complaint is about a fellow student) or to Director of Human Resources (if the complaint is about a member of staff) outlining the nature of the complaint.
Assistance may be sought from a harassment adviser, a Students’ Union representative or from the Policy Implementation Unit .
The Provost/Director of Human Resources will acknowledge receipt of the complaint within 10 working days and will appoint a n investigating panel, which will include the Students’ Union President or his/her nominee.
You will have to attend an interview with the Investigating Panel when you will be asked to clarify the nature and details of the complaint.
A summary of these details will be forwarded to the alleged harasser to enable them to prepare their defence .
The Investigating Panel will also interview the alleged harasser to put the allegations to him/her and provide an opportunity for them to respond.
They will also interview any witnesses or other people they feel may be able to assist.
You may be accompanied by a Students’ Union Sabbatical Officer/Representative, a fellow student or a Harassment Adviser.
You may not bring someone from outside the University.
Everyone who is being interviewed may be accompanied in this way.
Based on everything they have heard the Investigating Panel will reach a decision, which they will communicate, in writing, to the Provost/Director of Human Resources, who will then communicate it to you in writing and also to the alleged harasser.
If the Investigating Panel finds that your complaint of bullying/harassment has been substantiated they may recommend action.
This may include a recommendation that disciplinary action is taken.
The Investigating Panel will write to you to advise you that the investigation is complete and the report has been sent to the Provost/Director of Human Resources.
If following an investigation an allegation is deemed to be fictitious or malicious this may also result in disciplinary action.
However, the fact that a complaint is not upheld does not imply that it is facetious or malicious.
There is an appeal process.
If either party is not happy with the outcome of the formal investigation they should write to the Vice-Chancellor (if the complaint is about a fellow student) or the Director of Human Resources (if the complaint is about a member of staff), who will appoint an Appeals Panel.
This will be chaired by a lay member of the University’s Council and will include the Students’ Union President or his/her nominee.
The Appeals Panel will only hear appeals on the grounds of a procedural complaint or if either party feels some relevant evidence has been missed or misunderstood.
They will meet with relevant parties to investigate this.
They will then write a report of their findings to the Vice-Chancellor/Director of Human Resources, which may include recommendations for action.
The Vice-Chancellor/Director of Human Resources will then meet with the relevant parties.
Victimisation will not be tolerated by the University.
If the behaviour continues you should inform the Provost.
If you wish to, you may ask one of the Harassment Advisers or a Students’ Union representative to speak to the Provost on your behalf.
The Bullying and Harassment Advisers (the Advisers) are staff from throughout the University who are available to offer support and advice to both staff and students of the University who feel they may be subject to bullying or harassment.
They are also available to offer advice to anyone who has been accused of such behaviour .
These staff have volunteered to take on this role and have received training to assist them to do so.
Their role is to listen to you and provide you with information as to what steps are open to you if you feel you are being harassed or bullied.
They will also explain the procedures to you.
They cannot however solve the issue for you – their role is to give you sufficient information and advice that you feel able to decide what, if anything, you wish to do in the circumstances.
As a result of speaking to one of the Advisers you may feel able to tackle the situation on your own, because they may suggest a way of dealing with the circumstances that you had not thought of.
Alternatively you may wish to make an informal complaint – they will be able to advise you as to how to do this and what action might be most appropriate in the circumstances.
They will also be able to advise you about the formal procedures.
All discussions with the Advisers will be confidential and they will not take action on your behalf without your agreement.
You can view the list of the current bullying and harassment advisers .
They come from a range of departments and schools and you are free to contact any of them.
You need not, and indeed we would encourage you not to contact someone you know or who works in the same area as you, but if you only feel able to contact them then do so in the first instance.
However experience would indicate that often it is better for someone who is unconnected with the situation to advise you.
The University is committed to providing a safe and harmonious working environment in which no member of staff feels they are being bullied or harassed.
Bullying and Harassment are unacceptable and will not be permitted or condoned.
The recognised Trades Unions and the Students Union have been fully consulted in drawing up this policy and are all committed to its success.
You should seek advice from the Policy Implementation Unit or from the Students’ Union Representative.
If you feel you are being bullied or harassed take action.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/ds/services/wifi-services/eduroam-wifi:
Eduroam Wi-Fi is the a secure wireless network and can be used at a number of participating institutions worldwide.
Ulster University operates a "home" and "visited" Eduroam service.
Students may connect to Eduroam with a laptop or mobile device.
Staff may connect to Eduroam if they are utilising an unmanaged laptop  or mobile device.
(Note - managed devices should automatically connect to 'UU Internet' when on campus).
Once you configure your laptop/mobile device, your device will reconnect to Eduroam automatically when it is in range.
If you change your University password you will need to reconfigure immediately or risk your account being locked.
Most areas within the University have wireless coverage, however if you discover an area with limited wireless coverage please inform the IT Service Desk.
Please click on the appropriate tab below to get more information on using eduroam as Ulster staff or students, or as a visitor to the university.
The “Home” service means that when you visit other eduroam-enabled institutions, you can use your Ulster credentials to connect to the internet via their eduroam service.
Whilst using eduroam, you are bound by Ulster Acceptable Use Code of Practice , the JANET Network and technology policies and any similar policies in the visited organisation.
The 'Visited' service means visitors from institutions providing an eduroam “home” service for their staff and students should be able to use eduroam at Ulster.
Before you visit Ulster, configure your device according to your own organisation’s instructions.
Instructions on this page will only work for Ulster University staff and students.
If you have any issues connecting to eduroam, support should be provided by your own organisation.
Whilst using eduroam, you are bound by Ulster Acceptable Use Code of Practice , the JANET Acceptable Use policy and any similar policies in your own organisation.
Users must not share eduroam credentials with others.
For instance, a user might want to provide temporary access for a friend, or a visiting lecturer from a non-eduroam organisation might want immediate network access.
It should be clear that this is not acceptable or safe and would result in you being held accountable for any misuse.
Your password is not simply something that provides network access but is also a critical part of your online identity, often providing access to e-mail, file storage and VPNs that may contain highly personal and sensitive information, i.e.
it is like a passport and MUST NOT be shared with anyone.
Please Note: Advice provided by the Service Desk for smartphones is on a 'best endeavour' basis and not guaranteed to work.
Alternatively, you can download generic configuration settings which may help you configure unlisted devices.
If you have configured your device and have previously connected successfully to eduroam at another organisation, the issues may be caused by one from the following list.
Please check these, and if you are still experiencing difficulties, Contact the Service Desk .
If you change your University password, you would need to update your eduroam credentials stored on all your devices.
If your device tries to automatically connect to the eduroam wireless service with the outdated password, your IT account may be locked to avoid security issues and unauthorised access to your account.
The easiest way to update these credentials on your devices is to forget the eduroam network connection, and recreate it.
This will allow you to type in the new login details.
Menus on an Android device differ depending on manufacturer and software version, but generally you can  forget a Wi-Fi network on your Android device by carrying out the steps below:
If you are a member of Ulster University staff or a student, and have configured your device to connect to eduroam and are still having problems, please check the following:
When you have configured your device, it should work when you are within range of a live eduroam visitor service.
You can test your eduroam connection at the University before going to another eduroam-enabled organisation.
If it works here, then it should also work when you visit any other eduroam-enabled organisation without modifying your settings.
In order for eduroam to work, you need to logon with your username (including domain).
For further details, please consult the appropriate setup guide for your operating system/device as listed on the Ulster eduroam page.
Please check these, and if you are still experiencing difficulties, Contact the Service Desk.
The operation of eduroam is dependent on operation of the other Wi-Fi networking services within Ulster.
If you have pre-configured your eduroam connection as per the instructions provided and are still having difficulty connecting, please Contact the Service Desk.
You may not have the most up-to-date security certificate.
To check if your certificate is up-to-date, scroll up the page and check the published date listed beside the “Download Security Certificate” link.
If you configured your device before this date, you will need to update your certificate in order to connect.
Using the information/documents provided above, download and install the new certificate on your device.
Ulster University staff and students: Contact the Digital Services Service Desk
Visitors: Contact IT support in your own organisation
Any Ulster staff or student and visitors to the Ulster University who have Eduroam supported by their own institution..
ICT Infrastructure

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/ds/services/cyber-security/multi-factor-authentication:
Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) is an additional layer of security that can prevent unauthorised access to your University account by combining something you know (your username and password) with something you have (e.g.
a code from a mobile application) to prove your identity.
MFA is a measure to combat the increasingly sophisticated cyberattacks.
Once set up with MFA, even if an attacker manages to learn your password, they will still need your mobile to log in to your email or SharePoint.
Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) is enabled for all staff and student accounts.
When you access your Ulster account successfully for the first time using a laptop, you will be prompted with the message "Let's keep your account secure".
This is to set up your Multi-Factor Authentication.
The guides below will help you to set up MFA and keep your information up to date.
Add, Delete or Edit MFA Methods
Multi Factor Authentication pairs your University password with an additional form of security, usually as app on your smart phone.
You will only be asked to authenticate using MFA when you are working or studying off site and accessing University services.
However, due to the increasingly sophisticated levels of cybercrime, it is essential that everyone who uses a University account to access services sets up their account with an additional security method as soon as possible.
MFA is implemented as a way to combat cyberattacks, of which Universities are a prime target.
We want to ensure you are protected on and off campus and that your personal information remains secure.
Keeping your University account secure will protect both the organisation and your own personal data.
Your personal mobile phone details are not used for any other purpose than protecting your account.
By adding the Microsoft Authenticator App to your personal phone this is just providing a method to confirm who you are.
The app is not used to manage or control your phone or provide any personal data.
The Microsoft Authenticator App does not request any personal information, it simply holds an electronic token unique to your University account.
The Microsoft Authenticator App is the preferred method and will give you the best experience however, if your phone is incapable of running the App, you can select the alternative method of a phone call.
You can change your default MFA method by visiting the Additional Security Verification page .
You can also download the 'Authenticator App' to your tablet.
Remember to always register an alternative method of MFA for emergencies, such as your home landline.
If you have alternate authentication methods configured in your Additional Security Verification page then please select “Sign in another way” at the MFA prompt screen.
Once logged in you can now update or change your phone number.
If you are unable to sign in another way, please contact the Service Desk on servicedesk@ulster.ac.uk or log a call via the UniDesk Self Service Portal , as you will need your MFA reset.
The recommended method, and easiest to use, is  the Microsoft Authenticator app on your smartphone or tablet.
The free app can be downloaded to your phone from:
You can also receive a voice call, where all you need to do is tap the '#; key.
The phone call refers to it as the 'pound sign'.
You should select one of these methods as your default, but we recommend you also set up an alternative emergency method such as a home landline so your have an alternative method in the event there is an issue with your mobile device.
The FAQ section of the O365 MFA guide (Page 6), provides the steps you must follow to edit your verification methods and select a default.
If you have kept the same mobile number, then as long as you followed the set-up guide and selected a call to your mobile number as a secondary method you can choose to 'sign in another way' and will receive a call to your phone.
Once logged in, delete the record that shows your original Authenticator method as that will be linked to your old mobile phone.
You must then add the Authenticator app method again using '+Add method' button and download the Authenticator app on to your new mobile phone.
You should log in to your account while you still have access to you old phone , in order to add Additional Security Verification methods.
Here you can add the 'Phone number' method and provide your new mobile phone number and you can also add the Authenticator app method again using '+Add method' button and download the Authenticator app on to your new mobile phone.
This will ensure that when you lose access to your old phone and number you will not be locked out of your account.
Do not delete the app, unless you have already registered alternative methods of MFA, such as the 'Phone me' option.
You will need it to log in to Ulster University services.
Instructions for Adding, Editing and Removing old MFA authentication methods can be found at the following link:
Adding, Editing and Removing MFA Authentication Methods
The following steps will require you to carry out some steps on your phone and some on your desktop/laptop so we have indicated which you use for each step.
Note: Each Code and URL are different for each account.
DO NOT under any circumstances approve any notifications that you know aren't for your own logins .
This could be a sign that someone else is trying to access your account.
You can check any recent activity by accessing your Microsoft Security Information and clicking on "Recent Activity" on the menu at the left-hand side of the screen.
If you believe there is any suspicious activity/failed logins that you don't recognise, please contact servicedesk@ulster.ac.uk for advice.
If you are prompted to accept a MFA request when logging into a system, but your mobile phone is not connected to Wi-Fi, and does not have a 3G/4G internet connection, you can follow the below steps.
Please note: This will only work if you have set up the Microsoft Authenticator App and linked it to your Ulster University account.
For further information please refer to the document "Authentication Standard" available at:
University Staff, Students and 3rd Party Users who have been sponsored and authorised.
ICT Customer Services
Ulster University Office 365 Multi-Factor Authentication First Time Setup Guide
Ensure you don't lose access to your account.
Instructions for adding, editing and deleting MFA authentication methods

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/ds/staff/visitors-and-associates:
Visitors wishing to use University wireless services must login using a temporary account provided by the University for this purpose.
There are two main account types, Guest and Associate.
'Guest' accounts are for those requiring short term access for a definite period of time, while those who require access over a prolonged period of time must apply for an 'Associate' account.
Visitors who are registered in an eduroam-enabled institution, and have their devices configured correctly prior to their visit to the University do not require another account.
Details about eduroam services are available .
Additionally, 'Visitor' accounts are available for those who do not need wireless access but instead need to login to a University workstation within a centrally supported Laboratory, Library Open Access Areas or Teaching Room for a short term, definite period of time.
Please note that Visitor, Guest and  Associates Accounts require sponsorship by an employee at the University.
This may be a conference organiser or a research/exchange supervisor.
A person, external to the University, that is:
Less than a month.
Guests receive wireless only login account, to avail of the internet, for which there is a fixed time limit that is normally specified at the outset.
Visitors will be provided with an account enabling them to login to a workstation within a centrally supported Laboratory, Library Open Access Area or Teaching Room for which there is a fixed time limit that is normally specified at the outset.
This account will have no wireless access.
A person, external to the University, that is
Greater than a month.
Associates receive A-codes.
In addition to internet access, Associates of the University will be provided with a standard Ulster University email address.
They may also be provided with access to any relevant corporate services.
These will be deleted when the person's formal association with the University is terminated.
This is a self-provisioning service for use on all campuses.
While on campus, the guest can connect to the Guest wireless service and complete an online form.
An email will be sent to the guest’s staff sponsor, who will then approve the guest's access.
Note: In order to approve Guest WiFi access, you need to access the approval link either on-campus, or use a remote access method such as Axis Atmos or Checkpoint VPN.
If your visitor requires access to Teaching Room/Library PC's, please request a Visitor Account.
To request Visitor accounts please complete the Visitor Template spreadsheet and send to servicedesk@ulster.ac.uk.
To ensure your request is actioned and accounts are provisioned within the required timescale please:
Download a copy of the Visitor Template spreadsheet , fill in and send to servicedesk@ulster.ac.uk .
Please do not remove any columns from the spreadsheet.
Only the information shown as per the example record within the template is required, as indicated above.
Please also note there is no requirement for the Visitor to provide their DOB and we should not request it.
Where information is shown left deliberately blank in the example record within the template, please also leave this blank.
As a member of staff, you may 'sponsor' a person who is not a member of University staff to have access to IT facilities for the purposes of the business needs of the University.
Personal information, period of association and primary association status details will be required.
Sponsors initiate the request through the A3M System
Further information on Visitor and Associate Accounts can be found in the Digital Services IT Service Catalogue

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/ds/getting-help/self-help:
Digital Services offer a wide range of useful resources and advice to assist you in your studies and making the most of the services and technologies we provide.
.
You can find answers to our most regularly received IT queries on our web pages and within the Unidesk self-service portal knowledge base.
Browse our web site or visit our Unidesk Self-Service page for further information about how to login and use the self-service portal.
Details of planned and unplanned service interruptions or updates regarding any major IT-related incident will be provided as appropriate via:
The following are great online resources:
Please check if your dedicated School IT technical support can help you with initial troubleshooting.
If they can not resolve the problem, ask them to contact the Service Desk on your behalf, providing all relevant troubleshooting attempted.
If you appear to have a problem with your device, please try the following before contacting the service desk:
Staff can register for our Digital Skills events which will enhance your confidence in using technology and help you get the most from our services.
Topics include Microsoft 365 Applications, JISC surveys, Vevox, Panopto and Classroom technology training.
Staff may also access LinkedIn Learning via the staff portal or the LinkedIn Learning website .
A collection of short videos which are intended to assist you in the use of IT services.
Self-service password reset within O365 enables Staff and Student to securely reset their University account password 24/7 without contacting the Digital Services IT Service Desk.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/ds/staff/microsoft-365/microsoft-teams:
Microsoft Teams (also known as MS Teams or Teams) is a secure Office 365 collaboration tool that helps teams stay organised and connected, bringing conversations and content together in one place.
MS Teams integrates directly with Office 365 applications such as SharePoint , OneDrive and Planner making it easy for staff to communicate and collaborate securely wherever they are.
You can schedule meetings using Teams through your Outlook calendar.
Meetings in Teams can be audio or video conference sessions that allow people to connect from any device.
You can Schedule a Teams Meeting from Outlook
Or you can open MS Teams and:
You can Manage your meetings through your calendar and start the meeting, by clicking on it from your Calendar in either Teams or Outlook.
Microsoft have created a Teams interactive demo , which you can use to get a feel for what Teams is like before you start using the programme.
Note that your own MS Teams interface may look slightly different as Microsoft are continually updating the platform.
Web browser (Currently the preferred method):
Note: Microsoft Teams web app is not available for the Safari web browser.
The Microsoft Teams web app no longer supports Internet Explorer 11.
To have Teams running all the time on your desktop, download the desktop app.
You can find it easily on the web version of the Teams client, in the bottom left hand section of the purple side bar.
Depending on your device, you should be able to install Teams without being prompted for admin permissions.
If you have any issues please contact servicedesk@ulster.ac.uk .
To use Teams on a mobile device, go to the app store and install the Teams app.
Enter your full University email address, in the format an.other@ulster.ac.uk and your Network password and click 'Sign In ' .
We recommend referring to the following to find out more about MS Teams and specific functionality as it becomes available.
Here you will find links to Microsoft training videos and easy to follow guides categorised by feature to make it easier to find what you need quickly.
To request activation for full telephony on Teams, contact the Unified Communications Team at :
Telephone: +442870124110 Email: telephones@ulster.ac.uk
You can arrange audio/video meetings online without needing a Team collaboration area to be set up.
To apply for a Team ‘Site’ and ‘Channel’ complete a MS Teams site request form .
All Microsoft apps are enabled for use in these collaboration areas.
Ensure that the Teams Desktop Client is installed, Close Outlook and then reload it.
The Teams icon should now appear.
MS Teams Breakout rooms are available to meeting organisers.
You can find out more by following the link or by contacting Digitalskills@ulster.ac.uk .
Within the Teams App you will some icons on the left hand side.
If “Calls” does not appear here you can add it by using the “...” at the bottom of the icon list.
Once you have added “Calls” you may want to right click on this to “pin” it to the list of icons so you don’t have to repeat this.
Within the Teams Mobile App you will see some icons on the bottom of the screen.
Selecting “...
More” at the right of these will show more features of Teams.
Clicking “reorder” at the top right of this pane will allow you to (if necessary) move something out of the top five items that you use so that you can move “Calls” into that top five.
This will allow you to see the Calls icon directly within the app.
Select the three dots in the upper right-hand corner beside your initials and select settings
Scroll down to devices and at the bottom there is an option to add a secondary ringer which can be the laptop device or a USB device.
It is important that you consider Protecting Information when sharing information in MS Teams.
Also we recommend you complete the LinkedIn Learning training on Cyber Security & Safer Digital Communications .

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/ds/events:
View upcoming Digital Services events.
We offer training in a range of applications to help you get the digital skills you need.
Keep up to date with Digital Services news and events.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/library/services:
Read our guide to get started using library services.
More details on standard, two week & two day loans, along with borrower entitlements for different types of user.
Links to renewal, fines & e-payment information are available.
Details about the Library's journal collection, including print journals, electronic journals and the UFindit service.
Details of learning spaces at each campus library, including study spaces, silent study areas, group study rooms & PC availability.
The Library laptop lending service is now available at all campus libraries.
The Library hot locker service, for charging and storing your devices, is now available at Belfast library.
View the range of electronic resources offered by Library Services.
The Library holds a significant number of special collections of local, national & international interest.
Collections are held separately from the main stock in the library and access conditions will vary.
Enquiries from both members of the University & external researchers are welcome.
The Document Delivery Service is used to request books which are not available from the Library, as well as journal articles which you cannot obtain from the print or electronic collection.
View the Document Delivery Request Form.
Users may suggest a purchase using the Stock Purchase Request form for books that are not available from the Library.
A centralised service for scanning & digital storage of required material.
Information on services for specific types of user, including details of tailored services.
Details of borrowing schemes and access arrangement for external users.
The University Archive, established in 2002, reflects the history & development of the University and its predecessor institutions.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/library/electronic-resources:
USearch, the Library's discovery service, offers a Google-like search across many of the Library's databases and eresources.
Access details, descriptions, passwords, user guides & more are available here.
You can login to OpenAthens protected resources with your University credentials.
Access the Library's reading list catalogue, designed to guide you to the books, journals & other resources selected by lecturers.
Exam papers can be searched by course reference number (CRN), module number or keywords in the module description.
A list of external library catalogues, including QUB and the British Library.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/library/library-catalogue:
Use the library catalogue to help you find resources.
The Library Catalogue provides access to the bibliographic details of nearly one million items (including printed materials, videos, DVDs, slides etc) held by the University Library.
Access and search the catalogue from the Library homepage, the University Portal or Blackboard Learn.
Use the Library Catalogue to discover what is available on the shelves at each campus Library and search our collection of electronic books.
You can view your Library account ('My Account') by logging in using your University ID and network password.
Here you will be able to view current loans & reservations and renew items as required.
The Library Catalogue provides access to the bibliographic details of nearly one million items (including printed materials, videos, DVDs, etc) held by the University Library.
Access Advanced Search.
Access your MyLibrary account.
Access External Library catalogues.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/library/subject-guides:
Library subject staff prepare online guides to help you find materials for your studies or research.
Subject guides cover books, journals, e-books, e-journals, databases, internet resources and much more.
Visit the Library Subject Guides website and check out the guide for your subject or visit the Subject Guides homepage for your faculty.
View all subject guides.
View subject guides for Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences.
View subject guides for Computing, Engineering and the Built Environment.
View subject guides for Life and Health Sciences.
View subject guides for Ulster University Business School.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/library/help:
Details of how to get help in the Library, from the Library Answers service, and Library Chat, to contact details.
Simply click the Library Chat button on the right of this screen.
You can chat to Library staff during these times:
Use Library Answers to browse and search FAQs or submit your own question.
Ring 028 7012 4141 during Library staffed opening hours .
Contact subject librarians .
View answers to frequently asked questions or submit a query of your own.
The Library Getting Started Guide, with videos and useful links.
Digital Services pages to inform all students, whether full-time, part-time or distance learners, about the facilities and services provided by DS and how to access them.
View the Library Essentials Guide.
The Library aims to ensure that all Ulster students become digitally and information literate through the provision of effective learning and teaching opportunities.
Information on training and workshops.
Get in touch with Library Services.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/library/about:
Details about the Library including policy and strategy documents.
Find out out how to keep up-to-date via updates, blogs and Twitter.
The Library's handy Getting Started page includes links for Induction, Information Skills, key services/resources & other essential information.
Each campus library is a modern learning space providing integrated library services, resources, study space & student computing with generous opening hours.
Details of Library opening hours (staffed).
The Library Subject Guides Blog is maintained by subject staff & aims to keep you informed of the latest developments in support of your subject area.
Follow Library Services on Twitter and stay up to date.
Follow Library Services on Instagram and stay up to date.
The Library places great importance on keeping our users informed and listening to what they have to say about our service.
Key documents about the Library including Annual Reports, Library Services Strategy and policy documents.
The Library aims to provide learning environments which support users to achieve academic success.
Meet just some of the library staff team who will help you to make the most of the spaces, resources and technology to support learning, teaching and research.
The people, perspectives and partnerships transforming library life for all those who use find a home in our spaces and inspiration in our resources.
Together we shape our sustainable future.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/library/services/document-delivery:
The Document Delivery Service is used to request books which are not available from any of the University's three Libraries, as well as journal articles which you cannot obtain from your own campus library or from the extensive  e-journals collection.
Before requesting material via document delivery, always check the Library Catalogue (for books, e-books and print journals) and USearch (for databases and e-journals) first to make sure the Library cannot already provide it from its resources.
Your document delivery request is governed by the following terms and conditions, which must be agreed to before submitting a request.
Copyright declaration for article requests:
I hereby request you to supply me with a copy of the item specified which I require for the purpose of research or private study.
I declare that:
I have not previously been supplied with the same material by any librarian
I will not use the copy except for research for a non-commercial purpose or private study
I will not supply a copy of it to any other person
To the best of my knowledge no other person with whom I work or study has made, or intends to make, at or about the same time as this request, a request for substantially the same material for substantially the same purpose.
I understand that if this declaration is false in a material particular the copy supplied to me will be an infringing copy and that I shall be liable for infringement as if I had made the copy myself.
All current students and staff of the University who are in 'good standing' (i.e.
no overdue books or outstanding fines) may use the service.
If you are a student on a Distance Learning programme, additional support information is available, including the specifics of using the document delivery service for your mode of study.
The service is not available for Alumni or Civic Access borrowers.
Weekly limits may apply for document delivery requests.
Undergraduate and postgraduate students may normally request a total of 4 items per week.
Research students and academic staff may request a total of 8 items per week.
We understand that sometimes you may need more than the weekly limit if you're undertaking a systematic review, dissertation or final year project.
If you think it likely you will require more than the above allowance, please contact your Document Delivery office or your Subject Libarian to discuss your requirements before submitting your requests.
Please note there may be limits on how many items you can request.
Copies: According to the Copyright licensing Agency (CLA) students and members of staff can request copies 'within clearly defined limits'.
In practice you will normally be able to request one article from a single issue of a journal, one paper from the published proceedings of a conference, one chapter from a book or 10% of the publication, whichever is the greater.
Loans: We will try to borrow a copy of books requested from The British Library and other UK libraries, although in some cases we may not be able to borrow what you have asked for.
Please note that we are unable to facilitate the loan of an eBook but we may be able to source one individual chapter from an eBook.
Requests can be made using the online request form (you will need to log in to view this form).
A guide to completing your online request is available.
A notification will be sent from InterLibraryLoans-[Campus] to your Ulster email address once the item has arrived.
All loanable material (e.g.
books) is collected from the Library.
The length of the loan of a document delivery item varies, as it is at the discretion of the lending library.
Please ensure the item is returned by the date given, but if you need to extend a loan please contact your document delivery office .
It is advisable to return any document delivery loans before going on leave or fieldwork.
Some items may be supplied to us marked for Library Use Only.
In this event you will not be able to borrow them but may consult them in the Library during the loan period.
All journal articles are delivered electronically by default via email and will include details of how to access your article.
Your article will be provided as either a PDF, or for access via a secure link.
There is often a 30-day limit in relation to the length of time you can access the item that you have requested.
Please note that library staff are unable to recover the article for you after the limit has been reached.
Document Delivery material may be renewed subject to agreement from the lending library.
However, it should be noted that renewals are totally at the discretion of the lending library and there is no guarantee that they will be permitted.
Please contact your Document Delivery office for further information.
Please note, however, that document delivery items are subject to recall at any time.
You can check the return date by logging in to your library account.
Ulster staff and students will receive email notification of overdue and in demand items.
The British Library charges a minimum of £214.30 for the replacement of items which are long overdue, damaged or lost.
This cost is charged to the borrower responsible and includes a non-refundable administrative charge of £107.15, even if the book is subsequently returned.
Items in demand which are not returned promptly will also incur the above charges.
If you need details of the requests you have made in the current academic year please contact your Document Delivery Office .
You can check the progress of your document delivery requests using the Library Catalogue.
To do so:
You can easily check the status of a Document Delivery request by logging into the My Account area of the Library Catalogue with your campus card number.
Under the 'Document Delivery Requests' heading you will see a list of any 'active' i.e.
outstanding Document Delivery requests.
Under the 'status' column you will be able to see the progress of your request:
Status of books and materials that are sent to the library for you to borrow:
Status of copies of articles and papers:
If you no longer require an item that you have requested please contact your Document Delivery Office and we will check if it is possible to cancel it.
Unfortunately, depending on the progress of the request this may not always be possible.
EThOS is the new way to access UK doctoral theses.
Rather than making a request via the document delivery service you simply go to the EThOS website , create your own free account and start searching.
In many instances a thesis can be instantly downloaded to your computer.
An order can be placed for items not immediately available however charges may apply.
You may search the entire collection to see the range of dissertations, or limit your search to those items available for immediate download.
Select any full-text dissertations you require and add to the basket.
If you are using the Index to Theses database, click on the holdings information link on the bottom right of the abstract result page.
This will link to additional information, including whether a thesis is available via EThOS or possibly via that university's own Institutional Repository (with a link to the full-text where available).
For more information, please contact the Document Delivery staff on your campus.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/library/contact/contact-subject-librarians/subject-support-appointments:
Book a subject support appointment with your subject librarian.
If you require help with Library databases, finding the information you require, referencing, literature reviews or any other subject support matter, book an appointment with a subject librarian at your campus using the links below.
Select your campus library:
Appointments must be booked at least 24 hours in advance.
Appointments are available up to 2 weeks in advance.
Only valid Library users may book using their Ulster email address.
If there are no appointments available, please contact subject librarians at your campus directly .

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/library/help/training-and-workshops:
The Library runs numerous training workshops throughout the academic year.
All upcoming workshops are available to view and book via the Library training calendar .
Details of individual workshops are listed below.
Audience : All faculties and research support staff.
Description : This 1h session will provide information on the funding available to Ulster University researchers to publish their works in open access.
The session is recommended to all academic staff, researchers, and research support staff.
UKRI-funded authors will have an opportunity to learn about support available to them to ensure compliance with funder open access requirements.
Booking : View all upcoming Open Access Publishing workshops .
Description : Licensing is crucial in academic publishing: it determines how others can discover, use, share, and build upon the published work.
This 1h session will help authors understand their rights in the academic publishing landscape.
It will provide information on how to retain your copyright and how to choose a copyright licence that improves the discoverability and impact of your research and meets funder requirements.
Booking : View all upcoming workshops .
Audience : All students and staff
Description : RefWorks workshops are regularly scheduled for Library users.
If you would like to learn how to use this important tool to manage your references online, please book a session.
Booking : View all upcoming RefWorks workshops .
Audience : Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences; Computing, Engineering and the Built Environment; Ulster University Business School.
Description : These workshops will run online and will demonstrate basic techniques for completing a Harvard reference for books, journals and web pages.
Learning Outcomes : Understand why referencing is important; Know how to insert citations in the text of your work; Know how to prepare a list of references in the Ulster University Harvard style;  Know where to find help and advice on referencing and citing in our online Harvard Referencing web pages .
Booking : View all upcoming Harvard Referencing (AHSS, CEBE, UUBS) workshops .
For further support, please see the Harvard Referencing guide and the associated video guides.
Audience : Law
Description : These workshops will run online and will demonstrate basic techniques for completing a OSCOLA reference for books, journals & web pages.
Learning Outcomes : Be aware of general principles underlying OSCOLA referencing; Create basic footnotes for a case,  legislation, a book, a journal article, a web page; Know where to find more help online and in print with OSCOLA citations; Understand plagiarism and know how to avoid it.
Booking : View all upcoming OSCOLA Referencing workshops .
For further support, please see the OSCOLA Referencing Skills section (including videos) of the Law subject guide .
Audience : Life & Health Sciences
Description : These workshops will run online for Life and Health Sciences students and will demonstrate basic techniques for completing an American Psychological Association (APA) reference for books, journals and web pages.
Plagiarism will also be covered.
Learning Outcomes : Understand why referencing is essential; Understand how to avoid plagiarism; Learn how to insert in-text citations; Learn how to create a reference list; Identify sources of help.
Booking : View all upcoming APA Referencing workshops .
For further support, please see the APA Referencing guide .
Description : These workshops will run online and will demonstrate basic techniques for completing a Life & Health Sciences Harvard reference for books, journals and web pages.
Booking : View all upcoming Harvard Referencing (LHS) workshops .
For further support, please see the LHS Harvard Referencing guide and the associated video guides.
Audience : Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences
Description :  Do you have a question about using Library resources, finding information or with citing and referencing?
Why not book on to one of our online subject specific Library drop-in clinics where you can speak to one of our subject librarians.
Please register in advance using the registration form (registration closes 1hr before the start of the event).
Attendees should join the event 5mins before the start to allow time for set-up.
Please provide as much information as possible about your query on the registration form.
Booking : View all upcoming AHSS online drop-in sessions .
Audience : Computing, Engineering and the Built Environment
Booking : View all upcoming CEBE online drop-in sessions .
Audience : Life and Health Sciences
Booking : View all upcoming LHS online drop-in sessions .
Audience : Ulster University Business School
Booking : View all upcoming UUBS online drop-in sessions .

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/library/help/getting-started-in-the-library:
Library tours are scheduled at each campus.
Full details can be found in the schedules shown on the University's Welcome Week page .
Self-guided immersive virtual tours of the Belfast Campus Library Level 1 and Level 2 are now available.
These tours have been created by the Ulster University's Digital Twin Club.
A narrated overview of Library services.
How to authenticate to Library e-resources.
Browse or submit a query via Library Answers.
How to authenticate to the Library's OpenAthens protected e-resources.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/library/contact:
Details of a number of ways to contact the Library.
Ring +44 (0)28 7012 4141 during staffed Library Opening Hours .
(If calling from within the University dial ext.24141)
Email questions, comments or suggestions via the Library Answers service or directly to ask@ulster.libanswers.com
Contact Library subject librarians .
Follow Ulster University Library on X .
Follow Ulster University Library on Instagram .
Check the Library Blogs .
Read answers for frequently asked questions.
Contact and address details for campus libraries.
Contact details, appointment booking, enquiry forms and subject guides for Library subject librarians.
Contact details for the Library's document delivery office.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/library/updates/events/open-research-training-workshops:
New Library training workshops on open access publishing, copyright & licencing which are launching during Semester 1 2025/26.
The Library is thrilled to announce new training workshops on Open Access publishing, copyright and licencing which are launching during Semester 1 of the 2025/26 academic year.
The Library’s Open Research team is hosting a series of online training workshops which are open to all researchers at Ulster University.
These sessions will detail the funding opportunities available for Open Access publishing, guidance on meeting funder Open Access requirements, and participants will also learn how to retain their copyright and select a copyright licence that enhances the visibility and impact of their research.
Full details, including dates of these sessions and registration links, can be found on the Training & Workshops page .
The sessions are bookable via the Open Access Guide or directly on the Library Training Calendar .
If you want more details about these workshops or have open access publishing queries please get in touch with the Library’s Open Research team via Library-OpenAccess@ulster.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/library/updates/resources/ebsco-databases-new-user-interface:
EBSCO has launched a new user interface for its EBSCOhost platform, designed to make your research journey smoother, faster & more intuitive.
We’re pleased to announce that EBSCO, one of our most popular academic database suppliers, has launched a new user interface for its EBSCOhost platform, designed to make your research journey smoother, faster and more intuitive.
Whether you're conducting a quick search or building a complex query, the updated platform offers a range of enhancements to help you find and manage information more effectively.
Streamlined Search Tools:
Enhanced Research Management:
Accessibility & Usability:
EBSCO databases benefitting from the new UI include: British Education Index , Business Source Ultimate , CINAHL Ultimate , ERIC , Hospitality and Tourism Complete , MLA International Bibliography , RILM Music Abstracts and SPORTdiscus .
Explore the enhanced interface today by visiting the Library Databases page and selecting any of the available EBSCO databases or the general EBSCOhost entry.
If you require further support using the new interface with these databases, please contact your campus subject librarian or submit a query via Library Answers .

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/library/updates/resources/introducing-browzine-browsing-electronic-journals:
BrowZine, a powerful electronic journals service designed to transform how our students and staff discover, read, and stay current with the latest scholarly journals.
The Library is thrilled to introduce BrowZine , a powerful electronic journals service designed to transform how students and staff discover, read, and stay current with the latest scholarly journals.
Think of BrowZine as a personalised, virtual newsstand for academic content, accessible anytime, anywhere.
BrowZine sits alongside the Library’s Electronic Journals site and offers an alternative way to browse and discover e-journals.
BrowZine offers a seamless and intuitive experience, bringing thousands of subscribed e-journals directly to your fingertips.
This innovative platform can be an indispensable tool for researchers, students, and faculty across all disciplines at Ulster University.
BrowZine is available from the Library Databases page and across the Library websites.
Alternatively, download the BrowZine app from your device's app store ( iOS , Android or Amazon ) and select Ulster University from the list of institutions.
Please note, a separate personal registration for a BrowZine account is required for personalisation such as 'My Bookshelf' and 'My Articles'.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/library/electronic-resources/e-books:
The Ulster University Library has a growing collection of electronic books, also known as eBooks.
There are over 5,000 eBook titles on the Library Catalogue , and we are continually adding individual e-book titles where they meet the requirements of teaching and research at Ulster.
eBooks are available across all subject areas, and can be accessed from anywhere at any time.
You can print or copy selected sections of eBooks, and search for keywords within the text of the book.
You can  access Library eBooks via the Library Catalogue .
You can refine any search to just the eBooks collection to view only   eBook results:
The location of the book is displayed as 'E-library' and a link is provided to access the full text of the eBook.
Many eBook suppliers require users to login via the OpenAthens authentication system in order to access the full eBook.
Once you have logged in via OpenAthens, you will not be prompted to login for other eBooks, or e-resources, during your browsing session.
In addition, there are over 700,000 other full text books available via various resources on the Library databases page , many of which do not appear in the Library Catalogue.
The main solely full text eBook collections are listed below though there are many other scholarly databases which contain eBooks.
These can be discovered by exploring your Library subject guides and databases pages or by just contacting us .
Contains full text or page images from over 350,000 books published in England from 1475 to 1900.
Draws together content from two of the best-known and longest-established early book collections (EEBO & ECCO), as well as unique titles from the British Library 19th Centure Collection.
This IET eBook collection provides unlimited access to 400+ highly specialised publications via an advanced online platform with improved accessibility, display, navigation & mobile enabled views.
Science and engineering reference books, including ASM Handbooks and ASM Alloy Center [Titles also available via Library Catalogue]
A fully searchable library of 330,000+ works of English and American poetry, drama and prose, plus biographies, bibliographies and key secondary sources.
O'Reilly Learning includes electronic books covering all aspects of computing, programming & IT.
New titles are added on a regular basis.
Search by keyword across all titles, or read the chapter or book you want online.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/library/electronic-resources/openathens:
A huge amount of the Library’s information is now made available online e.g.
electronic journals, e-books and databases.
Many of these e-resources are protected using OpenAthens authentication.
OpenAthens is an access management system used by some UK universities for controlling access to online resources and services.
Authenticating to OpenAthens enables you to access many of the Library's online databases, electronic journals and e-books using your Ulster credentials and move seamlessly to other resources without a further login challenge.
For a full list of the databases that are protected by OpenAthens authentication, please consult the Library Databases page .
OpenAthens protected resources listed on the databases page are identified by the following symbol:
Access to the Library's OpenAthens protected e-resources is restricted to staff and students of the University (see the Terms & Conditions of Use page for more details).
You will be required to authenticate before accessing OpenAthens protected resources and, if identified as an Ulster user, will be directed to the Ulster University single sign-on (SSO) page.
If you're already logged into another Ulster University SSO enabled service (email, Portal, BlackBoard Learn, etc.) you should pass straight to the e-resource without seeing a login prompt.
When accessing some OpenAthens protected resources for the first time, you may be faced with a generic OpenAthens login screen (see below).
If so, you must search using the 'Find your institution' box in order to navigate to the correct login page.
A search for Ulster will present an Ulster University link.
Clicking the link will take you to the familiar single sign-on page as used by other Ulster University services.
Logging in successfully here will take you to the desired e-resource.
If you are identified as an Ulster University member (student or staff) when accessing an OpenAthens protected resource, you should be presented with the familiar single sign-on (SSO) page, as used by many University services.
In some few cases you may need to use the 'Find your institution' search on the generic OpenAthens page to identify your institution (as above).
Login with your email address and network password at the Ulster University SSO page.
You may also see a Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) prompt when logging in.
If you are already logged into an Ulster University SSO enabled service, you may pass straight to the e-resource without seeing any further login prompts.
A successful OpenAthens authentication via the Ulster SSO page will keep you authenticated during your browser session, preventing further login challenges from other OpenAthens resources.
All users must adhere to terms and conditions of use with regard the Library's e-resources.
Please remember, you must not divulge usernames & passwords to anyone and that use of the Library's e-resources for commercial benefit is strictly prohibited.
Some services do not permit off-campus use.
Check the Library Databases page for details.
The Ulster University single sign-on page is the only login page that will take your University credentials when accessing OpenAthens resources.
If you see the generic OpenAthens login page, please follow the instructions detailed above.
If you see any other form of login screen, look for options to login via your institution/organisation or for an OpenAthens login link elsewhere on the page or site.
If you experience any difficulties accessing Library e-resources, please contact us via the Library Answers service .

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/employability/edge:
Completing the Ulster EDGE Award will help you develop the skills you need for a successful future career by completing extra curricular activities that suit your career goals and skill development needs.
New experiences, connections and skills
Want to improve your job prospects?
Improve your confidence?
Expand your network?
The Ulster EDGE Award will help you achieve this through a range of tailored extra curricular activities that you can complete alongside your degree.
If you are completing the Ulster EDGE Award, Ulster EDGE Excel Award or Ulster EDGE Award (Postgraduate), you must complete a short final application in advance of your graduation.
If you are graduating in December the deadline for your final application is October.
What does the experience of the EDGE Class of 2024 say about what EDGE can do for you?
EDGE & EDGE Excel Summer 2024 Graduates
EDGE activities completed by Class of 2024
Development of confidence through EDGE
Each attribute is supported by four skills and several associated behavioural indicators which help clarify how a student or graduate might evidence that attribute.
Someone who has the ability to be resilient, accept and embrace change, seeking to mentally grow themselves and those around...
Someone who is knowledgeable and able to deepen their understanding about their subject and the world.
Someone who is able to contribute to society widely and especially in their field of knowledge.
Someone who is engaging, ethical, sustainable, making a positive impact.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/employability/jobs-and-placements:
Whether you are in first year, final year or already graduated you can access hundreds of job opportunities every year.
Select the relevant job type now to view and apply for opportunities.
Students and Graduates can access graduate, work experience and Campus job opportunities via Handshake.
View paid internships open to students and graduates across subject areas.
Access hundreds of high quality global internship and placement opportunities.
Enhance your networks, develop your skills and realise your career ambitions.
Student Circus is an online jobs platform specifically for International Students helping you connect with opportunities and employers who proactively recruit International Students.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/employability/international-opportunities:
Working Abroad allows you to spend part of your undergraduate degree working with a global employer and develop your global business networks.
We have relationships with  many employers in Europe and across the globe.
UMAL, have confirmed there will still be cover for Covid-19 related emergency medical expenses but that Covid-19 will be excluded from travel curtailment and disruption claims.
Please read through the policy carefully.
With restrictions easing we are in a position to assess opportunities for future international mobility that are considered essential to the student experience.
We advise you to continue preparations but to avoid making financial commitments to cover flights, accommodation, insurances or payments to internship providers.
Below are the Q&As in relation to Mobility during Coronavirus
It is mandatory for all students to complete a Travel Preparation Assessment Form which will indicate your preparedness for going abroad.
Your submitted form will be reviewed by Employability & Careers and your Placement Tutor.
You will receive an email regarding the outcome of your mobility and advise you on the current FCDO guidance in your host country.
Remember that mobility will be reliant on FCDO guidance at the time of travel and can be revoked prior to the start of your placement.
We ask that you avoid making any financial commitments.
If your work placement is in the Republic of Ireland, you will not need to undertake this process.
Under no circumstances should you start your mobility without prior approval.
Yes, all students hoping to work abroad this academic year will also be responsible for filling out a Travel Preparation Assessment prior to the start of their mobility.
This form will help us and your placement tutor assess the potential risks of your mobility.
You will need to submit a Travel Preparation Assessment form minimum 2 weeks prior to departure.
The aims of the form are to:
Please be mindful when completing this mandatory form, as it will be reviewed by employability & Careers as well as your Placement Tutor and will form part of the decision process regarding your ability to undertake your mobility.
You do not need to complete a Travel Preparation Assessment form if your placement is in the Republic of Ireland.
You should be aware of all entry requirements both on-arrival and on return to the UK as detailed in the FCDO guidance You must complete the mandatory Travel Preparation Assessment form prior to your travel.
If you receive approval for your mobility before travel but FCDO guidance (for your host country) changes before the date you indicated you are traveling, you should contact us for more information.
This will apply to red list countries .
Before you travel you should confirm details with us and your host institution.
Check the travel advice from FCDO and the living in country guide for the host country.
Be mindful that your placement may not continue as originally planned.
If you receive approval for your mobility before travel but FCDO guidance for the host country changes before the date you indicate you are travelling you should not travel.
Please get in touch with us if this should happen.
The University has indicated that no travel should be permitted without prior approval and appropriate FCDO guidance.
Once FCDO guidance permits travel to your host country, we will be in touch with you to let you know whether you are approved to go abroad.
This applies if your host country changes to a red country list .
The University has advised since the start of the pandemic "to continue preparations but to avoid making any financial commitments to cover flights, accommodation, insurances or payments to internship providers."
Should you have made financial commitments, speak to the provider first to seek clarification on cancellations and postponements due to COVID-19, and seek guidance from your host institution for any further help.
The University’s Insurance company, UMAL, have confirmed there will still be cover for Covid-19 related emergency medical expenses but that Covid-19 will be excluded from travel curtailment and disruption claims.
Please read through the travel insurance policy carefully.
When the UK left the European Union this brought new rules and restrictions in the areas of travel and border controls.
Students should read the Brexit Guidance from the FCDO website for the country they intend travelling to for details.
Students will be eligible to apply for funding for work and study placements that run until 31 May 2023 .
The UK will continue to participate fully in the current Erasmus+ programme.
This means that Ulster University's current Erasmus+ programme will continue to receive funding for the full duration of the project.
Graduate employers increasingly seek recruits with multicultural awareness, adaptability and awareness of global business networks.
International work- experience help you to develop these highly transferable skills which are proven to increase employability.
By travelling overseas and experiencing different work environments, people, cultures and organisations, you will not only develop your technical and professional skills but can confidently demonstrate to prospective employers that you are resilient, independent and adaptable, making you a valuable asset to their business.
Even if your degree course does not include a compulsory industry-based work placement, many of our international work placement programmes can be completed during your summer break.
Use Handshake when searching for international work-based learning opportunities such as volunteering, summer internships and 12-month placement opportunities.
Ulster University are working in partnership with HigherEd – an online global career platform for students and graduates seeking international work placement opportunities.
Hundreds of quality global internship and placement opportunities are available and updated every week from employers such as Amazon, Pepsi, Nike, Google, Santander and L’Oreal.
Register on HigherEd and find internships, placements, and graduate positions that are relevant to you from companies around the world.
Start building your global network by signing up to the Alumni Networking Programme and use LinkedIn to monitor vacancies with your employers of choice.
All short-term summer volunteering roles and internships are Edge Accredited activities under Category 5 - Developing a Global Vision.
Visit the Employability section of our website to find out more .
Study abroad allows you to undertake part of your undergraduate degree outside of the UK at one of our exchange partner universities across the globe.
Studying abroad will count towards your degree with your final degree classification or your time abroad will be recognised in your degree title, eg BSc Hons Computing with DIAS (Diploma in International Academic Study).
Learn more about Study Abroad opportunities .

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/employability/advice:
Supporting hundreds of students and graduates every year to plan their career and secure internships, placements and graduate opportunities.
Our team of Graduate Development Coach's offer you the informed, expert, professional advice that will help you progress your employability, be more competitive in your job search and make better decisions for your future career.
Ulster graduates have ongoing access to our services including 1-1 advice and access to our digital resources.
This service is for those students and graduates who require in depth advice that requires a 1-1 meeting that will take around 30 minutes.
Maybe you have a job interview or assessment centre coming up?
Maybe you are unsure of your career direction or maybe you are starting to explore or apply for jobs or placements.
You can book a consultation from the link below and when selecting your preferred day and time you will also be able to choose your preference between in person and online.
You can email graduatefutures@ulster.ac.uk anytime and one of our Graduate Development Coach's will get back to you ASAP.
To get in touch please email: graduatefutures@ulster.ac.uk
You can also contact any of our Graduate Development Coach's directly via email or phone using the contact details below.
Graduate Futures Team
MC004
Employability & Graduate Futures are here to help you enhance your potential and become a thriving Ulster Graduate.
Access Employability & Graduate Futures expertise and experience anytime from anywhere.
Supporting your graduate transition through 1-1 coaching, access to graduate jobs, further study options and alumni connections.
For your next step towards a sustainable future
Find useful career planning tools, tips and information to help you prepare yourself for a career in medicine after you graduate, and make the right decisions for your future employability.
Follow us on Instagram and be in with a chance of winning one of 3 £100 vouchers!
This Semester we are offering 2 new and refreshed programmes, Check out Design Your Career Journey and Graduating...What Next?

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/employability/tools:
Access our range of digital tools that support you in applying for opportunities and becoming more employable.
Search and apply for jobs, expand your network and access key Employability & Careers services including Advice and Events.
Upload your CV and get instant feedback and scoring based on 59 quality checks.
Recruit is the placement management system for students from the Faculty of Computing, Engineering and the Built Environment
Access hundreds of high quality global internship and placement opportunities

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/employability/advice/international-students:
As an international student you can benefit from personalised support from Employability & Graduate Futures including expert 1-1 advice, tailored online resources and networking events.
As an international student it is important that you engage with us early on in your studies to develop your career plan and gain an understanding of the UK job market and recruitment timelines.
International students can benefit from one-to-one support from our Graduate Development Coach's through our coaching & advice consultations.
We can help you with your career plans, job search strategy and anything else career-related.
Our Graduate Development Coach's can also give you feedback on applications for the UK job market.
Please note that we cannot give visa advice.
International Students can access and book appointments via Handshake, all appointments are online for your convenience and with a dedicated Coach.
When booking an advice appointment, you will be able to select the best date and time that suits you.
Once your appointment has been confirmed, you will receive an email notification and joining instructions.
You may be asked to register and create a profile before you can book an appointment.
Our team of Graduate Development Coach's are here to provide you with expert advice and coaching for your career progression
If you want to work in Northern Ireland & the UK during your studies or after graduation, you need to check your visa regulations.
We can't give you immigration advice personalised to your circumstances, but the information below can point you in the right direction.
What we can do is support your ambitions, whether that be finding experience opportunities whilst you study or if you are looking for work in the UK after you graduate.
If you're an international student on a Tier 4 student visa/Student route visa, you can do paid, unpaid or voluntary work up to 20 hours a week during term-time and your vacation restrictions will depend on your course structure.
Please check out: UK Government Student Visa and NI Direct website for the most update information.
At Ulster University, we offer all students the opportunity to undertake part-time work within the University via UUTemps.
If you're an international student looking to work in the UK after graduation, it's important you research the options and check the visa regulations.
The Graduate Route visa was introduced in 2021, this allows International Graduates who attended Northern Ireland and UK Universities to stay in the country for a further two years while they search for a Graduate Job.
Please check out: UK Government Graduate Visa for the most update information.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/employability/jobs-and-placements/uutemps:
UUTemps is your gateway to access paid casual and part time roles on campus.
These roles will be wide and varied and could range from taking calls on one of the university helplines to undertaking a research project.
This is only available to current students of Ulster University and you can view and apply for UUTemps roles on Handshake.
Check out our FAQs section for additional guidance.
By following our UUTemps profile on Handshake, you are ensuring that you get convenient notifications/emails when new campus based part time jobs become available
These roles will be added throughout the year and will vary in role and duration.
You may take up multiple different roles throughout the academic year.
You should not work more than 20 hours per week during term time.
UUTemps is the university's centralised service that provides part-time work opportunities for students across the university.
This initiative has been developed by Employability and Graduate Futures in partnership with People and Culture.
It aims to provide students with flexible recruitment opportunities that can fit around their studies and allow them to develop valuable employability skills.
Roles will be wide and varied and will range from helping out on campus open days, working in IT support roles, to completing a short research project.
Positions are generally on campus but can have a remote element depending on the role.
Most roles are paid at £13.10 per hour
No, you will apply and the hiring manager/team will run a recruitment process to individual the successful candidate/s
UUTemps roles will not be greater than 20 hours per week.
There is no limit to the number of jobs, only the number of total hours you can work per week.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/employability/advice/graduate-transition:
Graduate Exit Survey 2025
Calling the Class of 2025!
If you are graduating this summer you have the chance of winning 1 of 3 pairs of Airpods and UU branded goodies and all you have to do is complete our Graduate Exit Survey.
This survey helps the university understand your experience of final year and the transition from university and how we can enhance our services and support for you and future graduates.
Our 1-1 Expert Coaching service is guaranteed to help you de-clutter your mind by helping you take control of your career journey.
Our Graduate Futures team, based on each campus, are ready and motivated to help you take forward steps in your graduate job search.
Whether you have no idea or a clear idea about your next move, we can help you discuss and plan what comes next.
You can book a consultation from the link below and when selecting your preferred day and time you will also be able to choose your preference between in-person and online.
You can email graduatefutures@ulster.ac.uk anytime and one of our Graduate Development Coaches will get back to you ASAP.
As an Ulster graduate you will enjoy full and ongoing access to our 1-1 coaching service and digital tools.
Check out this useful guide on maintaining access to Handshake after you graduate.
One of the first things you can do is go to your account settings and update your preferred email address to your personal email address.
After graduation you become a lifelong member of our global alumni community and can access benefits including:
In September 2026 you will be surveyed by the Higher Education Statistics Agency to complete the Graduate Outcomes Survey.
This will help HESA and Ulster learn more about your University experience, ensuring that we are developing the student experience based on your feedback.
Whether you want to deepen your knowledge, gain professional accreditations, become a specialist in your field, or switch career paths, a postgraduate degree can open up new opportunities.
With over 300 postgraduate courses available including part-time, online and short courses we can help you achieve your career ambitions.
Plus, as an Ulster University graduate, you could get a 10% discount on your fees.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/employability/stories:
From job hunts to start-ups and everything in between, our student-led Employability Diaries share real stories from diverse students across various subjects and backgrounds.
UU Illustration Graduate Ezra Pinkerton tells us how a year out helped him realise his career direction.
Biomedical Sciences graduate, Lauren McKeary, explores how the Edge Award enhanced her university experience.
UU Journalism Graduate, Caoimhe Clements, explores the journey of using her Masters degree to help others feel heard.
Mature student, Pearse McCusker, shares his successful experience of starting university for the second time.
Now with his dream career.
Five Cinematic Arts students share their experience of running a media production company together.
Communications, Advertising and Marketing student Rhianna Heffron explores how her placement experiences have shaped her career direction.
UU Journalism Graduate Sarah O'Grady explores how writing gave her life direction.
UU Music Graduate Ryan Johnston explains his journey to entrepreneurship through Enterprise Placement Year.
Hear How Students Are Launching Their Own Ventures

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/employability/events:
Events and activities that help you improve your skills, build career confidence and connect with employers

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/employability/edge/how-to-complete-edge:
Register for EDGE and then select and start your first activity.
Currently there are 2 levels to the Ulster EDGE Award for undergraduate students.
The Ulster EDGE Award and Ulster EDGE Excel Award.
We are also currently piloting an Ulster EDGE Award for Postgraduate students
To complete the Ulster EDGE Award students will need to complete
3 activities
To complete the Ulster EDGE Excel Award students will need to complete
5 activities
To complete the Ulster EDGE Award (Postgraduate) students will need to complete
2 activities (part of pilot award continuing for 24/25)
The following EDGE Award activities are open to everyone and can be the ideal start to your EDGE journey:
Design Your Career Journey This activity is perfect for any student struggling with career direction.
You can be from any subject or year group and this activity will help you explore and research specific career opportunities and develop a mind map and career plan, guided by our expert team.
Career Confident This self directed activity can be done in your own time and will help you prepare for your job/placement search through developing your Handshake Profile, enhancing your CV and improving your Job Interview preparation
Work Experience Skills Builder Get EDGE Award accreditation for your part time work by reflecting on the skills you are developing and by doing so, enhance your confidence for applying for new placement and graduate job opportunities.
Register for the EDGE Award via the link below:
Register for EDGE
You can then start to complete activities and we will also start to communicate with you to help you start your EDGE Award Journey.
Once you register online you can start to view suitable activities.
If there are specific EDGE Award activities associated with your subject area you'll see them in the activities section .
Our Graduate Development Coach team will be on hand to support you with your EDGE Journey so please get in touch with any questions.
Once you have completed an activity check that it has been recorded.
Successful activities will appear on your EDGE online record shortly after completion.
You can check by logging in at Edge .
If you have a query then please get in touch with the co-ordinator for your activity or Employability & Gradaute Futures .
In Semester 2 of your final year, once you have completed your EDGE activities, you will complete short final application.
Check out our Graduates 2025 for more information and final application links and deadlines.
This final application requires you to provide information on your completed and recorded EDGE activities, allowing us to verify and confirm that you have completed your EDGE Award or EDGE Excel Award.
In early Semester 2 you will have access to a specific EDGE Award support area in Blackboard Learn that will include this application link alongside lots of useful information on activities you can complete to finish your EDGE Award or EDGE Excel Award.
If you have any questions about this or any aspect of EDGE, please just get in touch by emailing graduatefutures@ulster.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/employability/advice/top-tips/self-awareness-and-confidence:
Improving your self awareness will lay the foundation for improved confidence, continuous improvement and clearer career direction.
Self Awareness can be described as how well you know and understand yourself.
Your level and depth of self awareness is like your foundation.
If it's not where it should be it is hard to get momentum in your career.
If you continually work on and maintain your self awareness then you are always moving forward with your development and career.
Your self awareness impacts on everything you do in your career.
Your confidence, self development and career decision making are all built on the foundations laid by your self awareness.
If you feel you need help to start improving your self awareness and confidence we can work with you through our advice service.
As you start to develop your self awareness, you can make clearer and more assertive career decisions, you can start to develop new skills and you can improve your self confidence.
Understanding your skills and strengths is key to your career development.
Being able to categorise your abilities can help you to more clearly define your working role and your career direction, to celebrate what you are good at, accept the things you are not and appreciate others for their strengths in your areas of weakness.
The purpose of this simple assessment is to allow you to easily assess your own strengths from a broad selection of skills using three dimensions: enjoyment, proficiency and importance (to your current or potential role) and to group them into five categories: prime strengths, untapped strengths, necessary skills, underdeveloped skills and weaknesses:
Strengths Assessment
You can also access a range of other career assessments that will support the development of your self awareness.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/employability/advice/top-tips/opportunity-search:
The Handshake Platform is your key resource for searching for internships, placements, graduate jobs and even on campus part time opportunities.
Handshake not only helps you search and apply for opportunities, it enhances your connections and helps you expand your network.
In a competitive labour market your connections, networks and visibility become even more important so the timing could not be better.
As well as graduate jobs there are several forms of work experience ranging from part-time or summer work, shadowing, volunteering, insight weeks or employer open days, freelancing, industrial placements and internships.
In this section you'll find our top tips and resources on finding different types of work experience as well as graduate opportunities.
One of the questions you might ask about your Graduate Job Search is “Where do I start”?
The answer to that is Handshake
Managed by Employability & Graduate Futures s at Ulster, Handshake is your platform for connecting with opportunities, employers and other students and graduates.
Watch this short guide on using Handshake and get started up updating your profile:
View graduate jobs
The benefits of completing an internship are boundless – they provide you with invaluable insights into organisations and help you gain employability skills and make your CV and job applications stand out to employers.
No matter what year you are in it’s never too early or late to start thinking about applying for an internship.
Check out current opportunities via the link below:
Internships & Insights
UUTemps promotes on campus, paid part time jobs for students.
Roles are paid at £12.40 per hour and are a convenient way to earn while you learn.
Roles range from Campus Ambassadors to Library Assistants.
Search UUTemps on Handshake now to view opportunities.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/employability/advice/top-tips/cvs-and-job-applications2:
As job opportunities become more limited and competitive, the way you demonstrate your skills and qualities becomes even more important.
To ensure that you are in a position to compete and be shortlisted by employers, you need to ensure that your CV and Job Applications are as good as they can possibly be.
Our Graduate Futures team and Digital tools and content will help you optimise your approach to developing your CV and job applications.
Access CV360 now and get CV feedback in seconds
Student Talent Team

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/employability/advice/top-tips/job-interviews:
Improve your interview preparation and performance through expert advice on body language, confidence, preparation and performance.
Job Interviews, whether conducted in person or online, are a critical part of your journey to securing the job and career you want.
Whether you are a confident interviewee or whether you have never had a interview, our team will provide you with the advice and support that will help you progress and improve your preparation, confidence and interview performance.
Start with listening to the advice below and by reflecting on your previous interviews.
Identify areas you think you struggle with in the job interview process in advance of getting the help you need.
The following activities and learning resources will support you in improving your approach to Job Interviews:
Interview360

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/employability/advice/top-tips/digital-presence:
Your professional digital presence presents you with an important opportunity as you make the transition from University to the world of work during a challenging time.
During more challenging times for the graduate labour market, your ability to connect and be visible to relevant connections, including employers, can help you gain a competitive advantage.
Check out our recorded webinar below on Getting Started with LinkedIn and consider booking a 1-1 consultation to access expert advice on developing your digital presence.
Feel free to contact the Graduate Development Coach from your campus.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/goglobal/study:
Find out more on how to study abroad for a Semester or Placement year as part of your Undergraduate Degree.
Including the International Student Exchange Programme ISEP, Study USA Programme or options via one of our Partner Institutions.
Attend an information session hosted by the Go Global Team to learn more about our exciting opportunities and how they could shape your future.
Study abroad allows you to undertake part of your Undergraduate degree outside of the UK at one of our Partner Institutions, through the International Student Exchange Programme (ISEP) or on the Study USA programme.
There are options for you to undertake a Semester or Placement year via our Partner Institutions and the ISEP programme.
We advise you seek approval from your Academic advisor as to which options are applicable to your degree.
If you undertake a placement year your time abroad will be recognised in your degree title and you will receive the Diploma in International Academic Study (DIAS) as an additional attainment.
Destinations for you to study abroad include Europe, USA, Asia and beyond!
If a semester or placement year is not an option for you, there are many other short term and volunteering  options you could consider!
Explore opportunities to study in the USA, Africa, Asia, Latin America and the Middle East!
Experience new cultures and teaching at a University anywhere in the world at one of  our partner institutions!
Options for a Semester or your placement year.
Apply for this full-year programme in the USA, funded by the British Council!
Discover a range of short-term opportunities available to students!
Study, Work or Volunteer abroad with funding from the Turing Scheme!
Irish Government funding for student mobility
There’s lots to think about before, during and after your return.
Read this section thoroughly for advice on to how...
Explore opportunities to study abroad in the USA, Africa, Asia, Latin America and the Middle East for a Semester or your Placement year!
Find out more about the 2026/27 Study USA Programme!
funded by the Department of the Economy in partnership with the British Council.
Read this section thoroughly for advice on to how to prepare and what to expect from your experience abroad.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/goglobal/short-term:
Discover a range of short-term study and volunteering opportunities available to Ulster students.
Attend an information session to learn more about our exciting opportunities and how they could shape your future.
Whether you are considering studying abroad for your placement year, volunteering in the summer or a week programme there are options for all!
The Global Opportunities Team have put together a range of fully and partially funded short-term opportunities open to Ulster students.
If you fancy Volunteering in Fiji, Bali or Uganda, exploring Europe, China, India or experience the USA you may wish to consider the following opportunities:
Spend a month in Minnesota this summer and learn about American literature, culture and history with the University of Minnesota,...
Explore US and World Politics Summer 2025!
Discover Chiang Mai, support local social enterprises and embrace a team adventure!
Volunteer in Thailand
Study a language abroad this summer and apply for funding to help with your costs.
Visit Christ University this August to attend a Sustainability themed summer school in the heart of Southern India.
Volunteer in Antigua whilst learning Spanish too.
Volunteer in Fiji and experience the unique culture, customs and way of life of the incredible South Pacific islands.
Gain hands-on experience in beautiful Bali this Summer!
Take part in a volunteering project and discover the wonders of Uganda this summer.
Spend two weeks this summer developing your language skills and experiencing different regions and sights in China.
Join the Sustainable Global Experience and learn all about sustainability in Belgium.
If you like the idea of going "Global" but don't want to or can't commit to a year placement then there are lots of ways you can undertake a Global opportunity.
These can range from one week to three months and could be in the form of a summer school, study opportunity, work placement or volunteering project.
By undertaking a short-term opportunity, you will gain experience of study, work or volunteer in a different cultural, linguistic and/or social environment to that of University study.
You will learn more about yourself as a global citizen in terms of life skills, career choices and your academic development outside the classroom.
To live and study in another country for an extended period is a rare opportunity so grab a short-term mobility programme if you can!
Even with a shorter mobility programme  you can still get credit towards Ulster's EDGE Award.
Contact edge@ulster.ac.uk to find out more.
If you are unsure you want to commit to a year abroad, a short term mobility programme could be what you need to give you the confidence and skills you need to take the leap.
Students who go abroad build new international long-term social, academic and professional networks.
This means that you will always have a network of friends across the globe who you can continue to visit and learn from.
It can also increase your global job prospects further down the line.
Most short-term mobilities are outside of term-time, so are particularly beneficial for students with demanding term-time schedules.
There are programmes available from 1 week, a month or 3 months providing options for all students.
Watch this video on how a short-term mobility experience has an impact on students!
Global Leader Experience, 4 - 7 June 2024
Learn how to become a Global Leader in Johannesburg this Easter!
Make a Difference, Whilst Gaining Unique Skills & Experience.
Develop your ability to cross boundaries and thrive in multiple cultures
Spend your Summer in Costa Rica or South Africa!
Contemporary Southern India – Experiencing and understanding diversity.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/goglobal/languages:
Discover our short language courses available to prepare you for studying abroad
Enhance your global opportunities by becoming proficient in Mandarin, French, Spanish, or German through one of our language courses.
Our programmes are tailored to help you achieve fluency and cultural understanding.
Whether you're looking to advance your career, enrich your education, or simply broaden your horizons, our courses offer the perfect blend of learning and real-world experience.
There can be many benefits when you challenge yourself to learn a new language!
Interested to find out more?
You will find our current language opportunities below.
Unlock the world with Mandarin!
Join our Mandarin classes and discover the language spoken by over a billion people.
Whether you're a beginner or looking to improve your skills.
Expand your career prospects, travel with ease, and connect with Chinese culture.
The programme is made up of six lessons, each 2 hours long, that will run  between October and November.
You will learn about Chinese language, how to introduce yourself, greet people, speak about where you come from, and talk about things like your family.
The taster programme is a great way to get started with a language and make new friends!
Don't miss out -  Join our Mandarin 6 week Mandarin Beginners course and start your journey, with the option to progress to HSK 1
The programme is made up of fifteen lessons, each 2 hours long, that will run between 4 December and 7 May (Christmas and Easter breaks).
You will learn the vocabulary and grammatical constructs to communicate basic ideas in Mandarin Chinese and build a solid foundation for future levels.
This face-to-face course will:
After you finish this course, you will be well prepared to take the HSK 1 test and to potentially take part in a linguistic and cultural programme in China next summer!
Application deadline: Applications now closed for 24/25 academic year
Calling all French language enthusiasts - whether you excelled in school, conquered Duolingo, or self-taught, join our vibrant class to elevate your fluency!
This will be a Beginner's course.
Please note any previous experience on your application.
Apply for the French Beginner's semester 2 course on Coleraine campus
Calling all Spanish language enthusiasts - whether you excelled in school, conquered Duolingo, or self-taught, join our vibrant class to elevate your fluency!
This will be a Beginner's continuation course from the 1st semester.
You don't have to have taken part in the 1st semester course, however some prior knowledge of the language will be required to join.
Please note your previous experience on your application.
Calling all German language enthusiasts - whether you excelled in school, conquered Duolingo, or self-taught, join our vibrant class to elevate your fluency!
Would you like to take your language skills one step further?
There is an exciting opportunity to immerse yourself in the language and learn from the locals, with funding towards a Summer Language Programme in Lyon, Pau, Salamanca or Freiburg.
There are online resources available for you to try learning a language for free such as, Duolingo or Mondly .

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/goglobal/info-sessions:
Join an information session to find out more on how you can Go Global!
Information Sessions
Find out more on your options to Study Abroad for your 2026/27 placement year.
These online information sessions will cover the ISEP , Study USA and Partner Institution route programmes and will be hosted by the Global Opportunities Team.
Register below:
Find out more on the Study USA programme.
These online information sessions will be hosted by the British Council.
Find out more on the Volunteer in Guatemala programme.
These online information sessions will be hosted by the IVHQ.
Find out more on the Experience China programme.
These online information sessions will be hosted by the Confucius Institute.
Find out more on the Sustainability in Brussels p rogramme.
These online information sessions will be hosted by Pagoda Projects.
Find out more on the Volunteer in Fiji programme .
These online information sessions will be hosted by Think Pacific.
Find out more on the Volunteer in Bali programme .
Find out more on the Experience Thailand programme .

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/goglobal/blog:
"A life changing time in one of the most interesting cultures with the most kind people on the planet."
"An experience that I would do again in a heartbeat, the best decision I have made."
"The American Dream is very much alive."
An amazing change to learn and grow in a new environment!
"My mobility experience in Brussels was an inspiring blend of learning about sustainability, exploring European culture, and building lasting friendships with people from around the world"
My experience has given me my most prized memories, friends for life, and confidence within myself that I never would have found doing anything else
A brilliant mix of travel, culture, and learning that challenged me in the right ways and gave me memories I won't forget.
Try everything!
"A short trip with a long-lasting impact - Brussels showed me that sustainability is not just possible, it is already happening"
"Living, learning, and traveling across the U.S.
as a study abroad student taught me that stepping into the unknown isn't just about seeing new places - it's about becoming a version of yourself you hadn't met yet"
"A truly redefining, lifelong memorable moment - one that will continue to shape me as I grow and continue to adventure the World"
"An unforgettable experience filled with memories made alongside amazing people from all around the world.
I would do it all over again if I could."
"One of the most enlightening experiences of my life that allowed me to connect with humanity in a truly meaningful and beautiful way that I will never forget!"

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/enterprise/programmesresources:
A free virtual workshop through Belfast City Council.
These workshops are created for people who:
For more information on how to sign up, visit the Belfast City Council website
A free course that covers finance, marketing, business planning and sales.
Made for anyone aged 18-30 that is looking to start their own business.
Course is delivered over one week, two hours per day (Tuesday - Friday)
Get access to cashflow and business plan templates, along with other free resources
Grants of up to £500 and loans up to £25,000 are also available
Contact: e.donnelly1@ulster.ac.uk
An Enterprise Placement Year (EPY) provides the opportunity to fully develop your entrepreneurial idea and establish a new venture.
Register to apply for an Enterprise Placement Year, suitable for undergraduates
Find a mentor through UU Connects that can help you learn through experience and knowledge to improve your personal and professional development.
This online bootcamp starts June 2024, 2 hours per week.
Learn how to set up and grow your own succesful business, connect with fellow student entrepreneurs and business experts.
Limited places available, closing date: 13 May.
Apply now for your place on the Enterprise Hub Bootcamp.
Get connected with training, resources and people that your business needs to grow.
The Santander X Awards are for University linked start-ups.
Apply from Summer to September

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/enterprise/competitions-and-funding:
Showcasing student business ideas and start-ups.
Discover opportunities to elevate your enterprise.
Delivered through Techstart NI, this grant supports entrepreneurs throughout Northern Ireland.
Compete to win a proof of concept grant worth up to £10,000.
Learn more and apply for a grant
Turn your smart idea into a great business idea.
Delivered through Enterprise Ireland, the Student Entrepreneur awards provide an opportunity to receive business advice with a chance to win cash prizes totalling €35,000.
Apply before 15 March 2024
Santander Universities and Engineers in business have made equity free seed funding available to encourage entrepreneurial activity at Ulster University.
Enterprise Hub Bursaries of £1,500 are now available to help student entrepreneurs to develop a business idea, or support a new startup business.
(Less than two years old)
Available only to Undergraduate and Taught Postgraduate Ulster University students, studying in person at one of the NI campuses.
The Bursaries are limited and awarded on merit, at the discretion of the Ulster University selection panel during March 2025.
(The selection panel's decision is final and there is no right of appeal, feedback on applications is available on request.
Bursary funding must only be used for early-stage business startup related expenditure.)
Contact Emma Donnelly for an application form: e.donnelly1@ulster.ac.uk
Applications must be submitted to the Enterprise Hub to Emma Donnelly (e.donnelly1@ulster.ac.uk) before 5pm 7 March 2025.
Applicants may also consider registering on the SantanderX global entrepreneur platform
(Full terms and conditions are detailed within the application form)
INVENT is a competition that celebrates exciting innovators and entrepreneurs.
Discover mentorship, support to fuel your idea, and the opportunity to win a share of the £50,000 prize fund.
Find out more and apply for INVENT 2025
Discover support for female business founders.
Available through InvestNI, win financial support of up to £15,000 in salary subvention.
If you have graduated in the last six months and have taken steps towards starting your own business, this programme may be for you.
Find out more information on how to apply
INVENT is an annual competition that celebrates our most exciting innovators and entrepreneurs, giving them an international platform and support to make the greatest impact.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/enterprise/partnerships:
Collaborating across faculties, departments and external organisations to maximise entrepreneurial support for students and recent graduates.
Delivered through Ulster University Commercial Law Clinic, free legal advice is available for student start-ups and entrepreneurs.
Get advice on :
Visit the Law Clinic at the Belfast Campus: BC-07-103 Online appointments also available.
Make your appointment via email: lawclinic@ulster.ac.uk
Join Awakenhub, a female entrepreneurship network that supports Ulster University female entrepreneurs to increase entrepreneurial capacity, confidence, connectivity and investor readiness.
Visit the AwakenHub website for more information
Contact e.donnelly1@ulster.ac.uk for any enquiries.
Available from Kainos
A variety of competitions and programmes are available through Catalyst.
Visit the Catalyst website to discover what programmes are available
In residence at the Enterprise Hub.
The Martech Lab helps students with strategic and applied digital marketing activities
Visit Martech Lab for more information

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/enterprise/resources:
Get the skills and knowledge you need to start your own business.
Discover local enterprise agencies across 66 locations in Northern Ireland.
A range of support for your entrepreneurial journey is available, including access to work-spaces.
Go Succeed is the new go-to source for expert business advice led by Northern Ireland's eleven local councils.
Whether you're a budding entrepreneur just starting out; are looking to grow your business; or are planning to scale up; our team of industry experts will provide tailored support and guidance to help you achieve your business goals.
Visit the Go Succeed website for more details
Delivered through Raise Ventures, get access to events happening across Northern Ireland for founders and entrepreneurs to connect, get support and access funding.
Raise Ventures also provide support for grant applications, connect entrepreneurs with angel investors and run an emerging entrepreneur summer programme.
Discover the available resources on the Raise Ventures website
Network for women in the workplace across Northern Ireland.
Access events, networking and training on their website.
View ebooks from Seedlegals, created for university students interested in creating their own startup or spinout company.
If you are an existing or aspiring social entrepreneur, Work West Enterprise Agency can offer support to your business.
Based in West Belfast, Work West Enterprise Agency can help with finding work-spaces, office accommodation, mentoring and training.
Visit the Work West website for access to support
Access support from your local council with NI Business Info.
Get started with a variety of helpful checklists, whatever stage your business is at.
Find testimonies from local businesses, contact an advisor, and discover business resources and programmes.
Visit the website to discover local resources including: Go For IT, Social Enterprise and Business Growth
Available at the Ormeau Baths through Barclays Eagle Lab.
Networking opportunities, events, start up connections & work-spaces are available at the Ormeau Baths, Belfast.
Enterprise Nation is a community of small businesses and business advisors, giving you the right support to start and grow your business.
Get access to the brightest minds in business, e-learning, in person and online events as well as financial support.
Become a part of the Enterprise Nation
Discover Invest NI led events  that are focused on innovation and business growth.
View upcoming events
Hazaar is a student marketplace for preloved and handmade clothing /articles/creations.
Free stands are available to sell your items at Ulster University.
Find out more through the Hazaar website
Listen to inspiring entrepreneurial stories and tips for business success from The Small Business Sessions Podcast.
Learn practical tips and tricks for getting a business venture off the ground.
How to Start a Business while Studying
How to Start a Side Hustle

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/staff/e-donnelly1:
Emma                                            Donnelly
Student and Graduate Enterprise Officer

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/research/community:
All the support and guidance you need in one place.
An open, diverse, supportive and sustainable research culture, fostering cooperation and collaboration.
Internal Resources for Ulster University Researchers and staff.
Find out about CPD opportunities for research staff
Recognising the outstanding contribution of our Ulster researchers who are making a difference everyday.
We are committed to the principles of fair, responsible and open use of metrics in the assessment of research activity and performance.
With the help of service users, patients and citizens we are conducting research that makes a tangible difference to our world.
We are committed to ensuring our research is conducted and communicated as openly as possible as early as possible, and to strengthen openness in research engagement with public and community audiences.
Resources to help you navigate the key principles and considerations for developing impact from your research.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/research/research-insights/home:
Your source for the latest Ulster University research news.
We are a research-intensive university, creating research that impacts society and the economy, focused on developing inquiring minds and building sustainable futures for all.
Ulster University partners with Derg Valley Care and Strabane Health Improvement Project for a £80,000 Ideas Fund-backed study on the impact of social prescribing through gardening and community activities.
Transforming brain cancer treatment with localised drug delivery.
Caitlín presented her research on improving early glaucoma detection in people with myopia.
Held on 5 and 6 June in Derry~Londonderry, the Festival celebrated PhD research success
Developing next-generation therapies to target inflammation at its source.
From cutting-edge biosensors to real-world healthcare solutions, Jim McLaughlin’s work is redefining what's possible in digital health.
Explore how WayMaker Child Therapy partnered with Ulster University through an Innovation Voucher to create a unique therapeutic teddy bear—powering innovation through collaboration to support children's mental health through play.
Discover how Heron Bros Ltd and Ulster University powered innovation through collaboration via a Management Knowledge Transfer Partnership, driving operational excellence, increased profitability, and sustainable growth.
Ulster University launches a cutting-edge immersive learning suite at its Derry~Londonderry campus, enhancing education through mixed reality technology and fostering innovation, community collaboration, and future-ready skills.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/research/strategy:
We believe in equality in research, we celebrate diversity and we foster inclusion.
We are advancing our national and international reputation for research excellence while simultaneously playing a leading role in the enrichment of the social, economic, and cultural life of Northern Ireland.
We are a university of, and for, the world.
Available for staff in support of the communication of the strategy.
For external stakeholders please contact researchmarketing@ulster.ac.uk .
Ulster University is your strategic partner for innovation.
Our dedicated team of world-class researchers consistently deliver groundbreaking solutions to drive business growth.
Whether you're diving into new product development, tackling intricate research challenges, resolving technical issues, or optimising your operations, our expertise and insights pave the way for success.
Research Degree Opportunities at Ulster University

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/research/research-integrity:
Ulster University requires the highest standards of professionalism in research conducted by all staff and students in all disciplines.
The University encourages and supports research integrity through a framework of policies, procedures and guidance, summarised and illustrated in the Code of Practice for Professional Integrity in the Conduct of Research which is updated regularly to reflect changing sector-wide requirements.
For further information on research integrity please contact the Head of Research Governance .
Read the University’s current annual statement on activities in support of research integrity.
Read our activity statement for 2022-23.
Read our activity statement for 2021-22.
Read our activity statement year end 2021
Read our Research Integrity Activity Statement Year ended 31 December 2020.
This statement has been prepared as a summary of activities carried out by the Research Governance section in support of good research conduct and research integrity during the period 1 January to 31 December 2019.
Research Integrity Activity Statement Year ended 31 December 2018.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/research/news:
The latest Research and Impact news.
Your search for " [tag:"Research and Impact" tag:"ri"] " did not return any results.
Improve your search results by:

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/research/collaboration-and-innovation/work/consultancy:
As Northern Ireland’s civic university we use consultancy as a practical way to put our knowledge and expertise to work for the benefit of business and the wider community and have provided innovative business solutions to over 1500 clients locally and internationally in the past 5 years, generating £7 million in consultancy income.
Many businesses choose to work with Ulster University through a direct paid-for consultancy option and our business development team can provide quotes and guidance on this service.
Alternatively, there are a range of funding opportunities available to support innovation and R&D activities in collaboration with Ulster University.
To discuss how we could help your business innovate, develop and grow, please contact Kerry Patterson.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/research/collaboration-and-innovation/work/licensing-technology:
We offer a selection of new idea/technology patents to license and take to market.
A selection of these can be found below, however we develop new ideas on a continual basis so please do get in touch if this is something you may be interested in.
Companies of all sizes as well as individual entrepreneurs can access an extensive portfolio of technologies and early stage ideas / concepts that are available for licencing or in some cases further collaborative development.
These technologies are at various stages of our stage gate development process and therefore we have created several licencing options ranging from Easy Access (free of charge) IP licences to full royalty bearing commercial licence arrangements.
We also offer exclusive and non-exclusive evaluation licences, and these allow for a suitable period of time to explore further the commercial potential of a particular technology.
You will have an option to negotiate commercial licence terms or simply let the evaluation licence expire and allow the technology to re-enter our portfolio for others to explore.
Sisaf Partnership

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/research/collaboration-and-innovation/work/spin-in:
The University continues to commercialise its research through spin-out companies to create an entrepreneurial environment in the University that encourages and rewards the generation of new inventions and knowledge, and to facilitate the transfer of new commercially and socially important inventions and knowledge to society.
Businesses and individuals can collaborate with us to develop research with commercial potential or invest in our spin-out companies.
Companies can spin-in to the university and access our inventions, research, technologies and facilities to develop a commercial opportunity through a collaborative approach in return for an equity stake.
The key criteria for assessment of the spin-in opportunity is alignment with the key research objectives of the university and an opportunity for collaborative research and integration of the university’s expertise and resources.
Ulster University and Avellino Labs partnership provides diagnosis and unique therapy for genetic eye disease via gene editing.
We have 19 active spin-out companies, with a collective turnover in excess of £50 million, employing over 700 staff.
Our companies include:
Axial 3D Ltd specialises in 3D printing technology to advance both standards and efficiency of surgical intervention.
The company creates precise 3D models generated from Patient CT and MRI data to aid diagnosis and enhance pre-operative planning.
Telephone: +44 (0)28 9018 3590 Email: info@axial3D.co.uk
Axis Composites Ltd specialises in composite technology, particularly 3D woven carbon fibre preforms, for the production of technically advanced structural composite components.
Manufacturing solutions and development programmes are undertaken with a range of industries including aerospace, automotive, ballistic, construction, mass transport, medical, marine, renewable energy and sports.
Telephone: +44 (0)28 9036 6670 Email: info@axis-composites.com
Datactics' software manages big data and helps its capital markets, healthcare, government and supply-chain customers get their data in order.
The company develops software platforms that profile, cleanse and reformat data for intelligent analytics for industry, banking and finance, government and healthcare sectors.
Telephone: +44 (0)28 9023 3900 Email: info@datactics.com
View the Datactics website
Get Invited provides a web service for online ticket sales and event management.
Telephone: +44 (0)28 9082 3645 Email: hello@getinvited.to
View the Get Invited website
Inlifesize Ltd specialises in creating characters for virtual reality, mixed reality, film, television and games.
Telephone: +44 (0)28 9536 7259
Intelesens is an internationally recognised, leading innovator in targeted non-invasive vital signs monitoring.
Company develops intelligent, wearable, non-invasive, wireless vital signs monitoring technology for responsive patient care, primarily for use in remote patient monitoring and personal telehealth applications.
Telephone: +44(0)28 9073 6801 Email: info@intelesens.com
View the Intelesens website
Jenarron is developing a novel hydrogel platform for drug delivery that can be used to deliver drug substances to open wounds.
Telephone: +44 (0)28 7012 3285
Performa Sports Ltd has developed a real-time analysis iPad app and integrated Cloud analysis platform that helps coaches and players assess and improve individual and team performance in sports.
Telephone: +44 (0)84 3532 8982 Email: info@performasports.com
View the Performa Sports website
SiSaf Ltd specialises in design and formulation of solid nanoparticles and their application in topical, sublingual and other dermal forms of drug delivery.
Telephone: +44(0)28 9099 8944 Email: saffie@sisaf.co.uk sisaf.co.uk
Solaform Ltd is a spin-out from Ulster's Centre for Sustainable Technologies.
Its first product, SolaCatcher, is a new revolutionary, cost effective, solar water heating system, designed specifically for pre-heating domestic water.
The patented system is easily installed and has the potential to improve on the cost-effectiveness of traditional forms of solar water heating already in use.
Telephone: +44(0)28 9036 8564 Email: m.smyth1@ulster.ac.uk
View the Solaform website
Surf-Spec Ltd provides innovations in surface engineering, development and refinement of biological processes, novel diagnostic platforms and packaging solutions that ensure product integrity.
The company's surface spectrum technology reduces risk associated with the development of highly innovative products where surfaces and interfaces play a key role.
Telephone: +44(0)28 9036 8663
Tactility Factory blends the technologies and cultures of textiles and concrete to create unique, tactile, infused concrete, interior design products.
Telephone: +44 (0)20 3751 3456 Email: t.belford@ulster.ac.uk
Vifkon was set up in 2013 as a spin out from Ulster University to commercialise fire and blast protection systems (FBPS) based on VifkoBlast a novel patented composite lightweight concrete material.
VifkoBlast can be used to create inexpensive low density structures giving outstanding fire and blast protection.
The company's business strategy is to design and develop and modular blast and fire proof structures for use where low weight is critical.
Research and development programme includes joint work with the university on improving the VifkoBlast materials system and confirming its long term stability.
Telephone: +44 (0)28 9036 8302 Email: info@vifkon.com
Ulster University supports the recommendations of good practice identified in the Independent Review of University Spin-out companies.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/research/collaboration-and-innovation/work/phd-research:
Many PhD research projects are carried out part-time, allowing the individual to continue working for your business during the course of the project.
The beauty of these projects is that an employee (the individual PhD researcher) can learn valuable skills about a specific business issue that can benefit your organisation, as well as building on core skills such as:

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/ktp:
Innovate in your business with our world-class expertise.
The Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) scheme is a leading government knowledge transfer scheme to help businesses innovate and grow.
They do this by providing structure and generous funding to help businesses undertake open innovation and scale up through collaboration with world-leading experts from a knowledge base such as Ulster University.
For 45 years, Ulster University has established an excellent track record in helping Northern Ireland businesses grow and flourish through exciting KTP collaborations that have delivered strategic, transformational step changes in productivity, market share and operating process.
For over 40 years, Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs) have been helping companies big and small innovate for growth.
They do this by connecting organisations that have an innovative idea with the expertise to help deliver it.
Right now around 800 organisations, 100 university departments, and over 800 graduates are involved in KTPs – collaborative, three-way partnerships that create positive impact and drive innovation.
Each KTP is project managed by a KTP Associate – a talented graduate or postgraduate.
See current vacancies
The KTP programme is now complemented by the new Management KTP (mKTP), designed to introduce transformational change through expanded management capability.
Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs) link forward thinking organisations with the UK's world class academic teams to deliver innovation projects led by inspired graduates
Read our KTP case studies.
If you would like to discuss Knowledge Transfer Partnerships or Management Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (MKTP) contact Amanda Fullerton.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/research/topic/built-environment:
Our Built Environment Research Institute conducts internationally excellent and world-leading research across five research centres reflecting diversity across the discipline area.
Addressing core issues in relation to renewable energy and energy efficiency in buildings.
CST
The Architectural Research Group (ARG) utilises highly innovative methods to deliver excellence in teaching, research and best practice development....
Researching how fires develop, how structures respond to fires and how people react.
FireSERT
Carrying out fundamental and industry driven research in the area of safety science and engineering, primarily hydrogen and fuel cell...
HySAFER
Researching real estate markets, housing, planning, regeneration and sustainability in urban environments.
RPP
Seeking to stimulate the research environment across the construction and civil engineering disciplines.
SABER
100% of our impact case studies have been judged as having outstanding or very considerable impacts in terms of their reach and significance.
An outstanding 91% of our research has been judged as world-leading or internationally excellent .
Our research is concerned with delivery that enhances the quality of the built environment and addresses the changing needs of...
We would be pleased to discuss any aspect of our research work in the Built Environment and respond to any...
Check out our annual report to find out what we have been achieving in the past year.
Look at the impact our research has had on society, addressing major challenges.
Funded and Self-funded PhD Opportunities within Architecture, Built Environment and Planning Research.
View research publications for Architecture, Built Environment and Planning.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/research/topic/art-and-design:
Art and Design research at Ulster University is in the premier league of subject research in the UK.
An outstanding 83% of our research has been judged as world-leading or internationally excellent .
This is the second highest within the University for overall research performance.
Ulster University’s Creative Industries Institute is an exciting new initiative that brings together our advanced research and teaching expertise in...
We work under one unit to encourage interdisciplinarity collaboration identifying with specific core themes which have evolved with new people...
Check out our varied portfolio of projects we are currently working on.
Our research makes an impact locally and globally, please see the links below for more information.
Research focussed on four interconnected clusters of research that are driven by shared interest in themes that are of value to society, culture, health and to the economy.
We are a diverse group of research staff and a vibrant PhD research community of around 45 researchers.
Be part of the team, have a look at the latest PhD opportunities in Art and Design.
Meet the people behind our Art and Design research.
Get in touch to find out more.
Read our Art and Design research firsthand.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/research/topic/biomedical-sciences:
Study of the biological mechanisms associated with cancer, diabetes, heart disease, blindness and various diseases associated with the ageing population.
The activities of the Biomedical Sciences Research Institute are organised within distinct research centres and groups.
Understanding rare diseases through expert knowledge, research, and first-class facilities, with the goal to improve the quality of life, treatment...
Working to solve chronic diseases by researching the impact of diet and food quality.
At the forefront of diabetes research and therapy.
Applying genomics and epigenomics to understand mechanisms underpinning degenerative disease and advance patient care.
Research with foresight.
Check our PhD opportunities.
Healthcare provision will be super-charged by future proofing industry through data driven innovation and generating a skills pipeline through our growth and regeneration projects.
In addition to conducting our own pioneering research, the Biomedical Sciences Research Institute (BMSRI) provides a diverse range of state-of-the-art equipment, specialist laboratories and infrastructure that can offer clinical & translational services to academic researchers and business.
A unique opportunity for access to imaging modalities rarely found within a single laboratory.
Offering services for pre-clinical studies and physiological measurements in rodents.
We can complete any aspect of tissue culture for external companies.
Focusing on the application of genomics technologies to better understand human disease.
Dedicated to carrying out nutritional intervention trials on human volunteers.
Using mass spectrometry techniques to support your research needs.
Working to reduce the time to market and cost of innovative health technologies, medical devices and therapeutics.
Giving external agencies the opportunity to access the expertise of our vision science staff and facilities.
The Biomedical Sciences Research institute (BMSRI) spans a number of campuses and locations.
It conducts pioneering strategically focused research into health and investigates the underlying causes, diagnosis, treatment and prevention of human diseases.
We specialise in the study of the biological mechanisms associated with cancer, diabetes, heart disease, blindness and the aging population....
A useful and compact guide to the responsibilities of those involved in research.
Meet our team.
Our commitment to the health and welfare of animals in our care.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/research/topic/business-and-management:
Our research focuses on Operations Management, Marketing and Corporate Governance with a strong cross-cutting theme supporting the SME regional economy.
An outstanding 90% of our research has been judged as world-leading or internationally excellent.
Evidence informed research to help improve the competitive position of the Northern Ireland agri-food industry.
Focusing on implications of the quality management philosophy for a range of organisations across the public and private sectors....
Focusing on marketing in the context of entrepreneurial and SME management and consumer behaviour.
We have major strengths in the areas of Operations Management and Marketing.
Providing enterprising families with the knowledge, tools and resources they need to build thriving, sustainable businesses that last for generations....
Operations Management, Marketing and Corporate Governance.
Business and Management conducts internationally excellent and world-leading research.
Meet the people behind our English Language and Literature research.
Find out more about the Business and Management Research Institute.
Funded and Self Funded PhD opportunities in Business and Management.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/research/topic/computer-science:
Ulster University conducts internationally excellent and world-leading research in intelligent systems, assistive technologies, next generation networks, and semantic analytics, within our four highly active research groups and centres.
A state-of-the-art research environment established in 2007 with an extensive array of leading-edge robotic devices.
A cutting edge cognitive analytics research centre bringing together businesses, government and advanced research expertise....
The Centre for Industrial Digitalisation, Robotics and Automation (CIDRA) will catalyse the transformation of Northern Ireland's manufacturing landscape, positioning the...
AIRC’s vision is to achieve excellence and innovation in foundations, technologies and application system toward sustainable artificial intelligence to enable...
Focusing on multi-disciplinary and collaborative research in sensor-based technologies, and applications in behavioural analysis, activity recognition, and assistive technologies for...
Welcome to ARC research at Ulster University
Industry-led, research-focused growth and regeneration projects will drive innovation, translating the University’s data-driven research into real-world benefits.
World-leading research in intelligent systems, assistive technologies, next generation networks, and semantic analytics, within our four highly active research groups and centres.
This Research and Engineering Centre of Excellence involves BT and Ulster University jointly investing in a research programme....
Join the team, find out about PhD opportunities within Computer Science and Informatics Research.
View the latest Computer Science and Informatics annual research reports.
Computer Science and Informatics Research membership is made up from academic staff, research staff and PhD students.
Get in touch to find out more about research on Computer Science and Informatics at Ulster University.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/research/topic/education:
Quality research in education impacting scholarly knowledge, professional practice and society, at local, national, and international levels.
A leading voice in education research focusing on improving educational practice and policy, integrated education and academic selection....
Identifying educational need and securing funding for research which embraces diversity, promotes inclusion and contributes to building a shared future....
Check our funded and self-funded PhD opportunities in Education.
An outstanding 83% of our research has been judged as world-leading or internationally excellent .
Our education research is judged as world leading making a major contribution to the economic, social and cultural development of...
From virtual reality to digital skills and teacher learning frameworks read about our education research projects.
Contact our team to find out more about the education research at Ulster University.
Search PhD opportunities in Education at Ulster University.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/research/topic/engineering:
Focusing on the development of nanotechnology, clean technology, tissue engineering, composites, metal forming and connected health technologies.
Engineering Research @Ulster is based on a legacy of more than 25 years of activity in dedicated subject areas ranging...
Join our team, discover PhD opportunities within Engineering Research.
Meet the staff, students and visitors behind our engineering research.
Get in touch if you want to find out more about our engineering research.
Our research is published in books, journal articles and reports, read them here.
We have an excellent research profile and strong international collaborations.
Our research focuses on the development of nanotechnology, clean technology, tissue engineering, composites, metal forming and connected health technologies.
One of the most advanced and innovative Nanotechnology / Bio Engineering Centres in Europe today.
This overarching group builds on core competencies through mainly the School of Engineering but also in computing, built environment and...
A cutting-edge £6 million research project into low-cost technologies for safe drinking water in developing regions.
A collaborative research project focusing on cardiovascular medicine.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/research/topic/english:
A vibrant group of internationally recognised researchers, we are committed to exploring the meaning and significance of literatures in English from the Renaissance to the present day.
The activities within Research Centres & Groups are organised within distinct research institutes and centres.
Established in 2006, CHOMI seeks to promote the study of social and cultural history of medicine in Ireland.
The centre for Ulster-Scots research in Irish and Scottish studies focusing on promoting the experience of the Ulster Scots as...
The first research centre in the world to concentrate exclusively on biography as a means of understanding and appreciating the...
Check our funded and self-funded PhD opportunities in English.
A national centre for literary, biographical and creative writing, we nurture and promote the careers of the next generation of...
Staff, students and visitors.
Find out more about our current research projects.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/research/topic/environmental-sciences:
Research in the School of Geography and Environmental Sciences is focused in two research clusters that operate within the Centre for Environmental Spatial Data Analytics (CESDA).
The Environmental Processes, Management and Sustainability cluster conducts fundamental research on the interlinked physical, biological and chemical processes operating in the Earth’s crust and surface to enable a better understanding of the sustainability of environmental systems and their management.
The Heritage, Conflict & Society cluster conducts innovative research on peace and conflict, economic disparity, health, mobility and cultural heritage to develop a deeper understanding of societal issues and work with government agencies and community stakeholders to develop solutions that will benefit society.
Our clusters share common overarching themes and researchers are encouraged to work collaboratively in interdisciplinary teams to address important global research challenges.
Our interdisciplinary connections are supported by CESDA, which is a new strategic research centre that was established to support our interdisciplinary research agenda.
CESDA provides shared geo-spatial expertise and cutting-edge research facilities to encourage and support our interdisciplinary research across the School, University and international research community
Exploring how the world works and how the environment and society impact each other.
Researching heritage and its physical manifestation in cultural, political and maritime landscapes.
Join our team, discover PhD opportunities within Geography and Environmental Sciences research.
International researchers committed to tackling climate change, sustainability, poverty, conflict and health.
Meet the staff and researchers who make up our team
Our facilities utilise state of the art technology for indoor and field research.
What we're currently researching.
Get in touch to find out more about our research or learn more about PhD opportunities.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/research/topic/history:
Researching early modern to modern period history from medical, gender, cultural, social, political, and ideological perspectives.
The activities within History are organised within distinct research institutes and centres.
A research intensive unit exploring Irish, British, and European history from the early modern period to the present day....
Check our funded and self-funded PhD opportunities in History.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/research/topic/law:
We are an international and multidisciplinary team of researchers addressing contemporary legal problems including how law deals with the transition from conflict or oppression (transitional justice), how to use the law to promote social justice and protect human rights, how new technologies are affecting the legal professions.
In Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2021, 82% of our Law research at Ulster has been rated as world-leading and internationally...
Our research has an impact on local and international settings.
Browse our publications archive.
In Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2021, 82% of our Law research at Ulster has been rated as world-leading and internationally excellent , across outputs, impact and environment.
Search our current PhD opportunities.
The Transitional Justice Institute (TJI) has shaped the field of transitional justice since its foundation in 2003 and is housed in a dedicated building, providing a rich research environment for our PhD cohort.
The multiple award-winning Law Clinic, situated in Belfast city centre, is a unique institution whereby postgraduate students on our Access to Justice programme provide advice and representation for clients and supports our research in law and social justice.
Transitional Justice Institute (TJI) is a world-leading law-led multidisciplinary research centre focusing on how societies deal with the transition from...
Ulster University Law Clinic is part of an LLM course at Ulster University benefiting students and clients.
A network open to academics and practitioners  currently engaged in research or practice on the broad theme of human trafficking....
The Centre for Legal Technology at Ulster University is dedicated to exploring the intersection of technology and the legal profession....
Research Projects in the School of Law.
The Social Justice Institute develops world-leading research that advances the role of law to build a more equal society
View full project listings:

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/research/topic/media-research:
Practice-driven research that centres on using contemporary media.
Researching projects or themes involving critical theory, public cultures and policy.
Illuminating questions of cultural representation, capitalism and class; national identity; and forms of political cinema....
Check our funded and self-funded PhD opportunities in Media Studies.
A pioneer in research led teaching in Media Studies from the late 1970s, our research centre continues to lead and...
Meet the staff behind our Media Studies research.
Centre for Media Research resources and policy documents
Postgraduate research opportunities.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/research/topic/modern-languages-linguistics:
Our Modern Languages and Linguistics unit conducts research on Irish & Celtic Studies, Linguistics, and Language and Heritage.
At the forefront of Celtic Studies research internationally and at the heart of the University’s mission since its foundation....
Syntax, semantics, pragmatics, language acquisition, bilingualism, language processing, historical linguistics, discourse analysis, and language policy and planning....
About the Modern Languages and Linguistics Unit
Meet the staff behind our Modern Languages and Linguistics research.
Check our funded and self-funded PhD opportunities in Modern Languages and Linguistics.
The Maritime Memorates Project: Stories of the Sea
This project seeks to investigate two interrelated topics: how languages or dialects vary from each other, and why and how...
CLIL (Content and Language Integrated Learning).
The Language Made Fun programme
Enhancing the NHS Complaints Journey
ENhancing Social Participation across IREland for people with communication Disabilities and differences
A study of the leading Irish language voluntary organisation, Conradh na Gaeilge
Cultural Dynamics in Medieval Ulster and Beyond: A Shared Inheritance
Digitisation and Online Publication of Spoken Dialects.
An interactive digital resource on the importance of the Irish maritime tradition
Details of current PhD students and their research.
Conferences on topics in Modern Languages and Linguistics.
Learned societies and other networks.
Previous and upcoming talks on research in Irish/Celtic Studies and Linguistics
UCoM works to provide a local service to share current research on multilingualism.
Local Councils, Obligations and the Irish Language: A Framework for Compliance.
English language resources for teachers and students.
Teaching resources for post-primary Key Stage 3 pupils

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/research/topic/music-drama-dance-performing-arts-film-and-screen-studies:
A unique multidisciplinary and interdisciplinary environment for research across and between the fields of drama, film, music, heritage and museum studies.
Our research in Music, Drama, Performing Arts, Film and Screen (including Computer Games), and Heritage/Museum Studies is organised within both interdisciplinary and subject-specific research groups, and we collaborate with colleagues across Ulster as part of the Creative Industries Institute (established in 2017).
Current projects include the £72-million Studio Ulster Belfast Region City Deal project, providing Northern Ireland's hub in the URKI (AHRC) CoSTAR Network Lab , and participating in Ulster's £457k+AHRC Impact Accelerator.
Recent projects led by this unit include the £13 million AHRC Creative Cluster, Future Screens NI , and the UKRI Covid Rapid Response project Museums, Crisis and Covid-19 .
Over the last two REF cycles, our Research Impact has been judged to be at the very top of the UK field , with the unit being placed joint first in REF2021 and joint 2nd in REF2014 .
Our research environment is now (as of REF2021) judged to be 100% 3*/4* ('internationally excellent' and 'world-leading), and our overall profile is 41% 4* 'world-leading', leading us to be ranked alongside many prominent research-intensive departments at other universities and in the conservatoire sector.
Our research is centred within the following areas:
A unique multidisciplinary and interdisciplinary environment for research within and between the fields of drama, film, music, heritage and museum...
Meet the staff behind our Music, Drama, Film and Screen, Computer Games, and Heritage/Museums research.
Visiting Professors within Music, Drama, Film and Heritage.
Music at Ulster University has a vibrant community of practitioner-researchers.
Drama researchers at Ulster work as a research-intensive subject team within the field of drama and in interdisciplinary projects with...
Film and Screen/Cinematic Arts at Ulster University is a new and vibrant area of research that combines theory and practice...
The heritage and museum studies subject at Ulster University has been established since 2001 and has maintained a vibrant research...
Our infrastructure includes specialist studios and performance spaces at our Derry ~ Londonderry and Belfast campuses, and we also have...
PhD research can be pursued in the following individual subject areas: Cinematic Arts (film/moving image practice and film and screen...
World-class virtual production facilities will integrate film, animation, VFX, and games to create advanced solutions for TV and film production through our growth and regeneration projects.
Check our funded and self-funded PhD opportunities in Music, Drama, Film and Screen, and Heritage/Museum Studies.
Previous conferences, symposia and festivals of Music, Drama, Film and Screen and Heritage research
Our PhDs are a key, and growing, part of our research community.
Postdoctoral researchers in Music, Drama, Film/Screen and Heritage/Museum Studies
Future Screens NI is a £13 million project within the AHRC/UKRI Creative Clusters programme, delivering expert technical skills, opportunity and...
This UKRI Rapid Response project focuses on how museums can contribute to community resilience and wellbeing in a time of...
Inclusive Creativity aims to level the playing field in performance and composition for disabled musicians by developing new technologies and...
Helping senior cultural decision-makers to understand the importance and potential of big data.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/research/topic/nursing-and-health:
Enhancing the knowledge, expertise and engaged scholarship of nursing, midwifery, public health and allied health professions research.
We conduct internationally excellent and world-leading research across five research centres reflecting diversity across the discipline area.
Our overall research objective is to conduct high quality, strategic and applied research relevant to the health and social wellbeing...
Researching health and wellbeing in the preconceptional, pregnancy, and postpartum period.
Our research focuses upon health technologies and health practices for patients in the areas of clinical sciences, diagnostic radiography, occupational...
The Centre for Health and Rehabilitation Technologies (CHaRT)
We carry out person-centred research with specific population groups and with people who have complex needs resulting from cancer and...
Join our team, discover PhD opportunities within Institute of Nursing Health Research Institute.
Ulster University's Professor Kernohan was appointed Trustee on 12 September 2022.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/personalised-medicine:
The Personalised Medicine Centre aims to develop treatments and clinical tools that take into account a person’s individual genetic and molecular signatures.
Within the School of Medicine, the Personalised Medicine Centre aims to develop treatments and clinical tools that consider a person’s individual genetic and molecular signatures.
By understanding the interplay of disease with the sequence, expression level, and activation states of genes and other molecules within our bodies, we are creating a new generation of treatments and robust diagnostics to inform clinical decision making across a range of chronic and degenerative diseases.
Since its inception in 2013, the centre has secured more than £24m in competitive grant funding and published more than 380 peer-reviewed articles in prestigious top quartile journals (correct as of May 2022).
At the forefront of innovation in personalised and precision medicine, the centre has secured 14 patent applications in novel therapeutic and diagnostic advances.
The Personalised Medicine Centre, based on the Altnagelvin Hospital site in Derry/Londonderry in the C-TRIC building, was established in October 2013 by Professor Tony Bjourson with the award of an £11.5 million grant (European Union Regional Development Fund (ERDF) EU Sustainable Competitiveness Programme for N.
Ireland, InvestNI, the Northern Ireland Public Health Agency (HSC R&D), ILEX & Ulster University).
We have the largest single critical mass of researchers solely focused on personalised medicine in Ireland.
We have some 23 Core staff, 49 Research associates/assistants and PhD researchers, and some 36 NHS Clinicians affiliated with our Research Centre linking General Practitioners (GPs) and NHS Health Trusts (from the Western Health & Social Care Trust at Altnagelvin Hospital).
The centre contributed to Ulster University’s ranking in the top five universities in the UK in research power in the Allied Health Professions, with 95% of our impact in REF2021 judged to be world-leading or internationally excellent.
Across a wide range of world-class research, the centre has developed a global network of partners and collaborative relationships with leading academic institutions and biotechnology, pharmaceutical, data analytics and healthcare sectors.
We deliver cutting-edge multidisciplinary courses at both undergraduate and postgraduate level, which are informed by our industry networks.
Find out more about the Centre's capabilities in novel care pathway solutions: across discovery, development, and implementation.
Personalised medicine (also known as precision or stratified medicine) is an approach that subdivides patients into groups based on their risk of developing specific diseases or their response to particular therapies.
Personalised medicine is recognised as a key global priority for healthcare providers, pharmaceutical and diagnostic industries, and patients.
The ultimate aim of a personalised approach to prescribing medicine is to enable healthcare professionals to provide the 'right treatment, for the right person, at the right time.'
Personalised Medicine relies on using biological markers along with imaging and clinical data to separate patients into specific groups for diagnosing and treating disease in more effective ways or at earlier time points than currently possible.
To realise the potential benefits of personalised medicine, advances in technologies and systems are required to reliably predict disease, select the best treatment, and reduce side effects for each individual patient.
Follow our Twitter and Follow our Facebook channels for updates on our work, course announcements, and research opportunities.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/research/topic/psychology:
Research across three main themes of research in 'Mental health', 'Children, Young People and Schools', 'Health and Ageing'.
Established in 2011, the Centre aims to increase our understanding of mental health through research conducted in Northern Ireland....
World-leading research under the three broad themes of Mental Heath, Children, Young People and Schools and Health and Ageing....
The School of Psychology infrastructure has developed state-of-the-art research laboratories.
The School of Psychology Research Ethics Filter Committee meets on a monthly basis during the academic year.
Read about our current psychology research projects and the impact they are making.
Our research is published in books, journal articles and reports.
Find out more about what Psychology courses are available at Ulster University.
All psychology related PhD opportunities are available from our Research Graduate School page.
Get in touch if you want to find out more about our Psychology research.
Meet the people behind our Psychology research.
School of Psychology staff conduct multidisciplinary research under the themes of: (1) Mental Health; (2) Children, young people and schools;...

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/research/topic/social-work-and-social-policy:
Ulster University's Social Work and Social Policy Research excels in multiple topic areas, ranging methodologically from the highly abstract to empirical studies and doctrinal analysis.
An outstanding 92% of our research has been judged as world-leading or internationally excellent resulting in a top 8 in the UK for 3 and 4 star overall research activity.
The School of Applied Social and Policy Sciences aims to contribute towards peaceful, sustainable and just societies through pioneering, original and transformative research, complimented by innovative communication strategies that increase public awareness and understanding.
Our research focuses on regions and professional areas, looking at the challenges associated with heightened forms of contention, the complex legacies of political violence, different forms of deprivation, marginalisation and persecution, achieving inclusive social and public policy, and innovations in professional practice that advance security, justice, social resilience, and the public good.
At the heart of our research strategy is the School’s applied approach to research.
The questions asked, the methods used, and the outputs generated are frequently co-produced with stakeholders and practitioners, with a special emphasis on marginalised communities adversely impacted by different forms of exclusion and violence.
Our School aims to open up the development of academic knowledge to innovations in theory, knowledge and practice pioneered within community and professional settings – captured through co-designed research projects – introducing these social assets into academic fora in ways that help the social sciences make theoretical and analytical breakthroughs.
This is also critical to the University’s wider aspiration to be Northern Ireland’s civic university and its mission to widen participation.
INCORE (International Conflict Research Institute) addresses the causes and consequences of conflict in Northern Ireland and internationally and promotes conflict...
ARK is Northern Ireland's social policy information hub shared jointly by Ulster University and Queen's University Belfast....
The Centre for Public Administration is an international leader in research that seeks to enhance policy and public administration...
Learn more about the staff members within Social Work and Social Policy Research.
Our researchers discuss their topic expertise and working in Applied Social and Policy Sciences.
Check our funded and self-funded PhD opportunities in Social Work and Social Policy.
We are committed to knowledge exchange and to bridging the gap between policy and practice development.
The Criminology and Criminal Justice Research Centre at Ulster University brings together researchers for the purposes of developing collaborative projects....
As part of the School of Applied Social and Policy Sciences, Politics and International Studies researchers continue to engage in...
Staff within the social work team at Ulster University are engaged in research with practitioners and services users in Northern...
Our work focuses on issues in Ireland, the UK and internationally, bridging the gap between local and global experiences....
This research theme is about promoting a community-based, problem-solving approach.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/research/topic/sport-and-exercise-sciences:
World-leading research that enhances the quality of life and addresses the changing needs of sport and physical activity in society.
Advancing knowledge and understanding of the effects of sport, exercise and physical activity in health and disease.
Research associated with the cultural, political, social, economic and historical impact of sport.
Learn more about our PhD researchers.
Check our funded and self-funded PhD opportunities in Sport.
Delivering research that enhances the quality of life and addresses the changing needs of sport and physical activity in society....
Our research is making a difference to society.
Meet the staff behind our Sport and Exercise Sciences research.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/doctoralcollege/top-10:
Join us at Ulster for your research degree at any of our campuses – Belfast , Coleraine or Derry/Londonderry .
Take advantage of more affordable fees and accommodation, excellent studentship opportunities and outstanding results for researcher satisfaction in the Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES).
Ulster offers attractive studentships.
Apply to our Annual PhD Studentships Competition for studentships that cover all fees, an annual non-taxable maintenance grant of approx.
£19,500 each year, a Research and Training Support Grant of £900 each year and access to paid teaching opportunities.
Sponsored PhDs and self-funded PhDs are also welcome in full-time and part-time modes.
Enjoy all that Northern Ireland has to offer – Belfast and the Causeway Coast were ranked #1 Best in Travel 2018 by Lonely Planet.
From bustling city life at our Belfast and Magee campuses to dramatic coastlines at our Coleraine campus on the famous North Coast, we have it all!
Ulster’s campuses are also a perfect base for exploring the rest of Ireland and only a short ferry trip or an hour’s flight to other parts of the UK.
Did you know that Northern Ireland is the most affordable place to live , work and study in the UK and Ireland?* Belfast consumer prices (including rent) are 72.4% cheaper than London.**
2,200 Ulster accommodation places are available on or near our campuses, all supported by Ulster’s ResLife team, who won the Best Moving In Experience Award 2020 in the National Student Housing Awards.
*Which?, 2018
** Numbeo.com 2021
Our PhD researchers say we’re top notch.
In the Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES 2023) Ulster ranked 4th in the UK for overall PhD researcher satisfaction with an overall satisfaction rate of 86%, and above average scores in every indicator in the survey.
A dynamic research environment with access to world-class experts and facilities, links to business and industry, and the chance to push the boundaries of your research knowledge are waiting for you here.
Take a look at our current opportunities .
Postgraduate researchers receive high quality doctoral training at Ulster.
Our Researcher Development Programme provides face-to-face and online workshops, training, specialist skills sessions and personal development planning activities.
Opportunities for demonstrating and teaching work are also available during postgraduate studies, and we encourage our researchers to participate in Ulster’s annual Festival of PhD Research and in the Vitae Three Minute Thesis® Competition.
Our research is recognised internationally.
We’re in the top 10% of UK universities for research impact in the Research Excellence Framework (REF 2021).
Ulster’s research community is solving some of the biggest challenges our world is facing today.
Support for our postgraduate researchers comes from many sources: from supervisors, Postgraduate Tutors and other Faculty staff, and Ulster’s Student Wellbeing team, plus the Doctoral College is on hand to help too.
Inductions at the beginning of your research studies also help you get the very best start.
We are global!
Ulster’s Global Mobility and Experience team welcomes students from over 100 countries across the globe, offering advice and support services to our international researchers throughout their studies.
Plus, during their studies, all postgraduate researchers can travel abroad for a more international perspective e.g.
for data gathering, placements or conferences.
PhD graduates are 7% more likely than Masters graduates to be in full-time employment according to the Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA)*.
They also have higher earning potential with 87% of PhD graduates earning over £30,000 compared to 43% of Masters graduates.
*Source: Graduate Outcomes survey by HESA.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/doctoralcollege/postgraduate-research/fees-and-funding/fees:
The fees schedule is published on an annual basis by the Finance Department with details of tuition fees for all our programmes, by mode of study.
To find out if you should pay home or overseas fees, please refer to UKCISA guidance .
Applicants for any source of funding and/or admission to a research programme should note that all decisions relating to your application will be made by a central University committee and conveyed formally to you in writing and by post by the Doctoral College.
The University will not be held responsible for any decision on your application provided to you by any staff member other than those in the Doctoral College with formal responsibility for the process.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/doctoralcollege/postgraduate-research/fees-and-funding/uk-eu:
Applicants who have been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom, and in some cases, other European Union member states for the three years immediately preceding their application are eligible to be considered for the following awards.
Funded opportunities will be advertised on our Funding Opportunities page.
DfE scholarships are available for full-time on-campus study, and are open to holders of, or those expected to obtain, first or upper second class honours degrees (or equivalent).
They cover fees at the home rate, an annual Research and Training Support Grant and, for applicants with UK residence only, a maintenance allowance.
(Non-UK residents who hold ordinary EU residence may also apply but, if successful, will receive fees only.)
Applicants should indicate in the appropriate box on their University application form that they wish to apply for a DfE award.
The annual competition for these awards opens around the end of November or early December each year.
Please see the terms and conditions for these awards for more details.
DfE CAST awards are based upon approved projects, including an element of industrial collaboration, which are advertised in the press.
Applicants must be able to demonstrate that their qualifications and experience are closely related to the project descriptions.
These awards are open to holders of, or those anticipating, first or upper second class honours degrees.
They cover the payment of fees at the home rate and an enhanced maintenance award (for UK residents only) plus a contribution from the collaborating organisation.
Online applications must be submitted by the specified date.
Applications will be considered in areas of economic relevance, namely agri-food, life and health sciences, advanced materials (including clean technologies), engineering, ICT, electronics, software engineering, construction (including clean technologies), creative media and financial services.
In considering applications, account will be taken of engineering and technology, mathematical sciences and biological sciences which, as evidenced in the STEM report, are particularly under-represented at doctoral level graduation in Northern Ireland.
Any CAST award opportunities will be advertised on our Funding Opportunities page.
The University offers Vice-Chancellor's Research Scholarships (VCRS) to support University scholarships for full-time on-campus study.
These awards are open to applicants from the UK, European Union and overseas who hold or, expect to obtain, a first or upper second class honours degree (or equivalent).
They cover fees, an annual Research and Training Support Grant and a maintenance allowance.
Applicants should indicate in the appropriate area on their University application form that they wish to apply for a University Scholarship/VCRS award.
Applicants with up to one year’s current or previous registration for PhD at any institution may be considered for an award subject to the applicant providing evidence of good academic progress, formal release from all IP restrictions and ethical approval (if required).
Three-year awards may be allocated to such applicants where they are taking-up a new project at Ulster.
In cases where the applicant is continuing with a project already commenced at Ulster, the duration of the award will be reduced by the full period of any previous registration.
The Health & Social Care (HSC) Research & Development Division Northern Ireland offers awards and fellowships for those working in, or interested in a career with, the health and personal social services.
All opportunities will be advertised in the local media.
Further information is on the HSC R&D web pages .
The Department of Agriculture, Environment and Rural Affairs (DAERA) offers a limited number of postgraduate studentships for full-time students only.
Details are available on the NI Direct website.
The Boehringer Ingelheim Fonds (BIF) awards PhD fellowships of 2 to 3.5 years to outstanding PhD students within the EU and provide a monthly maintenance stipend of 2,000 Euros and support to attend international scientific conferences.
Further information is on the Boehringer Ingelheim Fonds website .
Funds for Women Graduates offers grants to help women graduates with their living expenses whilst registered for study or research within the UK, typically in the final year.
Applicants can find further information on the Funds for Women Graduates website .
The Institution of Mechanical Engineers offers awards to assist engineers who are intending to undertake research.
For exceptional graduate students from an accredited mechanical engineering degree programme who wish to undertake further research in this discipline, the Institution offers a number of postgraduate Research Scholarships for PhD study.
The Royal Geographical Society provides grants to support existing students in data collection and fieldwork.
Applicants can find further information on the Royal Geographical Society's website .

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/doctoralcollege/postgraduate-research/fees-and-funding/international:
International applicants wishing to undertake a research degree at Ulster University may apply for the following awards:
University Studentships/Vice-Chancellor's Research Studentships (VCRS)
From time to time the University makes funding available to support University Studentships.
These awards are open to applicants who hold or, expect to obtain, a first or upper second class honours degree and provide for payment of fees and maintenance allowance.
Applicants should indicate in the appropriate area on their University application form that they wish to apply for a University Studentship/VCRS award.
The competition for these awards will open in late December each year.
Applications are invited from UK, European Union and overseas students.
VCRS Terms and Conditions
Any funding opportunities will be advertised on our Funding Opportunities page as soon as they become available.
The aim of the Newton PhD Programme is to facilitate the capacity-building of individuals, and the building of sustainable, long-lasting links between UK and overseas institutions, through PhD scholarships, placements, and partnerships.
Applicants can find further information on the British Council's website.
The Newton-Bhabha PhD Placement Programme provides scholarships to support short-term PhD placements between UK and Indian institutions.
The awards are provided by the British Council and the Indian Department of Science and Technology.
The Canadian Centennial Scholarship Fund provides awards of £5,000 to Canadian men and women for academic and artistic study in the UK on full-time multi-year postgraduate programmes.
Applicants can find further information on the Canadian Centennial Scholarship Fund's website .
Some international organisations such as UNESCO and WHO operate schemes, usually for developing countries.
Details should be available from the Ministry of Education, or equivalent, in the applicant's own country.
CSC Scholarships are awarded by Chinese Scholarship Council to international students in Chinese universities affiliated with CSC.
Further information can be found on the China Scholarships Council's website .
The Commonwealth Scholarship Commission (CSC) in the UK provides the main UK government scholarship scheme led by international development objectives.
is an international scholarship programme.
In the UK it is responsible for awarding academically bright citizens of developing Commonwealth countries with funding to undertake postgraduate study at UK universities.
Commonwealth Scholarships enable talented and motivated individuals to gain the knowledge and skills required for sustainable development, and are offered to citizens from low and middle income Commonwealth countries.
The CSC offers:
All applications should be made via the nominating agency in your home country.
Applicants are also advised to apply for admission to Ulster using the online application process .
Fulbright Commission Awards are offered to US citizens to be used towards tuition fees and maintenance costs in their first year of a Masters or PhD study in any discipline at any UK university.
Further information can be found at the Fulbright Commission's website .
The Inlaks Shivdasani Foundation scholarships are available for a full-time Masters, M.Phil or a Doctorate programme to Indian citizens who have done their first degree in India.
Further information can be found at the Inlaks Shivdasani Foundation website .
The Norwegian State Educational Loan Fund can offer grants/loans to Norwegian students studying abroad.
Applicants can find further information on the Lanekassen - Norwegian State Educational Loan Fund website .
Marshall Scholarships finance young Americans of high ability to enable them to study for a graduate degree in the United Kingdom.
Further information can be found at the Marshall Scholarships website .
Scholarships are available from the Regeneration Centre of Thailand to fund undergraduate and Graduate science, medical or biology students of Southeast Asian heritage across the world to help in the furthering of their education.
These annual grants help provide funds for candidates looking to acquire knowledge in the field of healthcare, science, biology, mathematics and especially for those who would not have the financial abilities to pursue such such an education.
Further information can be found at the Regeneration Centre of Thailand Scholarships website .
Fellowships are available for exceptional university graduates from Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Indonesia, Mexico, Romania and Venezuela.
The Roberto Rocca Education Programme offers fellowships to help fund studies towards PhD degrees in specific fields of study including Materials Science, Mechanical, and Petroleum Engineering (see Eligibility requirements), at a university of the student's choosing outside his or her home country.
Each year, the Programme awards around 12 to 15 new Fellowships.
Fellows are selected by the Programme's Scientific Committee comprising senior managers of the sponsoring companies.
Fellowships are awarded for a period of two years and may be used for tuition, fees and living expenses.
The award amount will depend on the candidate’s financial need but in general Fellowships do not cover all expenses and candidates are encouraged to seek complementary sources of funding.
At the discretion of the Roberto Rocca Education Program, fellowships may be renewed for up to an additional two years.
Further information can be found at the Roberto Rocca Fellowships website .
Scholarships are available to Canadian citizens already accepted into or in year one or two of a full-time doctoral program.
The doctoral work must relate to at least one of the Foundation’s Four Themes: Human Rights and Dignity, Responsible Citizenship, Canada and the World, People and their Natural Environment.
Further information can be found at the Trudeau Foundation website .

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/doctoralcollege/postgraduate-research/fees-and-funding/financing-your-studies:
Ulster is proud to be able to regularly offer scholarships to applicants from across the globe.
These scholarships generally pay full tuition fees and provide a tax-free maintenance grant of over £20,000 per year.
Our main scholarships period begins in late December and runs to February each year, during which time there are hundreds of projects advertised with dozens of funding opportunities available.
Further information will be on the link above during these times.
The visa process for overseas applicants can be expensive so it is worthwhile taking this into account when you are considering your studies here.
There would be visa application fees and IHS costs for accessing our National Health Service which are both due when you apply for a visa.
If you were awarded a scholarship from us, the scholarship does not cover these costs .
Part of the visa application process requires you to provide evidence that you will be able to support yourself financially throughout your studies, this evidence could take the form of bank statements, Ulster studentship offer letters or sponsor letters from a private funder.
More information on the specific requirements for each can be found in our guidance .
Northern Ireland is among the best value regions in the UK to live with cities here being more affordable than other major student cities in the UK.
But it’s still very important to plan and budget your money so that you do not have any financial difficulties during your studies.
The British Council Education UK has advice on budgeting, including tips on how to budget when you first arrive, how to map a budget, eating on a budget, etc.
Below is an idea of the weekly expenses you might expect:
Off-campus private accommodation in the nearby area will also be available but please budget for paying several months’ rent plus deposit in advance.
We recommend that international researchers, in particular, arrange on-campus accommodation when they initially arrive.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/ref/case-studies:
Explore the Impact Case Studies that demonstrate the meaningful impact that we are making to lives at home and abroad.
Influencing regulatory and clinical guidelines on medication safety in pregnancy
Folic acid: informing evidence-based policy and practice for 
health and food sectors
Changing Policy and Practice in Suicide Prevention
NeuroCONCISE: Consciousness assessment in disorders of consciousness, enablement in spinal injury and growing the UK neurotechnology sector
Healthcare Sensor Systems and Health Technology Solutions to Address Global Challenges
Supporting the inherently safer deployment of hydrogen systems and infrastructure
Changing the approach of water management across Ireland
Food affordability and accessibility - informing the strategic direction of NGOs, public sector bodies and retailers
Social Security in Scotland: defining, operationalising and protecting the Social Security (Scotland) Act principles through participation, scrutiny and oversight
Historical Child Abuse: changed legislation, improved redress, empowered survivors, informed policy-makers and raised public awareness
Education for Peacebuilding: Influencing how UNICEF and other agencies analyse, plan and implement education for peacebuilding in situations of conflict and protracted crisis
Shaping and Advocating Physical Activity Guidelines for Population Health
Driving Societal Transformation through Language Reform in Northern Ireland: Language Rights and Multilingual Speakers
Enriching the Experience of Ulster-Scots Literature through Public Outreach, Broadcasting and Digital Preservation.
Unlocking the Hidden Histories of Witchcraft and Magic in Ireland
Photography, Video, Spaces and the Legacy of Conflict in Northern Ireland.
Inclusive Creativity – driving inclusion in music for disabled artists using creative technologies
Empowering Marginalized Communities in Contemporary Northern Ireland.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/ref/unit-of-assessment:
The areas where we are addressing issues of global relevance with meaningful impact locally, nationally, and globally.
REF 2021 Unit of Assessment for 3.
Allied Health Professions, Dentistry, Nursing and Pharmacy.
REF 2021 Unit of Assessment for 4.
Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience.
REF 2021 Unit of Assessment for 11.
Computer Science and Informatics.
REF 2021 Unit of Assessment for 12.
Engineering.
REF 2021 Unit of Assessment for 13.
Architecture, Built Environment and Planning.
REF 2021 Unit of Assessment for 14.
Geography and Environmental Studies.
REF 2021 Unit of Assessment for 17.
Business and Management Studies.
REF 2021 Unit of Assessment for 18.
Law.
REF 2021 Unit of Assessment for 20.
Social Work and Social Policy.
REF 2021 Unit of Assessment for 23.
Education.
REF 2021 Unit of Assessment for 24.
Sport and Exercise Sciences, Leisure and Tourism.
REF 2021 Unit of Assessment for 26.
Modern Languages and Linguistics.
REF 2021 Unit of Assessment for 27.
English Language and Literature.
REF 2021 Unit of Assessment for 28.
History.
REF 2021 Unit of Assessment for 32.
Art and Design: History, Practice and Theory.
REF 2021 Unit of Assessment for 33.
Music, Drama, Dance, Performing Arts, Film and Screen Studies.
REF 2021 Unit of Assessment for 34.
Communication, Cultural and Media Studies, Library and Information Management.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/ref/explainer:
Our research quality and its impact independently judged by internationally-renowned experts.
The Research Excellence Framework (REF) is a process of expert review to assess the quality, impact, significance and volume of research in UK higher education institutions.
The primary aim of REF is to provide accountability for public investment in research and to inform future investment in research.
Impact was introduced to the REF as a means to assess the effect on, change or benefit from research beyond academia.
Impact case studies describe  how research, conducted during a specific time-frame at a named institution, resulted in a change, had an effect on or benefited culture, the economy, the environment, health, public policy, quality of life or society using qualitative and quantitative evidence.
The case study needs to demonstrate:
Each Unit of Assessment submission including supporting Impact Case Studies are reviewed by an independent panel of UK and International experts.
Each panel member will review the submissions according to a set of assessment criteria and level definitions.
For each submission, three distinct elements are assessed: the quality of outputs (e.g.
publications, performances, and exhibitions), their impact beyond academia, and the environment that supports research.
The Results Table captures the overall quality profile, namely percentage of research activity at each quality level.
The REF panel will look at 3 areas which are weighted and inform the overall score for the University or the Unit of Assessment.
Quality that is world-leading in terms of originality, significance and rigour
Quality that is internationally excellent in terms of originality, significance and rigour but which falls short of the highest standards of excellence.
Quality that is recognised internationally in terms of originality, significance and rigour.
Quality that is recognised nationally in terms of originality, significance and rigour.
Quality that falls below the standard of nationally recognised work.
Or work which does not meet the published definition of research for the purposes of this assessment.

New sentences found on https://ulster.ac.uk/ref2014:
Ulster University's international reputation for research excellence has received world-wide recognition by the Research Excellence Framework 2014.
Ulster University increased its level of 4* world-leading research with 87% of research judged to be either world-leading or internationally excellent.
Ulster University's international reputation for research excellence has received world-wide recognition by the Research Excellence Framework 2014
72% of Ulster University's research activity judged to be world leading or internationally excellent.
Read a selection of our high-quality impact case studies.
Ulster University’s world-leading research recognised for its global impact.
Overall quality profile (percentage of research activity at each quality level).