# Site: https://www.uos.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 479
# --------

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk:
This website uses cookies to improve your experience.
Read our cookie policy
We work together with students to shape their academic journey, creating unique opportunities and building a foundation for their future.
Suffolk is a county of choices, with space to explore and enjoy new experiences.
At the University of Suffolk you will become part of our global network and your journey will be both exciting and challenging.
We are a university shaped by research excellence.
Our academics and students are a community embracing innovation and change, making Suffolk an exciting place to be.
We work closely with the business community to find the right opportunities to support your academic journey and build the foundation for your career.
The University of Suffolk is all about transformation – transforming individuals, our community, our region and beyond.
Whether you have secured your place or are still considering your options, we've got you!
Start your journey here.
Get information on what's happening on campus, including open days, conferences, seminars and more.
If you’re going to live in Suffolk, you’re going to want to know all the different places you can visit and explore during your time here.
We are custom built to provide you with a richer, more rounded education.
DFI is a leading regional digital hub for applied research, development, consultancy and training which has a strong technology focus.
IH&WB brings together a growing body of research in the field from across the University and provides research support to our community and beyond.
ISJ&C is an intellectual and operational vehicle at the University of Suffolk for conducting applied research in social science, humanities and its cognate fields.
The Institute will provide a regional centre of excellence for transforming, and supporting a constant dynamic progression towards UN’s Sustainable Development Goals.
Contemporary research in the Arts and Humanities, promoting heritage and culture that inspires, enriches, and improves our individual and community wellbeing.
CELT supports the enhancement and innovation of our learning and teaching.
1st University of the Year
1st Lecturers and Teaching Quality
1st Student Support
@UniOfSuffolk
University of Suffolk Waterfront Building 19 Neptune Quay Ipswich IP4 1QJ
T: + 44 (0)1473 338000 Ask a Question
© University of Suffolk

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/study/search-for-a-course:
This course delivers the Associate Project Manager apprenticeship standard, a Level 4 qualification
This Progression Route is relevant to practitioners working with adults, and also to those who manage provision in the public, private and voluntary sectors.
Join us now on our innovative architecture program.
Design resilient spaces for rapid change, learn from industry experts, and engage in world-leading events.
A blend of education with practical skills, creating a flexible path to thrive in the digital era.
Customise your degree and specialise in marketing, entrepreneurship, leadership and more.
This top-up programme is designed for those that have completed a Higher National Diploma (HND) or Foundation Degree in Business or a closely related subject.
The BA (Hons) Childhood programme explores the multi-disciplinary nature of the study of childhood.
The BA (Hons) Childhood: Primary Education with QTS is an exciting opportunity for students wishing to become primary school teachers.
A blend of production, screenwriting, film theory, and real-world experience.
Learn in dedicated facilities with tutor support and access to top film kit, AVID, and ProTools.
The Early Years and Childhood Studies programme is an exciting programme enabling those working in early years to work towards graduate status.
The BA (Hons) Early Years and Primary Practice focuses on developing the student’s knowledge and understanding of the principles and values that underpin the learning and development of young children
Our BA (Hons) English course provides a foundation in literature, creative writing, and linguistics, working with professional published authors, active researchers, and HEA-accredited lecturers.
This BA (Hons) Esports course provides you with an immersive journey into the fascinating realm of competitive gaming, focusing on the art and science behind esports success.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-study:
Your studies enable you to explore a subject that you are passionate about, developing an in-depth understanding in areas of particular interest to you.
We're here to guide you through applying for your undergraduate course.
From student finance to awards and scholarships, we will help you find the best way to find your studies.
Many courses can be studied part-time so you can learn around a career, family or other commitments.
We work together with you to share our knowledge, provide support and help you to make a difference.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-study/applying-for-a-course:
Applying to university is a big step, we want you to feel informed and ready to take the next steps.
We have pulled together some key information to help you understand what the options are and relevant application process.
To apply for a full-time undergraduate course you should apply through UCAS.
Further guidance about how to apply, as well as guidance on how to write a personal statement, can be found on the UCAS website.
The UCAS application fee for 2025/26 entry is £28.50 for up to five choices.
Many of our undergraduate courses are offered on a part-time basis, offering a more flexible approach to learning, which allows you to complete your studies over a longer period of time.
To apply for a part-time undergraduate course, you should complete our Direct Application form.
If you are an international student, you should apply through the same routes as UK students, through UCAS for full-time undergraduate study, and directly to us for part-time undergraduate study.
Please note that if you are an international student applying to study in the UK on the Student Route visa you must study your degree on a full-time basis.
For entry in September 2025, you should aim to submit a UCAS application by 29 January 2025.
If you are applying after this date, check the course page or UCAS to make sure the course is still open.
Some courses with limited places will close to new applications after the January deadline or during the spring.
There is no deadline for direct applications, but we would advise you to submit it as early as you can.
"The University of Suffolk cultivated my passion for education and supporting the development of others"
Please note: unless otherwise stated, terms and conditions apply to individuals applying to study at the University of Suffolk, or studying on a University of Suffolk validated degree at a University of Suffolk Partner College or an academic partner of the University of Suffolk where the offer is made by the University.
View our Terms and Conditions of Offer for Applicants 24/25 .

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/funding-your-studies/undergraduate-study:
The decision to study a degree is an investment into your future, there are various means of support available to you in order to help fund your tuition fees and living costs.
UK full-time student tuition fees for undergraduate study at the University of Suffolk are £9,535 per year.
Most students cover the cost by applying for a Tuition Fee Loan, which is paid directly to the University.
Applications for student finance are now open online .
Please see the drop down headings below for the package of support that may be available to you as a student.
If you require information around other funding bodies, such as Student Finance Wales, Scotland or Northern Ireland please contact us.
UK undergraduate students starting their first degree, either on a full or part-time basis will likely be able to receive a tuition fee loan to pay their tuition fees, this is the fee advertised in the course information.
The tuition fee loan has no age limit and is not means-tested.
There are a number of factors in assessing your eligibility for funding; being eligible for a tuition fee loan may open up further eligibility for a maintenance loan and other grants.
A key starting point for assessing your eligibility for funding is your residency status.
It is important to check with Student Finance if you have any concerns about your residency status and student funding.
In most circumstances you need to meet the residency criteria by the beginning of the academic year in which you commence your course to be eligible for funding for the remainder of your studies.
Please note, residency status can be complicated.
Applying in good time will allow Student Finance to assess your eligibility before the start of the academic year and before you commit to a course.
For the purpose of Student Finance, the academic year commences on 1 September for students starting their course in September/October, and on 1 January for students starting their course in January/February.
If you have studied before, or already hold a degree or equivalent level qualification (even if you didn't take a loan at the time) it may limit your eligibility for further undergraduate funding.
Some courses are eligible for funding as a second degree such as some pre-registration healthcare courses.
Again, applying early will enable your funding eligibility to be checked in good time.
Check your general eligibility and apply for Student Finance .
For more information and to use a student loan estimator or repayment calculator, take a look at Blackbullion .
Part-time students are eligible for a tuition fee loan if you are studying at least 25% of the full course each year, and it is your first undergraduate degree.
You can get further information and apply for funding through Student Finance.
Disabled Students' Allowance To be eligible for Disabled Students Allowances (DSAs) you must be registered for a part-time course (undergraduate or postgraduate) that lasts at least one year and does not take you more than four times as long to complete as an equivalent full-time course.
You can find more information about DSAs on the Gov.uk website .
There are a range of loans and grants available to full-time and part-time UK undergraduate students.
After applying for a Tuition Fee Loan, the next step for students is to apply for a Maintenance Loan.
Your eligibility to apply for a Maintenance Loan, as with a Tuition Fee Loan, depends on various factors - with residency status and previous study being key points to consider.
Take a look to see if you qualify, and check your eligibility, how much is available and apply for Student Finance.
Part-time students will be assessed based on the intensity they study compared with the full-time equivalent.
If you, as the student, have any dependants or caring responsibilities you could be eligible to receive additional funding in the form of grants, which do not need to be paid back.
Please note that these grants are only available for Full-Time students and are means assessed.
Disabled Student Allowances
Students who can show that they have a disability, mental health condition, long term health condition or learning difficulty that affects their ability to study may be eligible for Disabled Student Allowances (DSA).
DSA is an additional source of funding to help with costs incurred when accessing study, for example, 1-1 specialist study skills tuition.
This is not paid direct to the student.
For more information on DSA's speak to the Disability and Wellbeing Team .
Students aged 60 or above
For those students who are aged 60 or over on the first day of the first academic year, there is a limited means assessed loan for living costs that you may be eligible for.
This loan still needs to be repaid if you reach the repayment threshold.
The Department for Work and Pensions should disregard this loan as income when assessing your eligibility for benefits.
Distance Learning Students
Students studying a course through distance learning could be eligible for a Tuition Fee Loan, but do not ordinarily qualify to receive a Maintenance Loan or any of the targeted grants - this is because students are not in attendance.
You may eligible to apply for a Maintenance Loan if you are unable to attend a course due to a disability.
Distance learning students are also able to access DSA's if required.
View all of the Bursaries and Scholarships that are available to University of Suffolk students.
Additional funding support is available to new and current pre-registration students on nursing, midwifery and some allied health professional courses.
Students will still access funding from the Student Loans Company for tuition and maintenance loans.
To be eligible for the Learning Support Fund you must also meet Student Finance England's course related and residency criteria.
For full information on the Learning Support Fund, take a look at the Healthcare Funding page.
Universities that charge higher fees are required to put aside some of the fees funding to support students who may be experiencing financial difficulties.
These funds are often referred to as Access Funds and are set out in the University Access and Participation plan, which has approval from the Office for Students.
The University of Suffolk funds are administered through the Financial Support Fund (FSF).
The FSF is assessed primarily in accordance with the national guidelines set out by the National Association of Student Money Advisers ( NASMA ).
The University of Suffolk, like other universities, also has local polices that assist to adapt the fund to some of the specific needs of the University of Suffolk students and the disciplines that they are studying.
The main fund opens in October of each year.
Once you are a student at the University of Suffolk you can find out more about making an application to the fund by visiting the Brightspace pages or by contacting moneyadvice@uos.ac.uk.
Both the Tuition Fee and Maintenance Loan's do have to be repaid, but not until you have graduated and are earning above a certain income.
The threshold at which you start repaying depends upon when you started your course.
If you have a Plan 2 Loan Started course between 1 September 2012 and 31 July 2023 You will begin to repay your loan when you earn above £27,295 per year
If you have a Plan 5 Loan Started course on or after 1 August 2023 You will begin to repay your loan when you earn above £25,000 per year
However, if you leave your course early you may be asked to repay some of the Maintenance Loan or grants earlier.
For example, if you are a September starter and you leave your course at some point during the following January, you may have already received the second instalment of your Maintenance Loan – which is usually paid at the beginning of January.
You will likely go in to ‘overpayment’ for some of the maintenance loan for that academic term and would be asked to arrange repayment of the amount overpaid.
If you take time out during your course, you may also go into overpayment.
This can be complex, so please get in touch with the team for some advice.
Any balance left unpaid will be written off:
More information on student loan repayments can be found on the government website .
US Department of Veteran Affairs
If you are an American citizen or a dependent and plan on receiving funding from the U.S.
Department of Veteran Affairs (VA), please email admissions@uos.ac.uk with your name, contact details and course of study, so we can ensure your course is registered with the VA.
MOD’s Enhanced Learning Credits Scheme
We are an approved provider of Higher Education courses for the Ministry of Defences Enhanced Learning Credits Scheme (ELC), a scheme which provides financial assistance to members of the Armed Forces.
The University Provider ID is 3033 .
To check if you may be eligible for funding through this scheme, please visit the Enhanced Learning Credits website .
Some student finance is based on the income of parents or a partner, but the student themselves do not need to declare their own income unless it’s taxable and unearned.
Income that will be taken into account includes bank or building society gross interest, property lettings or rent received, trusts, sponsorships and pensions.
If a student is being released by their employer to attend a course at university or college, this will be taken into account as well.
This is where a student is still being paid their salary to attend the course on set days, not if they simply choose to work alongside their studies.
If they’re claiming any income-assessed benefits before they start their course, it’s vital that students understand their continued entitlement to these is likely to be affected.
They should consult the Job Centre or the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to understand more.
If a student is entitled to benefits, they might get a higher amount of Maintenance Loan including a ‘special support’ element.
This special support element of the loan won’t be counted as income by the DWP.
The majority of any Maintenance Loan entitlement, Adult Dependants’ Grant and 30% of any Postgraduate Loans will be treated as income by the DWP.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-study/part-time-study:
We recognise that there are many different reasons for wanting to study part-time, whether it’s to fit around your family commitments, boost your career prospects, or enable you to earn while you learn.
Around a fifth of undergraduate students in the UK study part-time.
It offers a more flexible approach to learning, allowing you to complete your studies over a longer period.
This is typically four and a half to nine years for an undergraduate degree, or two to three years for a postgraduate course.
Part-time students follow the same structure as full-time but take fewer modules per year depending on how long they wish to take to complete the course.
Below are some frequently asked questions about studying part-time with us.
As a part-time student at the University of Suffolk you will attend the same classes as full-time students but you chose how much time you devote to your study each year and how many credits you obtain.
This gives you the flexibility to choose how long it takes you to complete your qualification, but as a guide:
Part-time students follow the same structure and modules as full-time students but only take a proportion of the modules per year.
The number of modules studied per year depends on the individual and the time they wish to take to complete the course.
Undergraduate part-time study may lead to the following awards:
Postgraduate part-time study may lead to the following awards:
There are a large number of undergraduate courses available to study part-time, you can filter by part-time courses on our course search page .
Nearly all of our postgraduate courses can be studied on a part-time basis, you can filter by part-time courses on our course search page
The Student Life team can offer advice about childcare opportunities and the benefits and funding that may be available to students who have dependents.
Alternatively, a list of childcare providers can be found on the Suffolk County Council website.
Students studying in the UK do not have to pay their tuition fees in advance and this includes part-time students.
Providing you do not already have a degree and you are eligible, part-time students can apply for a Tuition Fee Loan if they are studying at least 25% of the full course each year.
The fees are covered by a loan supplied by the government and paid direct to the institution for you.
There is no age limit on tuition fees.
For more student finance information, see our fees and finance page .
Some students decide to continue in employment while studying part-time, and employers who want to support those students can pay some or all of their course fees.
Other employers offer options for flexible working or study leave.
Students are still eligible to apply for the Tuition Fee Loan if their employer is unable to fully fund their tuition fees, but employers cannot take out the loan on behalf of their employees.
The Learning Services team offer additional support to students at all levels of study and provide year-round workshops in study skills, academic writing, referencing, maths, statistics, research methods and computer skills.
Drop-in’s and one-to-one appointments with Academic Skills Advisors are available and the team also provides a range of online and downloadable resources for students to use.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-study:
Studying a postgraduate course can help you to further your career.
The majority offer you a choice of full or part-time study options so you can balance work, life and study.
Our diverse campus is home to students from over 90 countries.
We're here to guide you through applying for your postgraduate course, you can apply now for September 2025 entry.
The Suffolk Doctoral College looks after recruitment, student experience and skills development of all Postgraduate Research students.
The University of Suffolk is home to a vibrant and dynamic research community with a range of specialist academic expertise.
Once you’ve decided which Postgraduate course to apply for, you can apply directly using our Direct Application Form .
Links to the application form are available on each Postgraduate course page.
You will be asked to create an account, which means you can leave the application and return to it when you are ready to complete it.
Applications for postgraduate study usually open one year in advance, and applications can be submitted until very close to the start date.
We would encourage you to submit your application as early as possible so you can apply for a Postgraduate Loan and make arrangements to move to Ipswich if you do not already live in the area.
T he application includes questions about employment and education history, and requires a personal statement and detail of a referee.
Once you have submitted your application, the Admissions team will ask you to provide evidence of your completed qualifications, and evidence that you meet our English language requirements where appropriate.
To apply for the London Centre MBA, please use the London Centre Direct Application Form .
The link is also available on the MBA course page .
Please ensure you use this link for the London Centre MBA to avoid delay in processing your application.
Once you have created your account, you can complete your application.
Please complete your application form as soon as possible including information on your education and work history.
The London Centre MBA requires applicants to have three years management experience.
You will need an employment reference as well as your personal statement and referee details.
International applicants please refer to How to Apply Postgraduate Taught pages on the website for additional information.
"Applying for the MA in Creative and Critical Writing was the easiest decision I have ever made."

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/funding-your-studies/postgraduate-study:
If you are looking for information on fees for International students, please visit our International Fees and Scholarships page .
Postgraduate fees typically increase each year, therefore if you are studying over more than one academic year, your tuition fee in subsequent years is likely to increase.
Individual fees for each course can be found on the respective course pages.
A postgraduate master's loan is available of up to £12,858 (2025/2026) to help with the tuition fees and/or living costs for master's study.
This is for the course, rather than per year.
You can apply for the full amount regardless of the actual tuition fee that you will be paying.
The loan will be paid directly to you in three instalments in each year of study.
Payments will be made in three termly instalments over the duration of the course.
How to Apply
You can apply online, if you have previously received funding for an undergraduate degree you should log into the same account.
You can apply for the loan up to nine months after the start of the course.
Repayment
The master’s loan is repaid at the same time, and same method as undergraduate loans.
The earning threshold for master’s loan is £21,000 per year, you will repay 6% of earnings above this.
To note:
For any queries around eligibility please contact us .
Please look at the full eligibility criteria via the student finance website.
A postgraduate doctoral loan is available of £30,301 (2025/2026) to help with the tuition fees and/or living costs for doctoral study.
This for the course, rather than per year.
The amount may vary depending on the year of study you are in at the time of applying.
How to apply
The doctoral loan is repaid at the same time, and same method as undergraduate loans.
The earning threshold for a doctoral loan is £25,000 per year, you will repay 9% of earnings above this.
For any queries around eligibility please contact us.
Find out more about the details of all the scholarships on offer for UK Postgraduate students.
All members of the University of Suffolk Alumni Association are entitled to a loyalty reduction of up to 25% on selected postgraduate course fees.
This scheme has been developed to support and encourage alumni students to progress to full or part-time postgraduate taught or research programmes at the University.
More information is available on the Alumni Postgraduate Loyalty Scheme page .

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/research-and-knowledge-exchange/phd-study-and-the-suffolk-doctoral-college:
Interested in joining our thriving Postgraduate Research student community here at the University of Suffolk?
Please read on to find out more about us and what we can offer you.
Working closely with academics, and supported by our commended Suffolk Doctoral College, you will have an excellent experience here in Ipswich as a Postgraduate Research student and make a valued contribution to our emergent research community.
Through studying with us, you will have access to a comprehensive Researcher Development Programme, accessible to all University of Suffolk PhD students and early career researchers.
Training will primarily be available online and will provide you with an excellent series of workshops to cover wide-ranging topics relevant to you and your PhD.
The Suffolk Doctoral College also organises a number of social and training events throughout the year, where interaction between researchers of different academic disciplines is encouraged, to foster a vibrant and supportive research community.
Your PhD experience will benefit from our location on the Ipswich Waterfront and our continuous investment in our facilities.
This includes a recently refurbished dedicated working space on the first floor of the Library Building, available exclusively to our PGR students and their supervisors as a social and working space.
Our research degree programmes are currently validated by the University of Essex.
On successful completion of your research degree programme, you will receive an award from the University of Essex.
Katie, one of our PhD students, tells us about her PhD study at the University of Suffolk.
Related Content

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/business/degree-apprenticeships:
The University have been delivering Higher and Degree apprenticeships in Suffolk since 2017 and is rated the 5th highest university provider nationally for its overall qualification apprenticeship achievement among small-medium sized providers.
We were also Ofsted rated ‘Good’ in 2022.
We are committed to ensuring that our Higher and Degree apprenticeship graduates complete their qualifications equipped with the required knowledge, skills, and experience to thrive in their working life, as well as meet the needs of employers across Suffolk and beyond.
Apprenticeships are an empowering force for individual and community growth and development, and we're incredibly proud of the portfolio of apprenticeships on offer here at the University of Suffolk.
Why choose an apprenticeship?
Available to individuals of all ages, apprenticeships offer an ‘earn while you learn’ approach through a combination of theoretical learning and hands-on training in a professional setting, whilst also providing opportunities for upskilling and retraining existing workers.
We offer a range of apprenticeships across different subject areas suitable for a breadth of industries:
A member of the Apprenticeship team or the Business Engagement team will be in touch once you have completed the form.
For any other enquiries, please email apprenticeships@uos.ac.uk
Find out more about the programmes we offer and how to enrol.
Looking to upskill your workforce or take on an apprentice?
Find out how your business can grow through apprenticeships.
Everything you need to know about the apprenticeship standards that we offer and how to gain entry.
Our Apprenticeship provision
university for medium apprenticeship providers
of apprentices maintain employment at the end of their studies
overall apprenticeship achievement rate (2024)
Director of Apprenticeships, Yvonne has previously been an assistant principal at an FE college and won a Brap equality and diversity award.
Ellen is the Apprenticeship Contracts Manager.
Rob is the Quality Manager (Apprenticeships)
Jonni Burton is the Apprenticeship Compliance Officer, and has a quality, compliance & teaching background as well as building relationships with employers.
Lil is Apprenticeship Practice Educator in the School of Nursing, Midwifery and Public Health.
Anna Arbor is an Apprenticeship Practice Educator at the University of Suffolk.
Apprenticeship Practice Educator Linda is a qualified Teacher, Assessor, Quality Assurer with over twenty years of experience in delivering Apprenticeships.
Fiona works closely with academic departments and employers to coach, monitor and develop apprentices and Higher and Degree Apprenticeships.
The University of Suffolk has secured government funding to accelerate the introduction of new Level 6 apprenticeships.
An apprentice studying with the University of Suffolk is celebrating after scooping a national award.
Two computing apprentices studying at the University of Suffolk have been shortlisted in the annual IT and Digital Apprenticeships Awards.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/business/professional-development-and-short-courses:
Learn, achieve and grow within an environment that prioritises flexibility and understands how important your time is.
We create and deliver bespoke training programmes for businesses and organisations, and can offer tours of our on-site training facilities so you can be confident that our courses will be exactly what you need.
We offer a wide range of courses for employees and individuals — browse our course listings and find the right fit for you.
We also offer a range of high quality Continuing Professional Development (CPD) opportunities for individuals and organisations working within the Heath and Care sector.
All of our courses are practice-based and impact-driven in order to support high quality teaching and learning, providing opportunities to improve health and care delivery in the region and beyond.
Our CPD portfolio is continually updated to respond quickly to national and local initiatives, and has been designed to be delivered in a flexible way with a range of delivery patterns.
If you wish to apply for funding, please contact your employers' education and training department to access further details, request permission to study and funding options.
If you are working within the private, voluntary or independent healthcare sectors and would like to apply for study please email: CPDHealth@uos.ac.uk.
The University of Suffolk is a partner for the Pathways Training development Fund (PFT).
PTF provides grants to SMEs & Social Enterprises (including Community Interest Companies) in Norfolk and Suffolk.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/study/why-choose-the-university-of-suffolk:
We are not just another university.
The University of Suffolk is young and ambitious.
We have absorbed the best traditions in higher education and aligned them with the modern world of employment and entrepreneurship.
We’re committed to being distinctively more personal and supportive, we’re a community with students at the heart.
Our philosophy — we equip you to lead and succeed in a changing world.
Our support — Our approach is personal; we support you through every stage of your learning journey.
Our location — Our main campus in Ipswich is set on the beautiful Waterfront.
Your individuality — We treat you as an individual.
You’re a name, not a number.
Your future — Employability is embedded in everything we do.
92% of our graduates are in employment or further study (15 months after graduating) according to Graduate Outcomes 2019-20 and we are ranked 26th in the UK for graduates in career 15 months after graduation ( Guardian University Guide 2023 ).
This high percentage of students in work of further study 15 months after graduating confirms the strong emphasis on employability and enterprise across all our degrees.
Employability is not just about developing relevant skills, or getting a job; it is about your whole personal, academic and professional development.
Studying at the University of Suffolk, you will have the opportunity to hone your personal strengths, and identify and work on your areas of development.
All of our degrees enable you to get involved in problem solving, creative thinking, team working, delivering presentations and using digital technologies; all of which are essential skills needed in the world of employment.
Many of our degree courses incorporate modules in professional practice, or graduate development programmes to enable you to put into practice your learning, engage with employers and outside organisations, and discover where your studies will take you in life.
At the University of Suffolk, you’ll receive an exceptional education, richer and more rounded than many.
In the 2025 Whatuni Student Choice Awards ( WUSCAs 2025 ), we were named University of the Year and placed first in the categories of Student Support and Lecturers and Teaching Quality .
We also received Silver awards in Facilities , International , and Postgraduate categories.
Additionally, the 2025 National Student Survey (NSS) found that 93% of our students were satisfied with the teaching on their course — placing us above the national average.
Alongside your academic experience, the University can offer you a modern campus on the Ipswich waterfront, surrounded by bars and cafes, and a vibrant town for arts, culture and sport.
Suffolk is perfectly located to be the best of both worlds, a picturesque landscape of bustling towns, over 60 miles of beautiful coastline to explore, and all within easy reach of London.
for Career Prospects
in the UK for Spend on Academic Services
in the UK for Social Inclusion
There are plenty of reasons to love Suffolk, take a look at what life is like at the University of Suffolk and find out why our students love studying here.
Come and see Suffolk for yourself.
Our Open Days are a great way to get a taste of student life, explore our waterfront campus, view the accommodation, join subject talks with academic staff and chat to our students.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/get-in-touch:
We're happy to help with any enquiries or questions you may have – our general enquiries phone number will point you in the right direction, or choose from one of our dedicated support services.
For enquiries relating to your application, please contact the Admissions Team:
If you have submitted an application but your enquiry is related to another topic i.e Student Accommodation or Student Finance:
If you’d like to speak to a current student or lecturer:
To arrange a visit either for an individual or for a group of students, please email schools@uos.ac.uk
All requests should be made through completion of the Freedom of Information Request form .
A lternatively you can email a request to datagovernance@uos.ac.uk.
T: 01473 338000
Alumni website
Alumni Relations: Alumni@uos.ac.uk
Fundraising: Giving@uos.ac.uk
Instagram: @UOS_Alumni
Facebook: @University of Suffolk Alumni
X: @UOS_Alumni
Visit our staff directory to find out more about our academic and professional services staff.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/destination-suffolk:
The University has a modern campus on the Ipswich waterfront , surrounded by bars and cafes , in a vibrant town for arts, culture and sport .
What I love about Suffolk is the combination of the coast and the countryside, plus it’s not far from London and the airports.
Sun First to see the sunrise and one of the sunniest counties in the UK
Coast 80 km of coastline and two blue flag beaches
Happy Two Suffolk towns are amongst the happiest places to live in the UK

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/your-campus:
At the University of Suffolk, our campuses are more than just places of learning — they are vibrant communities where innovation, inclusivity, and inspiration thrive.
Whether you're based in the heart of Ipswich, studying in the dynamic city of London, or learning with one of our academic partners, you'll find a supportive and forward-thinking environment designed to help you achieve your goals.
Explore our campuses and centres to discover where your journey could begin.
Our flagship campus is located on the stunning Ipswich waterfront and is the beating heart of the University.
With state-of-the-art facilities, a thriving student community, and stunning views, it’s the ideal place to live and learn.
From cutting-edge labs to collaborative study spaces, everything you need is right on campus.
Our London Centre which offers a unique opportunity to study in one of the world’s most global and dynamic cities.
Situated in the vibrant East End, students benefit from industry links, cultural experiences, and a diverse learning environment, all while earning a University of Suffolk degree.
Based in Great Yarmouth, The Place is a creative and cultural hub that provides a range of courses in the arts, performance, and media.
With specialist facilities and a strong link to the local community, The Place is ideal for students looking to develop their creative potential.
We work with a number of regional partner colleges across the East of England to provide accessible, high-quality higher education closer to home.
These partnerships allow students to study a variety of courses with the full support and validation of the University of Suffolk.
Our academic partnerships extend beyond our immediate campuses to include collaborative institutions in the UK and internationally.
These partners help us deliver a global educational experience, enriching our curriculum and offering students greater choice and flexibility.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/your-campus/ipswich-campus:
Ipswich, the county town of Suffolk is the perfect choice for those seeking entertainment combined with peaceful, relaxed charm.
The University’s main campus is located on the stunning Ipswich Waterfront and it’s a ten-minute walk from the town centre packed with independent shops, restaurants, pubs, cafes, theatres and cinemas.
Also, just a short walk away is Portman Road, the home of Ipswich Town Football Club, Cardinal Park leisure complex and several parks offering beautiful open spaces for picnics and exercise.
Our students experience the highest quality in teaching, learning and social environments.
Whatever you choose to study, you will learn in state-of-the-art surroundings.
We have invested across the University to create an environment showcasing the latest teaching facilities enabling you to achieve great things.
Discover everything the University of Suffolk has to offer for you by booking your own bespoke tour of our Ipswich campus.
The Hold is the flagship heritage facility for Suffolk located on the University of Suffolk Ipswich campus.
Find out more about what the DigiTech Centre offers, which courses are involved in this partnership, and the facilities and access arrangements.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/london-centre:
Enjoy a University of Suffolk experience in the cultural heart of the capital.
The London Centre is an exciting new venture for the University of Suffolk.
Opening in Pocock House, a building with a long association with both industry and education, the University of Suffolk is able to offer its unique approach to postgraduate learning in the heart of Britain’s capital city.
The University is dedicated to widening participation in learning and providing a welcoming, supportive, inclusive learning environment for all.
Employability is not just about developing relevant skills or getting a job; it is about your whole personal, academic and professional development.
By studying at the London Centre, you will have the opportunity to hone your personal strengths and identify and work on your areas of development.
We invite you to join us on our journey to transform individuals, our community, our region and beyond.
EXPLORE POSTGRADUATE STUDY AT THE LONDON CENTRE
Our London Centre, right in the heart of Southwark—a vibrant borough bursting with energy, culture, and endless things to do!
Whether you're into sports, arts, history, or just exploring the city, there's something here for you.
Check out Southwark Council website for what they have to offer in the local area.
Must-Visit Spots:
Get ready for an unforgettable experience—London is yours to explore!
The London Centre has two underground stations which are less than 10 minutes' walk away; Elephant & Castle tube station or Borough tube station.
There is also Southwark tube station, Waterloo tube station and Lambeth North tube station within 15 minutes' walk.
Please see Travel for London website for details.
Elephant & Castle overground station is 10 minutes' walk away whereas Waterloo East is just over 15 minutes' walk away.
You can also find more information on walking routes on the Transport for London website .
The closest airports to the London Centre (Pocock House) via public transport are London Gatwick or London City Airport (both are less than an hour's travel on average).
However, you may arrive at another London airport, such as London Heathrow, Stansted, or Luton.
Most London airports are less than an hour and a half’s travel by public transport.
You may find it useful to look at this London airports map .
There is no onsite parking for the London Centre and driving in this area is subject to local congestion charges.
Please see Places to park | Southwark Council for nearby parking to campus.
Besides the tube, there are many other ways you can travel around London, such as:
Find out more by going to the official Transport for London website (and clicking ‘More’ from the menu at the top of the page).
The London Centre is located at:
Pocock House
235 Southwark Bridge Road
London
SE1 6NP
Find out more about studying our Master of Business Administration (MBA) at the London Centre.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/your-campus/student-centre-:
The University of Suffolk aims to make life as simple as possible for students and those who may wish to study here in the future, so the Student Centre acts as the main point of contact for many of the services and activities that students may need during their time at the University.
If you have a question, the Student Centre is the one place to start looking for an answer.
Our knowledgeable team of Student Life Advisers provide a welcoming, friendly and efficient service, and will be able to respond ‘on-the-spot’ to the majority of enquiries.
We can help students access many of the specialist services on offer, including booking one-to-one appointments with support staff.
In addition, we offer information and advice for anyone who may be considering Higher Education and can provide support throughout the application process.
You can contact the Student Centre team in person by visiting us on the ground floor of the Waterfront Building at the Ipswich Campus.
Everyone is welcome in the Student Centre and you do not need to make an appointment, simply drop-in.
Please be advised that there is a private discussion area in the corner of the Student Centre which can be used if you wish to discuss a sensitive issue with a member of staff away from the main desk area.
Course enquiries and guidance on how to apply to university
Initial advice and guidance
Enrolment advice
Student finance, bursaries and funding advice
Student accommodation
Disability and learning support
Welfare and wellbeing
Careers guidance and job shop
Support for students applying for Extenuating Circumstances
ID card and parking permit enquiries
Student attendance certificates
Support with council tax exemption certificates
Timetable, rooming enquiries and marking attendance
Assignment hand-in and collection
Interview registration for visiting applicants
…and much more, please just ask!
Monday: 8.45am- 5.15pm
Tuesday: 8.45am- 5.15pm (available via live chat only 5.15pm- 6:30pm)
Wednesday: 8.45am- 5.15pm
Thursday: 8.45am-5.15pm
Friday: 8.45am-4.45pm
Keep in Touch

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/your-campus/sports-facilities:
The University aims to provide opportunities for students and staff to participate in sport and physical activity at whatever level they chose.
University life offers a unique opportunity to get involved in sport and physical recreation, so whether your aim is for fun, fitness or achieving your true potential, we hope you will be inspired to engage in sport and physical activity during your time at the University of Suffolk.
The University has state-of-the-art sport and exercise science laboratories which are used for teaching and research.
The Students’ Union run Social Sports, which offers a wide variety of different sports to try!
They include traditional sports such as badminton, alternative sports like climbing and fitness-based physical activity like Pilates or Aerobics.
The sessions are open to everyone from beginners to those who play regularly.
For those who take sport more seriously, the Students’ Union also run BUCS teams that compete against other Universities in league and cup competitions.
Planning permission has been granted for the creation of cutting-edge sports facilities on Lindbergh Road in Ipswich.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/your-campus/partner-colleges:
We currently work in partnership with two local Further Education Colleges located in the region to offer the opportunity for students to study at their local college and obtain a recognised University of Suffolk award; the University of Suffolk at Suffolk New College located next to the main University campus in Ipswich, and the University of Suffolk at East Coast College located in Lowestoft and Great Yarmouth.
Students can study a range of higher education qualifications, including Honours and Foundation degrees, with many courses developed in collaboration with local businesses.
These courses are validated by the University, and we work closely with each partner college to ensure that students benefit from a high-quality learning experience.
Our partner colleges provide access to higher education ‘on the doorstep’ of many young and mature students in Suffolk and Great Yarmouth, but also attract students from further afield who are interested in a particular course or keen to enjoy the distinctive environments offered by each partner college.
The University of Suffolk at East Coast College offers state-of-the-art facilities and industry-standard equipment for its Foundation and Honours degrees, based in the lively coastal towns of Great Yarmouth and Lowestoft.
The University of Suffolk at Suffolk New College, situated in the Education Quarter of Ipswich, provides a friendly and welcoming environment in which to learn.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/student-life:
At the University of Suffolk we recognise the importance of being here if you need us.
Student Life are committed to providing free and impartial information, advice and guidance as well as specialist events, such as workshops, employer talks, fairs and initiatives.
All services provide a flexible delivery to allow students to choose how to experience our service.
For example; meeting face to face on campus or through video, telephone call, email and chat.
University of Suffolk Student Life offers a service across the Partner Colleges with professional expertise available at each partner college.
Please read our Department Privacy Notice .
If you know the service you would like to connect with, you can make an appointment online or email the team directly.
Staff are available throughout your studies and are happy to discuss your support needs at any time.
Independent, impartial and professional counselling is available to all students.
This support is confidential, enabling you to discuss any problems you may have
Our student mentors are here to welcome you to Suffolk and help you settle in.
Sign-up and take part in our activities.
The Department of Learning Services offers qualified and experienced librarians and advisors to provide friendly, informal and accessible advice and support.
Find all the information on fees and financial support available to you, whether you are a full-time undergraduate, postgraduate, international or part-time student.
Further Support

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/student-life/disability--wellbeing:
The University of Suffolk values diversity in our community and recognises individual academic identities, which includes specific learning needs.
We positively welcome applications from people with disabilities.
We are committed to an ethos of development that aims to fully achieve equality of opportunity and access.
The University recognises the importance of anticipatory and individualised support mechanisms in enabling all students to achieve their potential and as such will continue to improve and expand provision for students with a disability.
We aim to answer some of the questions you may have about the University of Suffolk and support that is available, whether you are considering it as a place to study, you are an applicant, or you are a current student.
The University of Suffolk aims to create an environment which is accessible for students with any disability.
Find out how to apply for DSA, and what you can expect following your application.
Student Life Mentors aim to help you make the most of your start at the University of Suffolk or help to redirect you down the line.
Find out more about what support and reasonable adjustments the University can provide apprentices with.
Our Campus and Partner locations University of Suffolk, Ipswich University of Suffolk, Suffolk New College University of Suffolk, East Coast College University of Suffolk, London Centre London School of Commerce (LSC) Global Banking School (GBS) LD Training All campuses conform to the standards outlined in our Disability Statement .
Coordinators of individual reasonable adjustments and support arrangements are often known as disability advisers or hold a similar title.
There is an adviser based at each campus.
To contact or make an appointment with the relevant staff member, please refer to the contact details for the disability adviser at your place of study.
All campuses conform to the standards outlined in our Disability Statement .
The University of Suffolk aims to create an environment which is accessible for students with any disability.
This includes specific learning differences, sensory impairment, long-term medical conditions and/or mental health difficulties.
If you have a disability or specific learning need, it is essential that you meet with a member of the disability and wellbeing team as early as possible.
We usually recommend that students meet their adviser in the summer before they start their course, to ensure that all support is in place ready for the start of your course.
With your input, support arrangements are identified and put in place using a reasonable adjustment agreement.
You can book an appointment via the Student Centre, their contact details can be found on the Get in Touch page.
At your appointment an adviser will complete a reasonable adjustment agreement, support you to apply for DSA and set up any other support plans you may require.
If you will need exam concessions or want to make an application for DSA, please bring any medical evidence along to the appointment.
Be prepared Log in to your student account to check your timetable and make a start on reading lists.
Assignment deadlines are available early, so make sure you put them in your diary at the start of term
Get organised If you don't already have a planner or diary, get one!
Visit the SU They have loads of clubs and societies that you can get involved with
Sign up for Most Active Students Exercise is key to a health body and mind
Eat well and stay hydrated It isn't just your body that needs nourishment - your mind functions much better with the right nutrition
Make time for rest With everything university has to offer, it will be tempting to 'burn the candle at both ends'.
However if you regularly miss out on sleep it can lead to exhaustion, lack of sleep and possible mental health problems
Talk to someone if you are struggling You are not alone.
Try talking to a flatmate or course mate - you might find that you aren't alone in feeling a bit overwhelmed.
If you feel you need to talk to a professional, please book an appointment with the Student's Union advice centre or with student service
Did you know that the University also has a range of support embedded?
There is various internal support available, and we encourage you to take up this support as and when you need it.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/student-life/student-life-mentors:
Student Life Mentors are experienced students who can offer information, advice, and support to help your transition to University whether you are a new or continuing student.
They are there to help ensure you have the best possible experience during your studies, and assist you in reaching your goals.
Our Student Life Mentors are trained by staff in Student Life who provide information and advice on Careers and Employability, Student Finance, Disability and Wellbeing and International opportunities.
They also bring their university/life experience to the role.
Many of our mentors are on placement as part of their course, working part-time in Ipswich and beyond, mature students or the first of their family to go to university.
This is a paid role, and as a mentor you will be working with a diverse range of students who have just begun their journey at the university.
You’ll be trained and supported by Student Life Advisers to help new students thrive as they start their student journey.
Mentors are also given opportunities to shadow the Student Life Team in the Student Centre as a way of furthering their employability development.
The mentor team is also involved in events around campus throughout the year, including “wellbeing walks” and induction events.
Mentoring is a great way to improve your employability skills and provides valuable experience within a professional setting.
You’ll be provided with training and shadowing opportunities during a time as a mentor and will be involved in events around campus.
Applications to work as a Student Life Mentor have now closed.
However, if any further paid opportunities arise in Student Life Mentoring project, they will be advertised here.
If you have any questions, please contact the Student Life Team via Minerva.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/student-life/counselling-service:
Independent, impartial and professional counselling is available to all University of Suffolk students.
This support is confidential, enabling you to discuss any problems you may have.
The University of Suffolk Counselling Service offers impartial and confidential counselling that is helpful for a range of feelings and issues, including:
These feelings can be caused by a wide range of situations, like the death of a loved one, not getting on with a family member or partner, problems in education or in work.
You may feel that you would prefer not to speak to family or friends for a range of reasons perhaps so as not to burden them.
To get a different perspective or to have a space where you do not need to worry about the other person's reaction.
Counselling provides a safe, impartial and confidential space in which to explore your feelings.
Talking to a professional in a confidential setting, safe in the knowledge that what you say will be respectfully listened to, can sometimes help us to understand what is making us feel a certain way.
All of us at some point in our lives will experience times when we feel that we are overwhelmed or cannot cope.
These feelings often impact on other areas of our life.
These feelings may affect our academic studies, our relationship with others, or our personal life, to the extent that we feel unable to live in a successful or satisfactory way.
This may be the time to seek out a counsellor.
Feelings such as anger, grief, anxiety and loneliness can be distressing and cause anguish, especially if they have been with us for a long period of time.
Counselling can help you to explore and reflect upon these feelings.
It can help you to understand what is at the root of the concern, and can help you to work towards resolving these difficulties.
Counselling is not advice and may feel different from other types of help.
It is a process where the counsellor can help you to explore and understand difficulties, and then help you to develop your own resources to cope with them.
The counsellor will treat you with respect and treat your concerns with sensitivity.
You will be carefully listened to, and at the end of counselling there is usually a better understanding of how to cope with existing and future difficulties.
Each counselling session lasts for 50 minutes, however some people find this is a little overwhelming and you do not have to stay the full 50 minutes if you would prefer to have a shorter session.
The first meeting with the Counsellor is an assessment session and provides you with an opportunity to discuss issues you wish to explore and what you hope to achieve from the Counselling, this session may not be with the counsellor with whom you are allocated for your next session, once you have a Counsellor allocated this person will be with you for your allocated sessions.
Sometimes one or two sessions will be enough for you; sometimes the Counsellor will suggest a limited number of sessions, we generally work in blocks of up to six sessions which occur weekly at the same time and on the same day - for some people less frequent meetings can be arranged and if you need to take a break this is fine too.
Confidentiality is paramount within counselling, the Counselling Service adheres to the British Association for Counselling and Psychotherapy (BACP) Ethical Framework.
Students who come to the Counselling Service at Student Services often have concerns about the private information they share with a counsellor or therapist.
Everything you put in your Registration Form as well as what you say to your counsellor is confidential within the service.
This means that while all counsellors attend supervision and staff meetings where they may discuss their work, these procedures are also bound by confidentiality.
Your counsellor will not communicate with anyone in or outside the university about you unless it is with your explicit permission.
You and your counsellor may agree to speak to your GP in the event your GP can be helpful in your treatment process.
The only circumstance under which information might be shared without your explicit permission is in the event that the counsellor believes you are in danger of harming yourself or others.
Even in these circumstances, we would normally seek to speak to you first before contacting anyone else.
Your personal details and sessional notes are stored on computer for the sole use of service staff.
All records are strictly confidential and are kept securely.
If you have queries about any aspect of confidentiality and/or record keeping, please discuss this with your counsellor or therapist.
Student Service adheres to the code of ethics set forth by the British Association for Counselling and Psychotherapy ( www.bacp.co.uk ).
No information regarding a student’s contact with the Service will be released to family, other university staff, medical staff or anyone else, without the student’s prior consent, unless exceptional circumstances prevail, such as a student being at risk of harm, or at risk of harming another person.
University of Suffolk at Ipswich is situated in the Waterfront Building.
The location provides a quiet, relaxed and confidential atmosphere whilst still allowing for easy accessibility.
contact: via the Student Life team or by emailing Emma Youngs - Student Counsellor e.youngs2@uos.ac.uk
University of Suffolk at Great Yarmouth College: contact 01493 419290 or email .
University of Suffolk at West Suffolk College: contact 01284 701301 or email .
University of Suffolk at Lowestoft College: contact 01502 583521 or make an enquiry via the website.
University of Suffolk at Suffolk New College: contact our Student Support Team on 01473 382738 or support@suffolk.ac.uk
The counselling service is also available outside of term time.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/student-life/chaplaincy:
The University of Suffolk is a multi-faith community and welcomes students from a diverse range of backgrounds.
In Ipswich we have a multi-faith chaplaincy welcoming both staff and students of all faiths and no faith.
A Faith Shaped Presence
The Chaplaincy Team consists of a number of Chaplains and Chaplaincy Volunteers.
Each of us represents a particular faith and are here for all students and staff.
What can we do for you?
We're here for everyone, and here to listen - find out more about the chaplaincy to see what we can help you with.
10.00am–12.00pm — Drop in
10.00am–4:00pm — Social Space is Open and a Chaplain is available
You can book an appointment or simply drop in
12:00pm- 4:00pm A Chaplain is available
4:00pm-6:00pm – International Student Café, with free drinks and snacks.
8:00-9:00 – Staff Prayer Breakfast
Limited appointments with a Chaplain available
4 .30pm–6:00 pm — Student led Christian Union
10.00am– 16: .00pm — Social Space is Open and a Chaplain is available
12:00pm-2:00pm – Monthly Student Lunch, see Facebook and posters for dates
Chaplaincy Social Space is Open
Chaplains are available online, via Zoom, and in person for one-to-one chats over coffee.
Book a slot by contacting Linda Pepper (Lead Chaplain) on 07854 188536, or by email.
Don't forget to like our Facebook page, too.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/student-life/student-life-team:
In term time, all University services operate in person on campus as well as remotely.
We hope that this gives you flexibility to engage with our services in a way which is convenient and which feels comfortable for you.
Advisers can be accessed as usual through email, telephone and appointment (in person or via MS Teams).
Our on-campus Student Centre is fully operational and the team of Student Life Advisers are available Monday to Thursday, 8.45am–5.15pm and Friday, 8.45am–4.45pm.
If you have any queries, you can contact the Student Centre.
Their contact details can be found on the Get in Touch page.
Our aim is that to ensure that services are available to you wherever you are currently living.
However, if you are living outside of the United Kingdom (UK), there may be some limitations to how you can access university mental health services remotely.
These are outlined below.
Please note that support will be offered during UK working hours only (9.00am–5.00pm Monday to Friday).
If time differences make it difficult to arrange direct contact, advice will be offered remotely via email and online delivery of information.
What we can offer:
What we cannot provide:
Mental Health crisis or urgent support — If you are in need of urgent medical or mental health care, please contact your local Doctor or healthcare provider.
University staff will provide information where possible, however they may not hold up to date information or have knowledge of the relevant services for all countries and therefore we recommend speaking with your local Doctor or healthcare provider in the first instance.
Through the academic year we continue to offer online appointments as well as in person meetings and support.
Please see our page about Appointments and Drop ins for more information about how to connect with the team.
We can offer online screening for Specific Learning Difficulties (SpLD ) and diagnostic assessments can be delivered both online and in person.
More information about the assessment process for Apprenticeship, Undergraduate and Postgraduate students can be found on Brightspace Dyslexia and Specific Learning Difficulties Service .
Some students receive study support as part of a reasonable adjustment agreement.
Sometimes this support is referred to ‘non-medical help’, which is a term that is particularly used in the Disabled Students’ Allowances (DSAs) process.
Types of study support could include:
University staff or a separate external supplier may be your provider of ‘non-medical help’.
You can find out who delivers your study support by checking one of the following:
If in doubt speak to a Disability Adviser.
The University’s position on the delivery of study support (or non-medical help) on campus
The campus is open and whilst we want to offer you a full campus experience, we also want to offer you flexibility.
If there is a disability-related reason that support cannot be delivered remotely, please contact a disability adviser to discuss your needs and explore alternative arrangements, such as face-to-face on campus support.
You can telephone 01473 338833 to make an appointment or email: studentsupport@uos.ac.uk
The University may need to undertake a further risk assessment or identify adjustments with your course team.
What happens if I receive services from an external DSA supplier?
Your external supplier will contact you to explain how they intend to deliver support over the academic year.
The University does not have control over the decisions or processes of external suppliers.
If you have a query or concern, please raise this directly with your supplier.
If you feel unable to do this, you can also speak to a Disability Adviser for information and advice.
We would like to remind you of our online support services and advice for keeping well and ways to connect with others:
Mental Health Foundation
If you want to explore and learn more about strategies for wellbeing, check out our Wisdom App , your guide to health and mental wellbeing.
Our Student Assistance Programme (SAP) offers 24/7 counselling helpline for in the moment support from trained counsellors and other practitioners; the support also includes: legal, debt and tenancy advice, supported access to SilverCloud Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT) Programmes, services offered in multiple languages and out of country support.
If you are in need of urgent medical or mental health support , please contact emergency services by dialling 999 or call NHS 111.
If you have urgent accommodation needs, see information about emergency accommodation and how to contact your local borough council.
You can also:
Chantalle joined the University at its inception in 2007, and now works as Director of Student Life.
Izabela is the Head of Student Administration

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/library-and-learning-services:
The Department of Library and Learning Services is at the heart of the academic journey for all University of Suffolk staff, students and researchers.
We work in conjunction with course teams and other professional services colleagues across the institution to ensure your time at Suffolk is as successful as possible.
Click here to visit the library website .
Each course has a dedicated Librarian and Academic Skills Adviser to help you in your studies.
You can access the support through workshops, booked appointments or a growing range of online tutorials and guides.
Lauren is the Head of Library and Student Services at the University of Suffolk.
Steph is a Learning and Teaching Librarian.
Rebecca is a Learning and Teaching Librarian.
Graham is Head of Library and Learning Services and has worked in teaching and education for 30 years.
David is Research Repository and OA Compliance Manager in Learning Services.
Sarah is an Academic Skills Advisor and joined the University of Suffolk in 2022.
Carmen is an Academic Skills Advisor and is passionate about providing students with the appropriate tools to reach their potential and succeed academically.
Chrissie is an Academic Skills Advisor.
Mark is an Academic Skills Advisor.
Caroline is an Academic Skills Advisor and has extensive experience of teaching English as a Foreign language in the UK and overseas.
The Directorate for Learning and Teaching brings together the Centre for Excellence in Learning and Teaching (CELT) and the Department of Library and Learning Services.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/applicant-area:
Thank you for applying to the University of Suffolk and welcome to the Applicant Area.
This page is here to support you throughout your application journey, right up until you arrive.
You can track your application find out what happens to your application, access all the information you’ll need to make an informed choice about your future studies and get prepared for Welcome Week and your first day.
The Applicant Area ensures you're fully prepared for life at Suffolk.
Stay connected, and make the most of the resources available as you embark on this exciting new chapter.
Log in below to find out the most up to date status of your application, access your Admissions communication history and respond to invitations to interview or offers made.
At the sign-in prompt, enter username@uos.ac.uk (your username and password can be found in your application acknowledgement email).

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/accommodation:
Going to university may be the first time you have lived away from home or you might be new to the area.
You may be feeling a little nervous and unsure of what you should consider when thinking about your accommodation needs.
It is natural to be nervous about taking this step and the Student Centre is here to help.
This section contains a lot of useful information to help you decide what you want from your accommodation, what you can afford and how to go about booking your chosen room.
At the University of Suffolk we will not tell you where to live; that choice is yours.
To help you make an informed decision about where you wish to live, we can provide you with details about accommodation we recommend.
We can also provide you with information about tenancy agreements and other factors that may influence your choice.
Students starting a course in September are advised to apply for accommodation before the end of June if they wish to live in on-campus halls of residence.
If this property has been filled, we can advise about a range of accredited off-campus accommodation, all within easy walking distance of the campus and local amenities.
International students intending to study at the University of Suffolk will be required to live within a 70-mile radius of our Ipswich campus to ensure attendance at classes as stipulated by your Student visa requirements.
Athena Hall is the on-campus halls of residence at the Ipswich campus, just a stones throw away from the Waterfront Building.
View our range of accredited alternatives to on-campus living — perfect if you are working within a budget or looking for a property with specific characteristics.
Find out more about accommodation options for London Centre students, including rental advice, useful information and handy links.
Whether you're thinking of living in on-campus or off-campus accommodation, our go-to guide will help you make the right choice.
We've answered your frequently asked questions about our accommodation options.
We've partnered with UniKitOut who provide bespoke student packages to furnish your new home.
All the key terms you'll need to know explained.
Use this information to help make an informed decision about which accommodation is right for you.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/careers-employability-and-enterprise:
The University of Suffolk places your future at the heart of your degree, with employability, enterprise and entrepreneurship embedded across the curriculum to ensure you become a graduate that is ready for your future, and the variety of paths it is likely to take.
The award-winning Careers, Employability and Enterprise Team are here to help you, University of Suffolk students, explore, develop and shape your futures.
To do this, we offer a wide variety of initiatives and activities for you to get involved with from the moment you start your degree with us, and work with a wide variety of organisations and University of Suffolk graduates.
We also give you access to FutureMe and Handshake, your 24/7, online, career development hubs, from day one.
To learn more about what we offer, see our range of services below, get in touch or come and meet us on campus in the Enterprise and Careers Zone, located in L0.02, in the Library Building.
We are open 9am - 5pm, Monday to Friday.
If you’re an organisation wanting to connect with our students and graduates, and wondering what the options are, you can find out more about working with us .
And a quick reminder - graduates who complete a course at the University of Suffolk will be invited to take part in the Graduate Outcomes Survey 15 months after graduation.
Find out more about why you should get involved.
The Micro-Placement scheme offers paid opportunities that will enable you to take on real responsibility by working on live projects, or with services and facilities delivered within the University.
Are you an organisation wanting to connect with our students and graduates?
Want to boost your employability, but seeking financial support?
Find out more about our available bursaries.
We offer targeted support for our students, and we are committed to providing equality of opportunity for all.
Find or upload your next opportunity here.
The University of Suffolk has developed eight Graduate Attributes that underpin our degree programs.
These attributes, created in close collaboration with industry, are intended to prepare our graduates for successful careers.
Manager in the Futures Team, Vicki leads on the team's work in delivering careers, employability, placement, and work-based learning activities.
Enterprise and Entrepreneurship Manager Amy supports students and graduates starting their own businesses, pursue freelance opportunities and explore options.
Anna is an Employability and Careers Consultant specialising in support for students from underrepresented groups, international and postgrad research students.
Employability and Careers Consultant Darrin is a QCD Level 7 qualified careers advisor, and a Registered Career Leader (RCL).
Laura is an Employability and Careers Consultant, working with the School of Health, Sciences and Society.
Employability and Careers Consultant in the School of Technology, Business and Arts, Sonia runs curriculum-based sessions, workshops, and career coaching.
Work-Integrated Learning Consultant Alanna works with Social Science and Humanities students supporting them with embedded placements and Sandwich years.
Work-Integrated Learning Consultant Cathy builds connections between students, academics and organisations
Placement Consultant Tom has a background teaching Key Stage 2 and leadership as a SENDCo and Assistant Headteacher in schools before joining the University.
Data and Systems Officer Hayden works in the Careers, Employability and Enterprise Team, analysing all the data in regards to engagement and feedback.
Hannah joined the Enterprise and Entrepreneurship team at University of Suffolk in January 2023.
Hazel joined the University of Suffolk in July 2023.
She is responsible for coordinating marketing and comms for the Careers, Employability and Enterprise team.
Any questions?
Get in touch with the team today.
Find a wide selection of useful resources to help you move forward.
Graduates can still access our support.
Find out more here.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/visit-us:
Our Open Days are a great way to get a taste of student life, explore our waterfront campus in Ipswich, view the accommodation, join subject talks with academic staff and chat to our students.
The events are structured to allow you plenty of opportunity to speak individually with academics from your subject of choice, tour our beautiful waterfront campus, view the excellent specialist facilities we have available, and explore the fantastic support available to you throughout your studies.
We are committed to ensuring accessibility for all, and we proudly partner with AccessAble to provide comprehensive access guides.
These guides offer detailed information on the accessibility features of each building.
Whether you're a student, staff member, or visitor, you can plan your visit with confidence, knowing that our campus is equipped to meet diverse needs.
Explore our incredible waterfront campus from the comfort of your own home with our virtual tour.
View our other upcoming events, including conferences, open lectures and community engagements.
Book one of our campus tours at a time suitable for you.
Unibuddy connects prospective students with our student ambassadors and academic staff members.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/funding-your-studies:
Our courses are built with employability in mind, giving you confidence that the investment you make at University of Suffolk is your best route to a successful future.
You can find all the information on fees and financial support available to you here, whether you are a full-time or part-time, undergraduate or postgraduate, home or international student.
The University of Suffolk continues to deliver high quality teaching and learning, creating and sustaining innovative initiatives in widening participation, improving support and facilities for our students, and building employability into the degree courses that we offer.
Take a look at our overview of undergraduate loans and grants or select an option below for more information about the student finance options available to you.
If you are a current student, please visit the Fees and Finance pages.
Take a look at the finance and funding options available for full- and part-time UK undergraduates.
Thinking of postgraduate study?
Find out about the student finance options available.
Explore the student finance options available to international and EU students.
Our Additional Support section provides more details on support for your student journey
The University has partnered with Blackbullion, a learning platform designed to help you develop essential money skills for life, to provide free learning content for all students.
Studying a healthcare course?
Take a look at the additional funding available.
Managing a budget as a student can be difficult but two of our students have shared lots of hints and tips on making your money go further.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/fees-and-scholarships:
We understand that making a choice about how to finance your education in the UK is a big decision.
The University of Suffolk offers competitive tuition fees and a number of scholarships designed to support your academic aspirations.
Our Ipswich Campus is only an hour away from London and Cambridge, making the University of Suffolk a great location for any international student looking for a thriving town that won't break the bank.
For those studying at our London Centre in Southwark, you'll benefit from being in the heart of the capital while still enjoying access to the same academic and financial support.
As one of the top ten universities in the UK for our facilities and career prospects in the WhatUni Student Choice Awards 2023, you'll be getting a high-quality education at an affordable price.
International students can apply for a payment plan that allows annual tuition fees to be paid over two instalments.
Further information is available in our Tuition Fee Policy
Please check your course page for the latest tuition fees for your chosen year of study.
Find your course
The University of Suffolk Vice-Chancellor's Excellence in Health Scholarship is a new and exciting scheme to reward exceptional international applicants who have a strong track record of academic achievement and show a commitment to having a transformative impact both during their studies and after graduation.
This scheme is aimed at students intending to pursue one of our eligible professional health degrees.
We will be awarding fifty (50) Vice-Chancellor’s Excellence in Health Scholarships of £4,000 value each in the 2025/26 academic year.
Important information
For further information, please review the full terms and conditions of this scholarship scheme below:
Vice-Chancellor's Excellence in Health Scholarship [2025-26] Terms & Conditions
If you have any questions, please contact us .
The University of Suffolk International Merit Scholarship (2025/26) is a scheme designed to reward international students who meet or exceed our published entry requirements (based on the country where you obtained your qualifications).
The scheme is open to applicants of undergraduate and postgraduate-taught programmes delivered by the University of Suffolk at the Ipswich campus or the London Centre.
The awards are £1,000 - £3,000 based on your academic achievements and level of study.
International Merit Scholarship [2025-6] - Terms & Conditions
External Scholarships
"One thing I love about the University of Suffolk is that support is always available, you just need to ask."
We have a choice of accommodation options available to you, to fit your budget and needs.
Wherever you choose to live on campus or off, in shared or private accommodation, you'll feel at home from the moment you arrive.
Can't find what you are looking for or just want to find out further information, complete our enquirer form and get the answers you need.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/funding-your-studies/additional-support:
In addition to the financial support available from Student Finance England, there is further information and guidance available to those starting their student journey.
When you become a student your entitlement to any benefits and/or universal credit may change.
If you are already in receipt of any of these you must notify them of your change in circumstance as soon as possible.
Ipswich and many of the surrounding areas are now fully rolled out on to the Universal Credit system.
Any new application for support will be through Universal Credit.
Most students are ineligible to apply for benefit support whilst they are full-time students.
There are however some exceptions to this, those with dependent children and those with a disability for example.
Your student funding will be counted as an income and will be used to adjust your award entitlement.
Your annual funding figure will be split between the number of monthly assessment periods within your academic year of study.
For most courses, this is usually 10 assessment periods (this does vary).
There is an initial amount of your funding which cannot be counted by DWP as income and therefore will be disregarded each month.
In addition to this, any grants or special support elements cannot be counted as income and will not affect your entitlement.
During the long holiday period, your Universal Credit entitlement may increase as your student funding is intended to cover your academic year only.
For further information and support in regards to benefits and Universal Credit, take a look at the Goverment Universal Credit pages or speak to Citizen’s Advice .
Income Tax
Unsure if you should be paying tax as a student?
Take a look at the government advice for concise and useful information and frequently asked questions.
Council Tax
For the most up to date information please visit the gov.uk council tax website.
If you’re 18 or over and own or rent a home you will usually have to pay Council Tax.
A full Council Tax bill is based on at least 2 adults living in a home.
As a full-time student you are exempt from Council Tax liability.
You’ll get a Council Tax bill if there’s someone in your household who’s not a full-time student, but your household might still qualify for a discount.
If there is only 1 other adult in the household they will be entitled to receive a 25% discount.
You will not have to pay any Council Tax if everyone in your home, including you, is a full-time student.
To apply for a Council Tax exemption, you will need to speak to your local council.
You can access this at the gov.uk council tax discount web page.
You may need a confirmation of student status letter to provide to your council.
You will receive an email to your student account, once you have enrolled on your course, to set up a Gradintelligence account which you can then access via OASIS.
Within Gradintelligence you can obtain a letter confirming your student status; if you are eligible for council tax exemption this will also be included in the same letter.
You can share this letter by secure link with any third parties that need to see it, such as the council, your landlord or to set up a student bank account.
For advice and guidance on issues such as rent and council tax arrears, debt, benefits and Universal Credit and family issues you can speak to your local Citizens Advice Bureau.
If you are estranged from your family or have recently become estranged you may be wondering where to turn for support.
The Standalone web page offers support and information for student’s who find themselves in this situation.
If you need support in applying for your student finance funding as an estranged or independent student then please speak to the Student Centre in the first instance
There is also information and guidance available through the UCAS website.
Many charities offer non-repayable grants which can be based on where you live, your age, gender, past or current jobs, health conditions and/or nationality.
The organisation Turn2us have a grants search on their website.
You can search and apply through them.
Please contact the Student Centre and Admissions for information on latest bursary offers or take a look at the Bursary and Scholarships page.
Please be aware that a number of students in the UK have been targeted by fraudsters, and coerced into money laundering through their bank accounts.
Majority of these students may not have been aware that operating their bank accounts in this manner can be potentially illegal, but it could have a big impact on their future.
If caught bank accounts may be closed, there would be difficulty obtaining any credit such as phone contracts, loans, credit cards and even tenancy agreements and there is always the risk of going to prison.
Always remember – If it is too good to be true, it probably is!
What to look out for
You could be approached in any way - online, in person or by phone for example.
It could be what looks like a genuine job advert, but if it involves receiving large amounts of money into your bank account – be wary.
If you want more information on what to look out for, take a look at Don’t be Fooled.
What to do and where to go
If you think you could have been a victim of fraud, we would encourage anyone who is concerned that their bank account may have been misused to speak either to Student Services or your Students' Union (once enrolled as a student) and/or your bank account provider, directly to the police or speak to Action Fraud.
If you have children or have an adult that depends on you financially, you may be able eligible to apply for other grants.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/funding-your-studies/blackbullion:
Blackbullion is a learning platform designed to help you develop essential money skills for life.
The university has partnered with them to provide access to their learning content for free to all students.
They have partnered with universities in the UK, Australia, and New Zealand to give students financial education for free.
From budget calculators to student loan repayment estimator, there is something for everyone to learn.
Blackbullion isn't just for students and applicants - parents and guardians can also access the 'Money Ready For Uni' parent pathway.
Register here using the code SuffolkReady.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international:
The University of Suffolk is a modern university on the rise, continuing to climb the league tables year after year.
Discover our full range of courses starting this January, and take the next step toward your future.
"I chose the University of Suffolk because of their innovative teaching, the block and blend approach means you can get a greater understanding of each module and the subject area."
Find country-specific information, including academic entry requirements for your country.
Whether you are looking to stay on campus or off, in shared or private accommodation check out our recommended accommodation options.
The University of Suffolk is world-class and committed to our region.
We are proudly modern and innovative and we believe in transformative education.
We are on the rise with a focus on student satisfaction, graduate prospects, spending on academic services and student facilities.
in the East of England for graduate prospects
in the UK for spend on academic services
for career prospects in the UK
Get to know your international team.
Join us for one of our online sessions, a one-to-one meeting, or a fair either online or in your country.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/interact-with-us:
Explore various ways to interact with us and get all the information you need about international study at the University of Suffolk.
Meet with us in your country at an education fair, take part in an online taster session with academic staff or attend a webinar with experts from across our University.
Have a more specific question?
Get in touch with our International team and get the answers you need.
Engage us at a future event.
Head to our international event listing to see all of our upcoming overseas and online events.
We welcome guest speakers from across the University to tell us more about their programmes and life as a student in the UK.
Take a look at our up-coming sessions below, as well as previous sessions you can watch on-demand.
Course Leader and Senior Lecturer Dr Ross Kemble talks us through the key elements of our International MBA programme.
Watch here >
Dr Chris Lewington, Lecturer and Course Leader, shares all there is to know about the MSc in Applied Cyber Security.
Join Course Leader Dr Felix Ngobigha as he explains all about the new MSc in Computer Science from course content to post-study opportunities for international students.
Hear all about the Data Science and Artificial Intelligence master's programme from Course Leader and Lecturer Dr Adnane Ez-zizi, as he talks us through the need-to-know information about this conversion course.
Course Leader and Senior Lecturer Dr Ross Kemble talks us through the key elements of the MSc International Business and Management programme.
Learn all about MSc Strategic People Management from Dr Adetola Adekunle as she explains the content, industry links and professional development opportunities for international students joining this programme.
Dr Ross Kemble joins us to take us through the details of the Suffolk Executive MBA.
Student Life Advisor and Accommodation Specialist Jennie Dunn tells all about the accommodation options in the local area, and 2 of our student ambassadors share their experience of finding and living in housing both on and off campus.
Watch here
We're joined by Employability and Careers Consultant Anna Flatt to learn more about the ways the Careers, Employability and Enterprise service can support you to boost your employability, gain more experience or even set up your own business.
We also hear from two international students on how they have benefitted from our careers support services.
A group of international students from the University of Suffolk answer all your questions from studying at the university to finding work and socialising in the local area.
Mike is the Associate Director of International
Senior International Marketing Officer
Senior International Officer – Asia (ex.
India)
Senior International Officer – Africa
Jemma is a Study Abroad Advisor in Academic Partnerships.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/how-to-apply:
From submitting your application, through to when you arrive, we’re here to help you every step of the way.
The University of Suffolk offers a range of undergraduate and postgraduate courses in a number of subject areas.
Choose from the options below to find out more about how to apply for your chosen course.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/entry-requirements:
The University of Suffolk welcomes applications from students based all over the world, creating a diverse and immersive student experience.
Find your region below and discover information specific to where you're from including entry requirements, English language requirements, events, useful contacts, and more.
Can't see your region below?
No problem, just contact the International Team and we'll be happy to help.
We accept a range of English language tests.
Check here to learn how we assess English language and for a list of tests that we accept.
"Throughout my course at the University of Suffolk, I have been fortunate to receive a number of opportunities that have greatly contributed to my career goals."

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/visas-and-immigration:
Key information about applying for your visa and joining the University of Suffolk as an international Student.
We welcome students from across the globe to the University of Suffolk, creating a rich and diverse student community.
We have staff across various teams to support your journey from application to enrolment, and ensure you arrive safely in Suffolk (or to our London campus), ready to learn.
As an international student, you will likely require a student visa to study in the UK.
The Student Route visa applies to students wishing to study for more than six months in the UK.
We recommend you review the information on the Home Office website regularly to keep up-to-date with changes to UK immigration law and guidance.
We have gathered useful information below regarding the process and contact details for the teams who will support you through the admission process.
Admissions
Our Admissions Officers will support you from your initial application through to issuing your CAS.
(They also look after our London Centre students).
International Advice
Our International Advice team will support you once you have your CAS.
They are based on-campus in Suffolk (they also look after our London Centre students) and here to help with your arrival in the UK and throughout your entire student journey.
The Points Based System (PBS) is the UK system for managing migration for non-UK nationals who wish to enter the UK for work or study purposes.
If you are 17 years old or above and intend to study for a full-time or part-time undergraduate or postgraduate programme at the University of Suffolk, you must apply for an adult Student visa.
The application form is available on the UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) website.
You are required to score 70 points to make a Student Route visa application.
The points will be based on the following:
Points type
Relevant requirements to be met
Points
Study (must meet all)
• Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies requirement • Course requirement • Approved qualification requirement • Level of study requirement • Place of study requirement
50
Financial
Financial requirement
10
Language
Language requirement
You may find the following websites useful:
Any student who applies either from within the UK or overseas to study in the UK under the Student Route of the Points Based System must hold a Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) from their prospective sponsor (the University).
Visit our CAS page to find out what a CAS is and how to secure one.
When you are applying from outside of the UK, you are not permitted to apply for a visa until six months before your course start date.
Visit the UK Government website for a full overview on student visas.
The UKVI try to issue visas within three weeks of a visa appointment at an application centre, however at peak periods it can take longer.
We encourage you to book a Premium Service visa appointment (i.e.
Priority or Super Priority) when completing your online visa application to ensure that you receive the fastest possible outcome on your application.
You will only be permitted to enter the UK up to one month before the official start date for your course of study, as per your CAS statement.
If you currently hold a Student visa and are starting a course at the University of Suffolk, you will not be able to start your course until you have applied for a Student visa for the University of Suffolk.
You can apply for a Student Route visa if there are 28 days or less between the expiry of your existing Student visa and the start of your new course.
If there are more than 28 days, you will need to return to your home country to make your Student visa application.
As part of your immigration application (if you are applying to stay in the UK for more than six months), you will need to pay the Immigration Health Surcharge (IHS).
This is an additional fee which entitles you to free hospital treatment under the National Health Service (NHS).
You will need to complete the online application form.
You must include the following documents to support your application:
a) Bank statements covering a 28 day period (remember if you are using parents bank statements you must also provide your birth certificate and a letter from them confirming that they are your parents and that they consent to you using their money to study in the UK); and/or
b) Scholarship letter (if applicable); and/or
c) Receipts for tuition fees and/or accommodation (if paid)
You must provide specified documents with your application as the UKVI will not use any evidence sent in after they have made a decision.
Furthermore, the UKVI will not contact you if you do not send the correct documents.
If you fail to send the correct documents your visa may be refused.
Credibility interviews are part of the Student Route visa application process and are used by the Home Office to ensure that your reasons for studying in the UK are genuine.
Failure to attend a credibility interview without a reasonable explanation being given will result in your visa being refused.
How does it work?
All interviews will be conducted in English.
Your interview may last between 15-60 minutes and a further interview may be required if more information is needed, or to verify something that you have previously said.
Once completed, you should request a copy of the interview transcript so that you can keep a record of what you said during the interview.
The report of the interview is then sent to the Entry Clearance Officer who will consider it alongside your visa application and supporting documents.
Questions you may be asked
These are some typical questions that you may be asked during your Credibility Interview.
Please note there are no set questions, and you may be asked additional questions not covered below.
Q: Why do you want to study in the UK?
Q: Why did you choose the University of Suffolk?
Q: Have you researched courses provided by other institutions?
Q: Why did you choose your course?
Q: How is your course assessed?
Q: What have you studied previously?
Q: You have previously studied in the UK - why have you chosen to return?
Q: How will you fund your studies?
Q: Do you know what accommodation is available at the university?
Q: Is there a distance between the accommodation and your place of study?
Q: How does the course fit into your career plans?
Q: What are your plans after you have graduated?
The interviewer will also be checking your ability to converse in English.
If there is any issue with hearing them clearly e.g.
the video call connection is poor, you should let the interviewer know immediately so they know that it is a technical issue and not that you are unable to understand them.
Top Tips :
Try to remain calm and answer the questions in full and as naturally as you can.
Some of the questions will be designed to check your English language skills.
This is your opportunity to show that you have thoroughly researched the University of Suffolk and your course and have thought about how studying here will help you meet your career goals.
It is important to provide detailed answers where possible.
The Entry Clearance Officer will be able to compare your answers with the financial and employment information that you declared on your application form.
They may also consider your family circumstances and any supporting documents you have provided.
How you prove your immigration status in the UK is changing.
The Home Office is replacing physical immigration documents with digital proof of immigration status.
What is an eVisa?
The UKVI is replacing physical documents with an online record of immigration status called an eVisa.
eVisas will replace:
If you are using one of the above documents to prove your immigration status, you will need to visit www.gov.uk/evisa to find out what action you need to take to prove your immigration status digitally.
The action you need to take will depend on the type of physical immigration permission you hold.
Updating from a physical document to an eVisa does not affect your immigration status or conditions attached to this.
If you have been issued with a BRP, you should still collect this and use it until its expiry date.
Those under the EU settlement scheme (EU pre-settled or EU settled status) and those who used the ID Check app will already be using an eVisa to prove immigration status.
An essential element to proving your immigration status digitally is to create a UKVI account.
Official updates on the eVisa rollout can be found on the Government webpage .
You can subscribe to the page to receive the latest updates.
The Home Office explains what an eVisa is in this short video .
Creating an account
You will need to create a UKVI account to access your eVisa before your physical immigration document expires.
For those with a BRP, this will likely be 31 December 2024.
However, you should create an account and access your eVisa as soon as possible and well before the expiry date, especially if you intend to travel soon.
To create a free account, visit the official Government webpage or refer to your grant email or letter, which will explain the process of creating a UKVI account.
The Home Office have created a short video about how to set up an account.
If you are not sure whether you already have a UKVI account and eVisa, you can either check on GOV.UK or refer to your original grant email or letter.
Once you have created your account, you should check and update your passport and contact details.
See more information in the ‘keeping details up to date’ section on this webpage.
Once you have a UKVI account, you can share information about your immigration status and conditions using the view and prove service , which can generate a time-limited share code that you can provide to third parties.
A new share code can be generated whenever it is needed.
Share codes are valid for 90 days with no limit on the number of people who can use it.
When requested by the University of Suffolk, you will use your share code to prove your immigration status to us.
If you have an in-date physical immigration document, you should keep hold of this even after you have created a UKVI account and accessed your eVisa.
You should continue to travel with your physical document until its expiry date (see more information in the travelling section of this webpage).
Travelling
If you have an in-date physical immigration document, for example, a BRP, you should keep this and continue to carry this with you when you travel internationally until it expires.
You should always continue to travel with your physical passport or travel document.
Take a look at this short video from the Home Office explaining how to travel into the UK and internationally with an eVisa.
Keeping details up to date
The passport or travel document you use to travel must be registered to your UKVI account, as your eVisa will be linked to this.
You must ensure your UKVI account is kept up to date with your latest contact information and passport or travel document.
Failure to keep your details up to date will result in complications and delays at the border when you travel.
Use the ‘Update my details’ service to update your details.
You will need to update your details if you change your passport.
You should update your details in good time before travelling, as it can take some time for the UKVI to approve the change.
You will not be able to change your details if you are awaiting the outcome of a visa application.
If you have questions about eVisas, please contact our International Advice team .
A: The Student Route visa applies to students wishing to study for more than six months in the UK.
If you already hold a UK visa, please check the terms and expiry date to determine whether it would be valid for study.
If you are unsure whether you require a visa to study in the UK, use the UKVI’s online checker.
A: Under the current UK visa regulations, students are not permitted to bring dependants on their student visa.
This rule does not apply to PhD or other doctorate students (RQF Level 8) or research-based higher degree students.
Please find full details on the UK Government website.
A: You will be invited to pay your CAS deposit once you have firmly accepted an unconditional offer.
You must make a minimum deposit of £5,000 and can pay up to your full first year’s tuition fee.
CAS deposits must be made using Flywire – a payment link will be sent to you at the appropriate time.
A: Applicants holding an unconditional firm offer will be invited to join CAS Shield via email.
Through CAS Shield, you can book your Pre-CAS Interview, upload all relevant documents and go through the CAS sponsorship process.
Once the Admissions team are satisfied that they have received all relevant information, they will issue your CAS.
Your CAS can only be issued within six months of your course start date.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/getting-ready-to-study:
Everything you need to know about getting started at the University of Suffolk
The University of Suffolk would like to extend a very warm welcome to all of our students who will be travelling from overseas.
We understand that this may be a daunting experience for some, and for many of you, it will be your first time coming to the UK.
To help you settle in we have put together some information that will smooth the transition.
We will be updating this page regularly, so check back to keep up-to-date.
Our pre-arrival guide contains lots of information about coming to the UK to live and study.
Please make sure you read through this when you are planning your travel to the University of Suffolk.
You've obtained your CAS, you know what you want to bring with you to the UK, and you're ready to start studying.
If you haven't yet made your accommodation arrangements, our Student Centre is here to help.
We can provide information about recommended accommodation options in Ipswich to ensure you find the perfect place to stay during your studies at the University of Suffolk.
International students intending to study at the University of Suffolk will be required to live within a 70-mile radius of the campus where you will study (Ipswich or London) to ensure attendance at classes as stipulated by your Student visa requirements.
Our accommodation

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/research-and-knowledge-exchange:
The University of Suffolk is very proud to be home to a vibrant and dynamic research and knowledge exchange community with a range of specialist academic expertise.
Our current research and knowledge exchange priorities focus on our areas of distinctiveness:
Health and Wellbeing
Sustainability
Digital Futures
Crime and Social Justice
Culture and Heritage
Excellence in Education
In a rapidly changing and increasingly globalised world, our research and knowledge exchange is agile, responsive, collaborative, and grounded in robust scientific and ethical approaches.
Supported by our Research Institutes and Centres, research and knowledge exchange at the University of Suffolk:
Significantly contributes to scientific, medical and technological innovation and solutions;
Evidences and informs key policy debates and developments; and
Actively challenges social injustice and inequality.
As a student-centred university, all our undergraduate and postgraduate courses are underpinned by high-quality applied, professional, and practice-led research.
We have a thriving multi-disciplinary Doctoral College, which works collaboratively with our four academic schools and offers a range of new opportunities for PhD study supported by senior academics.
The University of Suffolk’s vision is to be a strong community impact university.
We are very proud that our research and knowledge exchange is having significant impact on the economic, cultural and educational lives of the communities we serve regionally, nationally and internationally.
Further information can be found on the Transforming Lives: University of Suffolk Strategy for Research Excellence 2023–2030
Our Visiting Academics contribute to advancing research, knowledge exchange, and the academic community.
With significant expertise at regional, national, or international levels, they contribute by delivering guest lectures, keynotes, supervising PGR students, collaborating on research, and sharing knowledge.
They are appointed to the relevant Research Institute within the Research and Knowledge Exchange Directorate.
The University's support team for research and knowledge exchange activities.
The University of Suffolk has at the heart of its mission, a responsibility to be a model for a new type of civic university.
Professor Emma Bond is Pro Vice-Chancellor Research and Knowledge Exchange and Professor of Socio-Technical Research at the University of Suffolk.
Sue is responsible for all research engagement activities and research governance within the Research Directorate.
Andreea is Head of Research Culture and Knowledge Exchange.
Stephen is the Associate Director for Research and Knowledge Exchange (Funding and Contracts) within the Research and Knowledge Exchange Office.
Sam supports the Research Directorate (RD) as the Research Systems Administrator and joined in April 2023.
Lucy supports the Research and Knowledge Exchange Directorate by providing administrative support for the Research Institutes and the Head of Research Culture.
India is responsible for identifying and driving knowledge exchange activities, generating income, and developing lasting partnerships.
Kerri is our newly appointed Postgraduate Research Academic Coordinator, working within the Suffolk Doctoral College in the Research Directorate team.
Kay is the Head of Research Degree Awarding Powers and REF2029, leading the University towards achieving Research Degree Awarding Powers.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/research-and-knowledge-exchange/research-institutes:
Our Research Institutes represent both our current strengths and future areas of opportunity.
The Institutes have close links with professional organisations and other research institutions, as well as Visiting Academics , facilitating collaboration and maximising the output and impact of their research.
Within the sections below, you can visit each Research Institute for overviews and contact details, and discover links through to projects, publications and staff details.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/research-and-knowledge-exchange/research-interests:
The University of Suffolk is very proud to be home to a vibrant and dynamic research community with a wide range of internationally recognised expertise.
As evidenced by the excellent outcome from our REF2021 submission, we have successfully made a very real and positive impact on the wider community through engaging policy makers and wider stakeholders and the public in our research.
This is essential for achieving our highly impactful research strategy.
Working effectively with the media enables our professoriate and leading academic staff to share their expert knowledge on important issues, get research evidence into political debate, policy decisions and public conversations and highlights the important work our researchers are undertaking here in Suffolk.
Our current research priorities focus on our areas of distinctiveness, as they are reflected in the University of Suffolk Research Interests brochure.
We are committed to sharing our knowledge, resources, and skills with the public, and to listening to and learning from the expertise and insight of the different communities with which we engage.
For any research related enquiries, please contact: researchoffice@uos.ac.uk
For any media related enquiries, please contact: press@uos.ac.uk
Online risk and vulnerable groups
Image-based abuse (sexting and revenge pornography) Online harassment
Domestic abuse and sexual abuse
Child Protection child sexual abuse and domestic violence
Social Work Education
Practice Learning, Practice Assessment and Fitness to Practice
Programme Evaluation
Critical social policy
Disability
PREVENT
Violence against women and girls (VAWG)
Vicarious trauma
Forensic psychology
Youth
Violent gangs Child exploitation Drugs
Alternative economies Youth justice
Race and disproportionality Community safety Community development
Child (human) development
Special needs and disabilities
Health
Social Sciences research methodology
Systematic Review methodology
Violence Against Women and Girls, including sexual violence and domestic abuse
Police officer learning, development and wellbeing
Veterans in the criminal justice system
Access and participation in the higher education system
Police and Prison Service
Theoretical explorations focusing on subjectivity, constructions of the body
Reproductive politics to methodological
Ethical issues of data management of qualitative data
Race
Ethnicity
Migration
Racism and xenophobia
Conviviality and gender
Asylum and refugees including separated and unaccompanied young people
Young migrants undocumented migrants
Young people’s experiences of education in rural Suffolk Sexual health and young people
Human rights
Social media
US law, other possible areas of law
Child protection and child welfare
Alternative care
Care transitions
Care reform and Deinstitutionalisation
Senior Research Fellows
Sexual/gender-based violence
The evolution of feminist ending violence movements Feminist and social epistemology
Philosophy of literature, mind, and the emotions
Trauma-informed research and practice
The intersection of neurodiversity and trauma
Technology-facilitated violence and abuse
Research Fellows
Law, feminism, and crime, centring on rape stereotype acceptance amongst those populations
Evidence-based recommendations for policy and practice in police interviewing, jury education, and courts’ use of rape stereotypes
Neurodiversity and gender-based violence
Technology-facilitated abuse
Sexual violence and justice
Wellbeing across the lifespan Youth justice
Youth unemployment
Revenge pornography Online abuse
Global security
State governance
Marginal actors
Political discourse
Ideology
Global childhoods
Childhood theories
Physical activity and sedentary behaviour Whole system approach
Workplace wellbeing
Influence of the environment on wellbeing Physiology
Interprofessional working
Clinical education and practice-based learning Values-based practice
Ethnographic research and work-based culture
Health Management
Psychology
Wellbeing
Rehabilitation
Outcome measurement in health and care
Models of care
Workforce
Cognitive behavioral therapy and coaching Cognitive behavioral couple therapy
Case formulation
Decision-making in professional practice and supervision in therapy and coaching
Sports science
Strength and conditioning
Gender studies
Intersectionality
Qualitative methodologies
Discourse analysis
Bernstein's pedagogical device and educational theories
Mental Health
Gender and Nursing
Nursing and Healthcare
Cancer
Practice development
Clinical education and practice-based learning
Air pollution, physical activity and public health
Gut microbiota and probiotics
Dietary fibre and bowel function
Dietary Factors in Functional bowel disorders, including IBS
Holistic and sustainable dietary interventions in Gut Health and Beyond
Stem cell biology
Regenerative medicine
Osteoarthritis
In vitro systems
Musculoskeletal cell biology
Women in STEM
Equal representation in science
Health Psychology
Exercise
Health Promotion and Health Literacy
Psychology Informed Medical Treatment
Psychophysiology of Health and Exercise
Anxiety Regulation, Heart Rate Variability Applications
Infection
Bacteriology
Cystic Fibrosis microbiology
Microbiology
Molecular Biology
Genomics
Pseudomonas
Performance in football
Predictive modelling
Discrimination in sport
Sports economics
Ethnomethodology
Conversation analysis
Membership categorization analysis
Physical activity
Health and wellbeing
Whole systems approach
Exercise recovery and adherence
Neurosensory sciences
Improve retinal assessments for children with rare metabolic conditions
Sports and exercise science Sport psychology
The impact of the environment, social networks, and socioeconomic factors on human behaviour and happiness
Sports and exercise science
Sport psychology
Alternative energy systems
Sustainable construction through alternative material use
Natural resource management including resource efficiency
Research Interests
Housing provision policy
Almshouses housing
Urban climate change as it impacts community/resilience
Architectural education
Resilience and ageing
Wildlife distributions and behavioural ecology, especially in the Amazon Rainforest
Interaction of the built environment and culture
Architecture
Sustainable and inclusive cities
Urban redevelopment
Bioplastics
Biotechnology
Fermentation
Sustainable Bioprocessing
Water quality
Environmental data science and digital innovation
Water and air quality monitoring systems
Smart infrastructure and connected environments
Citizen science and participatory monitoring
Earth and environmental science
Wildlife
Ecology
Conservation Science
Impacts of human activity on endangered species
Artificial intelligence
Cyber Security
Data Analytics
Human Computer Interaction and Inclusive Design
Knowledge Management
Process Modelling and Engineering Change Management
Scanning Electron Microscopy
Software Engineering
Remote Sensing
Electromagnetic Scattering
Antenna Design
Human Vision
Information Theory
Quantum Mechanics
Pharmaceutical 3D printing
Advanced surface characterization (SEM, AFM, contact angle, profilometry) for pharmaceutical and biomedical materials
Cognitive Psychology
Applied Behavioural Psychology
Visual and Social Cognition and Attention
Theory of Mind and Perspective Taking
Social Engineering and Cybersecurity
Eye-Tracking
Virtual Reality in Education
Wellbeing in the Community
Phobia
Sleep
Vision science
Game development
Machine learning applications in healthcare, education and cyber security
Reinforcement learning
Natural language processing
Responsible AI
Cognitively inspired AI
Statistical methodology
Computational modelling of human behaviour
Ethics, bias, and the law in computer science
Data privacy
Social engineering
Cybersecurity
Electromagnetic wave propagation and scattering with applications on weather radars and remote sensing
Microwave and antenna theory
Wireless systems development
High-level digital design
Network modelling and simulations
Critical data, AI and digital practices in Higher Education
Digital Education
Open Education and Open Science Policy and Data Governance
Artificial Intelligence
Deep Learning
Natural Language Processing
Social Media Analytics
AIOps (DevOps applied to AI)
Computer Vision
Machine learning for Internet-of-Things
How data can be used to improve resilience, maximise accountability and trust, reduce inequalities
Machine Learning, Deep Learning (multimodal: text, images, video)
Digital Transformation
Digital Business
Business and Strategic Implications of Big Data, AI, Blockchain, Electronic Word of Mouth, and the Metaverse
Robotics
Evolutionary Programming
Computer Networks
Software development
Data science
Detection of violence in synthetic imagery
Image steganography and deblurring
Super resolution
Energy-efficient data aggregation
Wireless sensor networks
Cyber security
Cloud Computing and 5G cloud networks
Data communications
Cryptography
Malware analysis
Information and Communications
Technologies for Development
Mobile learning environments
Social Networks
Inclusive education
Learning support
Sensory processing difficulties
Sensory strategies
Holistic approaches to wellbeing and learning
Creative arts therapies and interventions, including art and dramatherapy
Post-colonial studies
Social class (re)production
Elite studies
International education
Dyslexia
Learning difficulties
Primary education
Childhood and youth studies Sociology and politics of childhood
Arts-based, participatory, and socially engaged methods International and comparative education
Educational histories and philosophies
Ethics and politics of education and research
Childhood studies
Children’s rights
Moral panics and digital technologies
Digital landscapes of contemporary childhood
Individual/institutional behaviour and policy-making
Work identity: individual/organisational
Leadership
Wicked Problems
Strategy
Health and Social Care
Neoliberalism and ideological entrenchment
Bureaucracy and post-bureaucracy
Organizational change (particularly in terms of projectification and the rise of co-working in the New Economy)
Émile Durkheim and collective effervescence
Ethnography, autoethnography and retrospective autoethnography
Discourse analysis, storytelling, polemic and narrative-based methodologies
Innovative pedagogies, particularly those related to neurodiversity
Consumer behaviour
Non-profit Organisation marketing
Entrepreneurship Digitalisation
Work identity: individual/Organisational
HRM/employee relations
Accounting and finance
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) reporting
Company analysis and valuation
Human Resources Management
Central and East European history and politics (e.g., Germany, Poland, Russia, Ukraine)
American history and politics (including elections, migration, refugees, citizenship (and comparative government policy towards such))
World War II history
Contemporary landscape photography and 18 th century
British landscape painting, specialising in Gainsborough and Constable
History and Heritage
Rural, agricultural, and environmental history since 1750 Crime and protest, field-sports, fish, and fisheries
Oral history and the impact of the Great War
Euclidean geometry in European thought and culture between 1350 and 1850
Religion, cartography, and madness in Renaissance culture
European libraries in colonial Latin America and the global spatial imagination
Intellectual history, the history of science, race and gender, the history of visual culture, digital humanities
How cultural value is constructed through visual works, curatorial practices and art institutions
Visual arts and creative practice-based research
Overlooked and obsolete aspects of daily life from collected reflections on individual experience
The idea of 'the institution' (In a global sense) and the effects of change and circumstance on these institutions
Viking-Age and medieval history and culture
Comparative and interdisciplinary approaches to law, legalism, self-regulation, normativity, transgression, and punishment
Personhood and identity in the past
Public and digital history, digital humanities, games, and gamification
The negotiation and involvement of people and place by artists
Adaptation studies
Children’s literature
Gothic horror, particularly in children’s/young-adult popular culture
Climate change and literature,
the novel,
children’s literature,
modern drama,
Shakespeare and adaptation,
the teenager in literature, and arts and activism
Accent and dialect analysis and documentation
Focus on varieties of the South
Early modern period through to the present
The development of warfare during the twentieth century
Warfare
The landscape and environment
Conflict
British fishing industry
Early Modern Literature
Theatre
Shakespeare
Radio dramatisation
Art History
North American and European Art of 20 th and 21 st century
Continental and Analytic Philosophy
Methodologies of art-historical writing
P rinting processes
Illustration techniques
Nonfiction picture books
Environmental awareness, conservation and the celebration of cultural diversity
Gothic and horror film and fiction and their socio-political work and contexts
Western film genre
Representation in contemporary television, film, and literature
Animation film studies

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/research-culture:
UKRI defines research culture as "the environment in which research happens, including the behaviours, expectations, attitudes, and values of our research communities." It emphasises that research culture affects everything from how research is conducted to how individuals and teams are supported and rewarded.
According to the Royal Society, research culture "encompasses the behaviours, values, expectations, attitudes, and practices that shape the conduct of research." They stress the importance of creating a research culture that promotes creativity, diversity, and inclusion, while fostering excellence and integrity.
Research England explains research culture as "the ecosystem within which research is conducted, which includes the structural, institutional, and personal factors that influence researchers and their work." It includes aspects such as research integrity, collaboration, funding practices, and the impact of research on society.
These definitions underscore that research culture is not just about the research itself, but also about the environment and the people involved, and how their actions and interactions shape the research process and its outcomes.
At the University of Suffolk, we foster a research culture that is creative and inclusive, ensuring that our practices enhance both the well-being of researchers and the quality of research.
We are dedicated to promoting equality and ensuring that all researchers feel supported, respected, and empowered to achieve their full potential.
This is an agreement between funders and employers of research staff to improve the employment and support of researchers and research careers in the UK higher education.
View Concordat
The University of Suffolk has become a signatory to the KE Concordat (KEC), confirming our commitment to knowledge exchange (KE) as an integral part of our institutional culture and mission.
This concordat makes a clear statement about the responsibilities of Researchers, Employers and Funders of research in maintaining high standards in research.
The University of Suffolk has held the European Commission HR Excellence in Research Award since 2017.
The University of Suffolk is dedicated to fair and responsible research assessment practices.
We are delighted to have achieved our institutional Bronze Athena Swan award and the University is committed to advancing gender equality.
The National Co-ordinating Centre (NCCPE) has recently awarded the University of Suffolk a Bronze Watermark award for Public Engagement.
Professor Horvath is a leading international researcher in the field of forensic psychology, specifically Violence Against Women and Girls (VAWG).
Professor Gladwell's research utilises biochemical, physiological, and psychological skills, with a passion for enhancing lifelong health.
Darryl Newport (Professor of Energy and Sustainable Development) is the Director of the Suffolk Sustainability Institute at the University of Suffolk, UK.
Amanda is an award-winning internationally published novelist, journalist and writer.
Professor Nicholas Caldwell is Professor of Information Systems Engineering at the University of Suffolk.
Noreen is Associate Dean for Research and Knowledge Exchange and has extensive experience in senior leadership and management nursing roles.
Nick Tucker is Associate Dean and lecturer for Biomedical Sciences and is a molecular microbiologist interested in the biology of Pseudomonas bacteria.
We are a dynamic and vibrant community dedicated to fostering the growth, development, and collaboration of early career researchers across all Schools and Research Institutes.
Our network provides an inclusive platform where emerging researchers can connect, share ideas, and explore opportunities for interdisciplinary collaboration.
Whether you're a postdoctoral researcher, a PhD candidate, or someone just beginning their research journey, we invite you to join our community and become part of a supportive and engaging environment.
At the University of Suffolk, our objectives for supporting Early Career Researchers (ECRs) include:
Our ECR Lunch Talk series is a unique platform for early career researchers, including PhDs, to come together, share their experiences, challenges, and perspectives, while also gaining insights from their peers and more experienced researchers in the field.
We aim to build a supportive community where ideas flourish, collaborations are born, and lasting connections are forged.
University of Suffolk Staff - For more information please visit the Hub intranet.
For any inquiries, please contact Andreea Tocca, Head of Research Culture, at a.tocca@uos.ac.uk.
We look forward to welcoming you into our vibrant community of early career researchers.
Embarking on a research and knowledge exchange journey requires dedication, curiosity, and a strong support network.
Our development programme is designed to offer a platform that not only enhances research and knowledge exchange skills but also fosters collaboration, strengthens academic communication, and provides opportunities for professional growth.
Throughout the programme, researchers will:
These workshops address the varied needs and challenges faced by academic professionals at different stages of their careers.
They equip participants with the tools, strategies, and insights needed to navigate the ever-changing research and knowledge exchange landscape with confidence.
We encourage all staff to take full advantage of the resources, networks, and opportunities available through the Research and Knowledge Exchange Development Programme; actively engage, ask questions, seek guidance, and share your experiences.
This journey is about both personal growth and enhancing the quality and impact of research at our university.
To learn more about the sessions, please view our event calendar (accessible to internal staff only).
University of Suffolk supports the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers and our researcher development programme is based on the national Researcher Development Framework .
The framework has been developed to provide the tools for individuals to map and plan their professional development as researchers.
Find out more about professional development for researchers
If you have any questions about the Researcher and Knowledge Exchange Development Programme, or need to organise specific training that is not covered by our programme, please contact the Head of Research Culture, Andreea Tocca, at a.tocca@uos.ac.uk
For more information about research at the University of Suffolk, or to discuss potential collaborations, please contact us.
Join us at the University of Suffolk, where research thrives, and innovation knows no bounds.
Together, we can shape the future and make a lasting impact on the world.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/research-culture/research-excellence-framework-ref:
The Research Excellence Framework (REF) is the UK’s system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions (HEIs).
The REF first took place in 2014 and 2021, and the next exercise is planned for 2029.
The University of Suffolk made its first submission to REF in 2021, and is currently preparing for a wider submission to REF 2029.
The main purposes of the REF are:
Established as a community impact institution in one of the UK’s higher education cold spots, the University of Suffolk incorporates the best university traditions, delivering high-quality higher education that’s fit for the 21st century of employment and entrepreneurship.
Over the last decade since gaining independent university status, we’ve built a distinctive, thriving academic community with incisive research that’s driving positive change across our region and beyond.
The principles of transparency, consistency, accountability, and inclusivity are at the centre of the processes we designed in preparation of our first REF submission, and our inclusive ethos underpinned our Code of Practice.
In addition to our excellent REF 2021 results , the University of Suffolk:
The University of Suffolk is proud to have made a first submission to the Research Excellence Framework (REF) in 2021 and to have received an outstanding outcome.
Planning for REF 2029
The University anticipates making a wider submission to REF 2029, reflecting our growth trajectory to date.
Our submission will be focused on our distinctive research and knowledge exchange portfolio, and will champion the work of our Research Institutes in the following discipline areas:

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/knowledge-exchange:
Knowledge Exchange (KE) refers to any action through which academic resources are shared between universities and partner organisations to make a positive impact in society and the economy.
Local businesses, public sector bodies, charities, and community groups are all potential partners for Knowledge Exchange.
Knowledge Exchange allows partners to benefit from academic expertise, specialist skills, technical facilities and other resources across our Academic Schools and Research Institutes.
We have seen many Knowledge Exchange initiatives draw on expertise across our academic schools to benefit a variety of local organisations and businesses.
Our recent success stories demonstrate how Knowledge Exchange with Suffolk can benefit our partners:
Suffolk Libraries had struggled to connect its customers with the most appropriate services due to the overwhelming volume of service and customer information available.
University of Suffolk Academics from our Technology, Business and Arts school developed AI techniques to link the emotional needs of potential end users with events and services available through Suffolk Libraries.
This was achieved through data classification and the implementation of a personalised recommendation algorithm.
As a result of this Knowledge Exchange collaboration, members of the community were easily connected to the events and services that benefitted them most.
Read the full article on our Open Access Repository .
Residents in the Woodbridge area had concerns about poor water quality of the River Deben and how much this is impacted by local Wastewater Treatment Works and agricultural run-off.
Of particular concern were the level of E-Coli and Phoshate, with residents keen to know if these were above safe levels.
University of Suffolk scientists from our Allied Health Sciences school collaborated with the Woodbridge-based Deben Climate Centre (DCC), a community organisation focussed on improving local ecology, practising citizen science.
DCC collected water samples from 25 locations on the River Deben for over 12 months.
University of Suffolk scientists then ran tests on the collected water samples and identified E-coli samples containing toxins which could be dangerous to human health.
The University of Suffolk also hosted the event for Deben Climate Centre where findings and methods were shared.
The findings of this project found antibiotic resistant bacteria in water samples and concluded that swimming in the sampled locations of the River Deben brought the risk of contracting pathogenic infection that would be difficult to treat with antibiotics.
This added weight to the campaign for Water Treatment Works to improve water quality and prompted warning notices placed in swimming holes and campsites, therefore having a tangible impact on the health and safety of residents and visitors to the area.
Watch the TV News Anglia coverage of the collaboration between Woodbridge Climate Action Group and the University of Suffolk to investigate water quality in the River Deben on YouTube [from 01:28 to end].
The Cancer Alliance found an identifiable gap in the training, education and support that Multi-Discipline Team (MDT) co-ordinators receive.
There was widespread agreement that MDTs have not been working as effectively as they might, highlighted in all three cancer strategies and by NHS England.
Lack of support and lack professional knowledge of how to best run such meetings were likely contributing to this.
Suffolk staff from the school of Nursing, Midwifery and Public Health collaborated with Cancer Alliance to present and run sessions for a training programme to upskill staff, increase their resilience and help them achieve optimum performance.
The University of Suffolk hosted the programme.
The programme was successful in fulfilling its objectives by providing participants with a greater understanding of their role and responsibility within the Multi-Discipline Team, and by providing them with tools to build on confidence and resilience.
Participants felt the course was run well, and wished it to be run as mandatory training.
Read more on the Cancer Alliance website .
Our guide to what is covered under Knowledge Exchange is the Knowledge Exchange Framework (KEF) .
This was developed by Research England in March 2021 as a way to measure the efficiency and effectiveness of knowledge exchange in universities across seven broad areas, known as ‘perspectives’.
It forms the third pillar of assessment of universities’ activities, alongside the Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF) and the Research Excellence Framework (REF).
KEF seeks to quantify and celebrate the many different ways universities in England interact with the wider world.
Universities are placed in clusters of institutions that have similar capabilities and resources available to them to engage in knowledge exchange activities.
We are in Cluster M, defined as smaller universities often with a teaching focus.
Find out more about the University of Suffolk’s position in the KEF .
The seven perspectives we as a University are measured against are: Public and Community Engagement ; Research Partnerships ; Working with business ; Working with the Public and Third Sector ; CPD and Graduate Start ups ; Local Growth and Regeneration ; IP and Commercialisation.
A variety of KE activities can contribute to each KEF perspective.
Below are examples of what might contribute to each perspective.
We therefore have a wide variety of ways to collaborate outside of higher education that can benefit businesses, public institutions, non-profit organisations and individuals; help us meet our KEF objectives; and allow the wider economy and society to benefit from our Knowledge Exchange activity.
Public Engagement Bronze Watermark Award
Activities in partnership with either small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) or non-SMEs.
This perspective covers the same activities as working with business, however the partner is from the public or third sector, such as charities, social enterprises and community groups.
To find out how your business or organisation could benefit from a Knowledge Exchange collaboration with us, reach out to our dedicated KE team at KE@uos.ac.uk.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/ktp:
If you are a UK based established business, charity, or organisation that is looking to embed a new process, challenge, or undertake a project but do not have the capacity or all of the knowledge to undertake it, then a Knowledge Transfer Partnership could be perfect for you.
It is a collaboration between three partners: a University Academic (the Knowledge Base Partner), a recent graduate or post-graduate employed by the University (the Associate) and the company.
The three partners work together to reach the objectives of a specific business project which is delivered by the Associate who works in the business premises.
KTPs can come from any sector or industry – from technology and the creative industries through to environmental technologies.
With the help of a dedicated KTP adviser, you can find the right academic to suit your business.
You can then shape a collaborative project that will enable your business to draw on this expertise and apply it commercially.
Knowledge Transfer Partnerships is a UK-wide programme, funded by Innovate UK.
It helps businesses to improve innovation, competitiveness and productivity through better use of the knowledge, technology and skills available within universities and other parts of the UK knowledge base.
The University of Suffolk has a dedicated Knowledge Transfer Partnership Manager who will help to recruit a suitable graduate, known as an Associate.
They can be an undergraduate, Masters or PhD level.
The University will advise on the skills and qualifications that you will need for your project.
We will act as the employer of the graduate, who then works at the company for the duration.
The graduate can be from any University, but we actively promote any KTP vacancies to Suffolk graduates to encourage as many applications as possible.
The scheme can last between 12 and 36 months, depending on what the project is and the needs of the business.
A KTP can be in any subject or discipline as long as it is an innovative project that will lead to growth within your company.
To be eligible for KTP, a business needs to have growth potential so must be revenue generating and have a minimum of 5 members of staff.
If the company you are working with is not yet at this level, please contact the Knowledge Exchange team as there may be other other funding opportunities available.
Each KTP is a 3-way partnership between:
KTPs enable businesses to access highly qualified people to spearhead new projects and experts to take the business forward with innovative solutions to help the business grow.
Businesses achieve an average increase in annual profit of more than £1million after participating.
By embedding academic expertise within the business, performance is improved to enable the company to become more competitive and productive.
For every £1 of KTP grant invested, it results in up to £8 of net extra GVA.
KTPs are part-funded by Innovate UK (75% for charity/voluntary/not for profit organisations of any size, 67% for SMEs and 50% for large businesses) and encourage businesses to improve their competitiveness and productivity by drawing on the knowledge, technology and skills within UK universities.
The Business and the Knowledge Exchange team will work collaboratively on an Expression of Interest form.
This is sent to Innovate UK’s Knowledge Transfer Adviser along with 3 years’ worth of accounts.
They will check the feasibility of the idea and tell us if it is suitable.
A KTP application is completed jointly by the prospective business, the academic and a member of the Knowledge Exchange team and the time commitment is about 20 hours from each partner.
It is in-depth and there is also a project workplan to be completed.
Both the application and workplan should include information about each of the participants, their objectives, the proposed tasks and deliverables for the Associate.
The business and academic are supported by the Knowledge Exchange team throughout.
The completed application should be submitted by the academic or research organisation on behalf of the partnership, following agreement from the Knowledge Transfer Adviser.
The Knowledge Exchange team works with the academic to identify any possible University of Suffolk graduates who could apply.
Applications are assessed by an independent group of assessors.
The KTP project team will normally be notified of the outcome within 12 weeks or less of application.
Please get in touch with one of our Knowledge Exchange team members.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/research-and-knowledge-exchange/phd-study-and-the-suffolk-doctoral-college/phd-subject-areas-and-supervisors:
If you are applying with a proposed project or strong area of focus, our PhD subject areas will facilitate your search for a supervisor and your understanding of our specialist strengths at the University of Suffolk.
Business Management
Childhood Studies
Criminology
Computer Science and Informatics
Education
English, Creative Writing and Critical Theory
Fine Art
Forensic Psychology
Health and Biological Sciences
Heritage
History
Law
Social Policy and Social Work
Social Justice
Sport and Exercise Science

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/research-and-knowledge-exchange/phd-study-and-the-suffolk-doctoral-college/applying-for-a-phd:
As a University of Suffolk postgraduate student, you’ll be an integral and respected part of our research community.
Our students from across the UK and around the world study are developing their own research or ground-breaking projects under the supportive guidance of an academic supervisor.
We are able to offer both Master of Philosophy (MPhil) and Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) research degrees.
Our research students will enrol with the University of Suffolk and all PhD supervision and training will take place at our stunning Waterfront campus in Ipswich.
Students will study for around 3–4 years full-time and 6–7 years part-time.
We operate a rolling intake of students so you can make an application any time during the year.
Typically UK students would start their PhD one month after a formal offer is made.
International students would start around three months after an offer is made.
Explore the areas below to help you complete a successful application to Suffolk, where you will enjoy a full programme of research support, training and advice designed for students working towards doctoral degrees (PhDs).
Complete the application form and submit it with your Research Proposal.
Contact the Doctoral College for any questions or further information regarding PhD applications, email PhDEnquiry@uos.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/research-and-knowledge-exchange/phd-study-and-the-suffolk-doctoral-college/phd-funding-and-scholarships:
Postgraduate Tuition Fees for 2025/26 are detailed below.
Write-up period – no charge for first year (full-time students) or first two years (part-time students), then £500 each subsequent year
A CAS deposit of £5,000 is required for the UK VISA application and the University of Suffolk Admissions team will be in contact when they are ready to request this.
All members of the University of Suffolk Alumni Association are entitled to a loyalty reduction on PhD course fees.
This scheme has been developed to support and encourage alumni students to progress to full or part-time postgraduate research programmes at the University.
More information is available on the Alumni Postgraduate Loyalty Scheme page.
A Doctoral Loan of up to £30,301 (2025-26) is available to help eligible students with the tuition fees and/or living costs of your postgraduate doctoral study.
The loan is paid directly to you in three instalments in each year of study, approximately every four months.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/research-and-knowledge-exchange/phd-study-and-the-suffolk-doctoral-college/suffolk-doctoral-college:
Your PhD Journey Starts Here: Where Individual Excellence Meets Collaborative Innovation
Are you interested in the University of Suffolk's dynamic research community, where every PhD student is not a number but a highly valued researcher with unique potential.
Our thriving Doctoral College has built something special - a place where cutting-edge research meets genuine personal support, and where your post graduate academic journey is shaped around you .
Forget generic workshops and one-size-fits-all programs.
Our comprehensive Research Development Programme mapped to the Vitae framework is your gateway to research skills that matter—from introductory workshops to advanced methodologies and honing career-defining presentations.
Whether you're mastering statistical analysis, co-production and creative methods, perfecting your thesis defence, or preparing for your first conference presentation, our workshops evolve based on what you as a post-graduate research student and your fellow researchers actually need to be highly successful for the demand of modern research careers.
The Suffolk Doctoral College is extremely proud of its interdisciplinary foundations and our PhD candidates have the best opportunities to collaborate and work alongside other students, post-docs, early career researchers and highly experienced professors.
Our year-round training and social events are not just about networking but real-life innovation laboratories where interdisciplinary magic happens.
They are vibrant exchanges of ideas where your next breakthrough might come from an unexpected conversation.
The Suffolk Doctoral College provides more than training and desk space – it is your research home.
Completely transformed in 2025 and continuously upgraded based on student feedback, this exclusive environment is designed by PhD students, for PhD students providing university-wide personalised support to every step of your PhD journey.
Your research journey deserves the best supervisory team, and we make it happen through our academic Schools and Research Institutes.
From your initial enquiry, we personally connect you with potential supervisors who understand your vision and can guide you toward excellence with direct, personal advice from day one supported by our dedicated PGR course leaders in each School.
Ready to explore your research potential?
Connect with us at PhDEnquiry@uos.ac.uk
Our exceptional PhD supervisors aren't just academics—they're mentors, collaborators, and champions of innovative research.
While we'll match you with the perfect supervisory team after your initial application, you're always welcome to reach out directly to discuss your research ideas with potential supervisors.
Discover the full range of expertise available on our PhD Subject Areas page and imagine where your research could take you.
Don't just take our word for it —hear directly from current PhD students who are living this experience right now.
Check out our " Meet our PhD Students " section below to see how their journeys are unfolding at Suffolk.
"I'm settling in well – there's a lot of paperwork, but I'm really enjoying it.
Everyone has been so amazing and welcoming, it's a fantastic university!"

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/business/business-engagement:
The University of Suffolk is a business embracing organisation committed to working with you to help your business grow through innovation, enterprise and knowledge exchange.
You can access the best in graduate talent and academic expertise here to accelerate your growth and development.
We want to work with you to ensure the University works for business and employers, continuing to have a demonstrable economic impact on our locality and further afield whilst learning from you and bringing you into our community.
We can provide access to students, graduates, apprentices, state of the art facilities, Innovation Labs at University of Suffolk, meeting room hire, business networks, funding opportunities, Knowledge Transfer Partnerships, CPD and short courses, events and enterprise skills development, consultancy and collaborative research to name but some of the opportunities available when you choose to work with University of Suffolk.
There are no barriers to working with University of Suffolk to grow your business regardless of whether you are an SME or a larger organisation.
In fact there is more funding and drivers than ever before for business to engage with higher education, realising the targets of the Industrial Strategy, and making an impact on the productivity and economic success story of a region.
The team at University of Suffolk understand the needs and timescales of businesses wishing to compete in an ever competitive environment.
Being a young University is an enabler here as we are able to move fast to help meet the needs of our business community.
Our digital booklet highlights some of the key successes and impacts from the University of Suffolk's Business Engagement, Careers and Employability directorate in the year 2022 to 2023.
To contact the team or sign up to our quarterly newsletter, visit our get in touch page.
The gateway to university expertise, talent and resources that can improve business growth and competitiveness.
The Careers, Employability and Enterprise Service provides students with the information, advice and guidance they need before, during and after graduating.
We are focused on building long-term, mutually beneficial relationships with regional organisations that create a positive impact on our community, and welcome your suggestions of new ways for us to do this.
The Alumni Relations and Development Team continue to support and engage with our graduates long after they have completed their studies with us.
Explore how you or your business could benefit from our range of activities such as innovation vouchers and internships.
Marek is the Pro Vice-Chancellor for Commercial and Academic Partnerhips
Graeme is the Head of Business Engagement
Innovation Centre Administrator Vivian supports the operation of the Innovation Lab University of Suffolk, including administration and knowledge exchange.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/business-solutions-centre:
The Business Solutions Centre is a catalyst for growth.
It is a gateway expertise, talent and resources that can improve business growth and competitiveness for market advantage.
The Business Solutions Centre delivers comprehensive support services designed for companies and organisations seeking to partner with the University of Suffolk to accelerate growth, tackle operational challenges, develop solutions, and enhance workforce capabilities through professional development and talent acquisition strategies.
The centre, based in the Atrium Building at our Ipswich campus, takes an impact-led and outcome focused approach, focusing on areas where we can help and make a difference to reach your vision, business ambitions and deliver your strategic objectives.
This partnership also enables our students to implement their academic learning in practical environments, creating tangible benefits for your organisation.
It is a mutually beneficial arrangement.
To explore opportunities, contact our business engagement team at engage@uos.ac.uk and we will get in to arrange a consultation to understand your specific requirements and determine how we can best support your needs.
REGISTER YOUR INTEREST

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/business/business-engagement/venue-hire:
The University of Suffolk offers a superb location on Ipswich Waterfront, conveniently located close to the train station and only a 15 minute drive to the beautiful Suffolk coast.
The town of Ipswich is within close proximity to London (approximately an hour by train), a number of international airports and Harwich Ferry Terminal - perfectly located to welcome you from across the UK and the globe.
If you are interested in hiring our facilities please complete our enquiry form .
If you have used our facilities, we would welcome your feedback via our short questionnaire .
Thank you for taking the time to share your views.
The University of Suffolk boasts excellent facilities in its state-of-the-art Waterfront Building, where we can cater for conferences of up to 180 delegates with smaller meeting rooms also available for hire.
The ILABS is a smart working environment within Ipswich with businesses, academics and the Business Engagement and Entrepreneurship team.
Co-located in a flexible space we welcome businesses to use for meetings and events or co-working / hot desk space within premium office facilities.
If you are in Ipswich for the day or for longer periods and are looking for a base please contact us.
The 3D Printing Suite at University of Suffolk is based in the University’s Innovation Labs (ILUOS) and is offered as a resource to businesses of any size who require 3D printing at any stage from design to production across healthcare, creative or manufacture.
Ipswich is home to a number of independent boutiques, restaurants, bistro pubs and bars, as well as a variety of places to stay.
Please see the guides below for more information.
Find information about parking, public transport, accommodation and more.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/business/degree-apprenticeships/our-apprenticeships:
Apprenticeships provide the opportunity for students to combine work and study - applying their academic studies to their job role, organisation, and industry to become academically confident and skilled employees.
Higher and Degree Apprenticeships can take one to five years to complete.
Apprentices will spend at least a minimum of 6 hours per week completing off-the-job training, which could be a combination of studies at the University and training offered by the employer.
The University of Suffolk currently offer apprenticeships in the following subject areas:
Level 5 Assistant Practitioner
Level 5 Nursing Associate
Level 6 Registered Nurse (Adult)
Level 6 Registered Nurse (Mental Health)
Interested in studying a health apprenticeship?
Learn more about The East of England Centre of Excellence for Health Apprenticeships (CEHA) ; an innovative partnership aimed to revolutionize the delivery of apprenticeships in the fields of health and social care careers.
Please note our higher and degree apprenticeship offer may change when reviewed/ re-validated or when new Standards are approved.
Level 6 Social Worker
Level 4 Associate Project Manager - September 2025 start
Level 6 Construction Site Manager* - September 2026 start
Level 6 Data Scientist* - January 2026 start
Level 6 Design and Construction Management* - September 2026 start
Level 6 Digital Technology Solutions (Software/Cyber/Network) - January 2026 start
Level 6 Environmental Health Practitioner* - January 2026 start
Level 6 Environmental Practitioner* - January 2026 start
Level 6 Project Manager* - September 2026 start
*subject to validation
For more information and details on how to apply, contact us at apprenticeships@uos.ac.uk or register your interest.
If you are an employer and would like to discuss upskilling/growing your workforce, contact us at engage@uos.ac.uk or register your interest.
highest university provider nationally for overall qualification apprenticeship achievement rate*
highest ranked performing university nationally for overall apprenticeship achievement
overall apprenticeship retention rate
The sections below provide more information about how to join a higher or degree apprenticeship with the University of Suffolk, and module content for each apprenticeship programme.
Please make sure to check out the course page for your preferred apprenticeship route as each apprenticeship has varying entry requirements.
Some courses do not allow direct entry via applications; our course teams are happy to discuss in further detail.
An apprenticeship is a combined package of the following:
Employment
This is where the practical learning and ‘on-the-job training’ takes place.
Studies/lectures
This is where the theoretical learning takes place.
The degree modules map to the knowledge, skills and behaviours (also known as ‘KSBs’) required to show competency in the relevant industry sector (as outlined in the chosen apprenticeship standard)
The academic assignments, exams and projects will lead to the Apprentice being awarded a University of Suffolk Foundation Degree (Level 5), Bachelor’s Degree (Level 6) or Master's Degree (Level 7); but the Apprenticeship will not be completed until the EPA has also been passed.
The University and employer will agree study methods, which would normally be either day-release or block teaching (e.g.
one full week of University study followed by four weeks of full-time work), but apprentices will also normally have some online teaching or project-work.
Progress Reviews (also known as ‘tripartite reviews’)
These are regular meetings held with an Apprenticeship Practice Educator/ Skills Coach, where the apprentice and employer are present to discuss progress.
Functional Skills studies
Apprentices must bring ACE acceptable evidence of level 2 (or equivalent) English and Maths qualifications with them prior to commencing their programme.
During curriculum delivery, apprentices will be required to demonstrate how they are developing their English and mathematical skills in the workplace beyond level 2.
Holistic and personal development skills
This includes raising awareness of topics such as safeguarding, PREVENT, County Lines, British values, sustainability, citizenship and equality and diversity.
Off-the-job-training
This is learning which is undertaken outside of day-to-day work duties and leads towards the achievement of the apprenticeship.
This must equate to a minimum of 6 hours per week.
End Point Assessment
This is the final assessment that is used to confirm that the apprentice is occupationally competent.
Please make sure to check out the course page for your preferred apprenticeship route by clicking on the boxes below.
Each apprenticeship has varying entry requirements, and some do not allow direct entry via applications.
If you’re employed with a levy-paying organisation, and would like to study a higher or degree apprenticeship, please ask your employer to email us via apprenticeships@uos.ac.uk so that we can discuss how we can work together.
If you are not working for a company that can fund and support your degree apprenticeship, you'll need to apply for a degree apprenticeship with a company that offers them.
You'll follow their standard recruitment process and we'll assess your academic suitability for the course.
You can also search for degree apprenticeship vacancies through gov.uk or UCAS .
Qualifications
Each apprenticeship will have it's own entry requirements and you are advised to refer to the sections listed below to determine the requirements for your preferred apprenticeship.
However, in general, apprentices would normally have already completed a Level 3 apprenticeship or Level 3 qualifications (e.g.
A Levels, BTEC), or have significant relevant work experience in order to be considered for a Higher or Degree Apprenticeship.
In addition to this, apprentices are required to have obtained a Level 2 (GCSE Grade 4/Grade C) or equivalent qualification in English and Maths in order to join their chosen program.
If permitted to join an apprenticeship without these qualifications, the apprentice will be expected to achieve them before progressing through the gateway for the End Point Assessment.
For international qualifications, apprentices need to provide an ENIC statement of comparability that confirms English and Maths qualifications are equivalent to meet the entry requirements.
Apprenticeships are funded by employers, which means apprentices will not have to pay any of their training costs.
However, as stated above, in order to be eligible for an apprenticeship with the University of Suffolk, you must be employed by a levy-paying employer.
Please see the I nformation for Employers page for more details about the apprenticeship levy.
Training Plan (A)
If you enrol onto one of our Apprenticeships, the Training Plan (A) is a document that will be signed by you, the University and your employer.
It will outline the planned content and schedule for training, expectations of the apprenticeship, and how to resolve queries or complaints.
It is a requirement of the funding for the Apprenticeship that this is signed, and the above is an example of how this might look, as each one will be specific to the Apprentice.
Skills Analysis
Before an apprenticeship begins, the University must assess the individual’s prior learning to establish the ‘starting point’, or baseline, of the apprentice.
This informs how much of the apprenticeship training content the individual requires and checks that the apprenticeship is an appropriate training programme for the individual.
Apprenticeship Agreement
The apprenticeship agreement is a statutory requirement for the employment of an apprentice in connection with an approved apprenticeship standard.
It forms part of the individual employment arrangements between the apprentice and the employer; it is a contract of service (i.e.
a contract of employment) and not a contract of apprenticeship.
The purpose of the apprenticeship agreement is to identify:
Acceptable evidence that the academic requirements of the chosen apprenticeship will also be required prior to commencing the apprenticeship programme.
Many of our programmes do not allow direct entry and are recruited through existing employer contacts.
If you feel that you meet the entry requirements of your preferred apprenticeship, and your employer is levy-paying, please direct your employing organisation to email apprenticeships@uos.ac.uk to initiate conversations about recruitment.
Once eligibility has been confirmed, the team will be in touch with you to discuss the application and interview process, and any documentation that is required.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/business/degree-apprenticeships/information-for-employers:
Apprenticeships enable organisations to upskill and retrain existing staff members while recruiting fresh talent and addressing workforce skills gaps.
We deliver diverse apprenticeships across multiple disciplines, suitable for various business sectors.
Higher and degree apprenticeships represent a collaborative effort between industry and academic institutions, designed to address employer workforce requirements.
Apprenticeships offer a dynamic pathway for employees to access higher education development opportunities, whilst enabling organisations to expand their workforce and cultivate talent aligned with their strategic objectives.
Available to individuals of all ages, apprenticeships offer an ‘earn while you learn’ approach though a combination of theoretical learning and hands-on training in a professional setting.
Higher and degree apprenticeships at the University of Suffolk range from level 4, comparable to a Higher Education Certificate/Diploma, through to level 7, the equivalent to a master's qualification.
Degree apprenticeships typically span one to five years, offering multiple intakes per year, subject to the course of interest.
DOWNLOAD | APPRENTICESHIPS FOR EMPLOYERS
Explore the apprenticeship subject areas we have on offer below.
Level 4 Associate Project Manager
Level 6 Architectural Assistant*
Level 6 Construction Site Manager*
Level 6 Data Scientist*
Level 6 Design and Construction Management*
Level 6 Digital Technology Solutions (cyber)
Level 6 Digital Technology Solutions (network)
Level 6 Digital Technology Solutions (software)
Level 6 Environmental Health Practitioner*
Level 6 Environmental Practitioner*
Level 6 Project Manager*
Level 6 Supply Chain Leadership Professional
Register your interest in our apprenticeships by completing our enquiry form.
Download | Employer Guide
The information below will help you find out more about Apprenticeships at the University of Suffolk and how we can work together to help shape the community by developing a skilled and confident workforce.
For more information, read our Guide | Apprenticeship Funding - levy and non levy employers
Higher and Degree Level Apprenticeships will take one to five years to complete.
Apprentices will normally be in full-time work and will spend at least a minimum of 6 hours per week in off-the-job training.
The University of Suffolk can offer training via day release or block teaching, but Apprentices will also normally have some training that takes place online, or that they undertake directly with their employer.
Employers have a responsibility to ensure their Apprentices have a minimum of 6 hours per week for training, throughout the lifetime of their apprenticeship programme.
Apprentices must have Level 2 English and Maths (equivalent to GCSE grade C or above, or GCSE grades 4-9) before commencing their Apprenticeship.
During curriculum delivery, apprentices will be required to demonstrate how they are developing their English and mathematical skills in the workplace beyond level 2.
The University and the employer will work together to support the Apprentice, undertaking regular reviews to ensure the Apprenticeship is working and that the Apprentice is successfully managing their course.
Employers will also be invited to support reviews and development of the courses for the future - and may be invited to support the development of new Apprenticeships at the University.
The University welcomes comments and feedback from employers on Apprenticeship programmes as a means of enhancing the student experience.
Employers can share their views via a range of mechanisms including liaison with the Apprenticeships Hub and Course Leaders and through formal mechanisms such as Course Committees.
An Employer Complaints and Dispute Resolution Procedure is in place where employers have been unable to address their concerns through liaison with relevant University staff.
The procedure comprises three stages: an informal stage for early resolution; a formal stage if the employer is not able to resolve their complaint informally and wishes to pursue their concerns further; and a review stage which an employer may follow if they are not satisfied with the outcome of their formal stage complaint.
Please use the relevant employer complaints form below if you wish to submit a formal complaint:
Apprentices will undertake a range of assessments based on the requirements of the Apprenticeship Standard.
This is likely to be a combination of assignments, exams, and practical assessments.
Where possible, assignments will provide the opportunity for Apprentices to consider their own job role, their own organisation, or their sector/industry.
Apprentices will achieve a University of Suffolk award at the end of their Apprenticeship, which will be a Foundation Degree for Level 5, or a Bachelor Degree for Level 6.
Additional assessments may be required for Professional Accreditation, depending on the Apprenticeship Standard.
All Apprentices must also undertake an E nd Point Assessment (EPA) to complete their Apprenticeship.
The Apprenticeship Standard will determine if the EPA is undertaken as part of their studies at the University of Suffolk (an integrated EPA ) or if it should be taken separately from the University.
Where it is a separate assessment, the University will work with the employer to identify an End Point Assessment Organisation, and the University will pay for the EPA from the Apprenticeship fee agreed with the employer.
The EPA may cost as much as 20% of the total Apprenticeship fee.
Apprentices must pass their EPA in order to complete their Apprenticeship.
Employers wanting to link to the University of Suffolk and add Apprentices on the Apprenticeship Service, should follow the following steps:
Employers should contact the Apprenticeships team at the University of Suffolk to discuss their requirements.
The University will work with employers to agree entry requirements and recruitment, and will promote new Apprenticeship vacancies where appropriate.
The team can be contacted on apprenticeships@uos.ac.uk.
For more information and guidance, download the Employers' Apprenticeship Toolkit .

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/business/degree-apprenticeships/apprenticeships:
Earn while you learn - kick start your career with the University for Suffolk
Degree and Higher apprenticeships offer an alternative work-based route to degree and postgraduate education.
Through a collaboration between employers, apprentices, and our University, learners benefit from studying for a degree whilst earning an income alongside gaining practical work experience.
We have a range of degree and higher apprenticeships available spanning lots of industries and professions.
DOWNLOAD | OUR APPRENTICESHIPS
For more information, please see the drop sections below, contact our apprenticeships team at apprenticeships@uos.ac.uk or register you interest by completing our form .
Download | Apprentice - What to expect and when
Enrolling
Prior to starting your apprenticeship, you will be required to enrol online.
All learners are sent an online link from the University in order to complete this.
Being able to enrol will be dependant on you meeting the entry criteria for your chosen apprenticeship standard (i.e.
providing sufficient evidence of required qualifications and attending an interview), and being compliant with apprenticeship funding rules (i.e.
being employed with a levy-paying employer with appropriate contractual paperwork in place).
Inductions
At the start of your apprenticeship, you will be invited to attend an Apprenticeship Hub and a central induction, where you will have the opportunity to:
Download | Apprenticeship Induction Guide
As an apprentice, you will have agreed and signed a number of documents to confirm compliance to the expectations of an apprenticeship.
This will include the following:
TRAINING PLAN (A)
The Training Plan (A) completed to confirm adherence to the following during your studies with the University of Suffolk:
The Training Plan (A) is intended to be used at, and to inform the regular progress reviews between the training provider, employer and apprentice, that take place during the lifetime of the apprenticeship.
The Training Plan (A) will be signed by both the employer and the apprentice.
A copy of your signed Training Plan (A) will be filed within your learner files, should you need to access it.
A full list of the roles and responsibilities can be located in Section 2 of the Training Plan (A).
APPRENTICESHIP AGREEMENT
An apprenticeship agreement must be in place at the start of the apprenticeship.
The employer and the apprentice need to sign the agreement – it is an agreement between these two parties only.
Training providers sign a separate Training Plan (A) (as detailed above) which outlines the planned content and schedule for training, what is expected of and offered by the employer, provider and the apprentice, and how to resolve queries or complaints.
SKILLS ANALYSIS
As part of the apprenticeship application process, every candidate completes a self-assessment, called a Skills Analysis.
The Skills Analysis ensures that the knowledge, skills & behaviours of the chosen apprenticeship standard will be beneficial to the apprentice’s development and meet the business needs.
Every government approved apprenticeship is a combination of knowledge, skills and behaviours that are required to be competent at the end of the apprenticeship, to perform in the job role.
The Skills Analysis checks that the apprenticeship programme contains sufficient new learning that will support the apprentice’s progression.
Apprenticeships are about development.
For a candidate to be eligible for an apprenticeship, a significant percentage of new learning must take place.
However, each candidate also brings with them prior learning, qualifications and workplace experience.
The Skills Analysis determines the amount of new development the apprentice will gain.
This can also impact the cost and duration of the apprenticeship, as employer levy/government apprenticeship funding can only be used towards new learning and development.
PROGRESS REVIEWS
These meetings are an important part of your apprenticeship programme and will be carried out regularly between you, your employer and a member of the University (usually a Practice Educator/Skills Coach).
This will happen approximately three times per year.
The aim of the meetings is to review your progression and allow you the opportunity to raise any issues or concerns you may have.
These reviews can be face-to-face or remote via Microsoft Teams.
APPRENTICES ON-PROGRAMME
Once you are ‘on-programme’, you will follow your programme timetable of learning.
Training is delivered as blended learning and you will be set assessment deadlines, which will be graded on their outcome and formally recorded through a regular meetings called 'assessment boards'.
Apprentices can access their assignments and course content using Brightspace , a Virtual Learning Environment.
Throughout your Apprenticeship Programme, you can access all the Universities facilities including the Student Union, Counselling services and Student Life.
Gateway is the point at which the apprentice is ready to commence their End Point Assessment (EPA).
The employer and training provider will review their apprentice’s knowledge, skills and behaviours to see if they have met the minimum requirements of the apprenticeship set out in the apprenticeship standard , and are ready to take the assessment.
To meet the minimum requirements set out in the apprenticeship standard an apprentice needs to:
Only apprentices who complete gateway successfully can start the EPA.
All apprentices must undertake an End Point Assessment (EPA), which will be taken at the end of your programme.
The EPA is a key part of your apprenticeship, which will assess the knowledge, skills and behaviours you have learnt throughout your work-based learning.
All apprentices MUST undertake their EPA to successfully complete their apprenticeship.
Assessments have been designed by employers in the sector, and can include:
For each assessment method, an assessor might ask you questions.
This is to make sure you show the assessor all the knowledge, skills and behaviours needed for your occupation.
The apprentice will not have achieved the full apprenticeship and be able to graduate until all elements the programme including the EPA have been successfully completed.
This is including any required standards in English and Maths.
How to prepare and what to expect
Five top tips:
You can find the assessment plan for your apprenticeship on the Institute for Apprenticeships website.
This tells you which assessment method is used in your apprenticeship.
Certification and Graduation
On successful completion of your apprenticeship programme at the University of Suffolk, you will be awarded your certificate and have the opportunity to attend your graduation day.
What's Next?
If you need some impartial advice about what to do next and how to progress in your career, please get in touch with our Careers and Employability team.
More information can be found on our Apprenticeship Careers page .

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/business/leadership-and-management-academy:
The Academy is the home of the University of Suffolk’s Postgraduate Business Programmes and research into Leadership and Management.
Our vision is to shape the business world today and tomorrow, through innovative programmes, applied research and practical development.
We're more than an academy; we're a hub of collaboration, partnering with business, academic institutions, and communities worldwide, to realise our vision.
A collaborative, creative approach is at the heart of everything we do.
Our portfolio of postgraduate degree programmes benefit from bringing local business leaders, innovative technology & industry networks into the forefront of your learning experience.
Ross joined the university in 2021 and is the Associate Director of the Leadership and Management Academy.
Fran joined the University of Suffolk in 2018, she is now Interim Dean for the London Centre and Associate Professor in Marketing.
Lecturer in Business, Keith was previously a leader and senior manager in the NHS before moving into senior management of a national healthcare charity.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/our-university:
Situated at the heart of the historic and regenerated Ipswich waterfront, with cutting-edge facilities, highly rated teaching, and excellent graduate prospects, the University of Suffolk embodies the principles of transformation, collaboration and choice.
Gaining independent university status in 2016, having previously operated as University Campus Suffolk, our growing University is challenging longer-established institutions, climbing 68 places in the Complete University Guide over the past three years.
We encourage students to make their university experience their own.
The majority of our undergraduate courses operate on a pioneering ‘ block and blend’ teaching method ', allowing students to focus on one module at a time so they can study in a way that suits them.
Our classes have strong student-to-staff ratios, meaning lecturers and tutors can get to know their students and provide them with more tailored support.
Placement opportunities allow students to engage with employers and the local area, connecting with the community and learning through experience.
Our University also has a transformative role in the Ipswich and Suffolk community, working with partners to enhance economic, social and cultural growth as part of our Civic University pledge .
We have growing partnerships with Premier League Ipswich Town Football Club and the Ipswich-based Brighten the Corners music festival.
Ipswich is the perfect location for taking university life at your own pace.
Beaches and countryside are within easy reach; the town centre is full of quirky cafés, lively bars and independent shops; and the iconic cities of London and Cambridge are just a train ride away.
At Suffolk, the choice is yours.
Our mission is to transform lives and our region, through education, training, research, business and community engagement,
The team ensures the effective organisation, direction and management of the university and its deployment of resources.
EXECUTIVE TEAM
The responsibilities of the Board of Directors include the determination of the educational character, mission and corporate plans of the University and for oversight of its activities, including ensuring the effective and efficient use of resources.
DIRECTORS
A key part of the role of the Senate is to advise the Vice-Chancellor and the University of Suffolk Board on the development of the academic activities of the University and the resources needed to support them and to advise on such other matters as the Board or the Vice-Chancellor may refer to the Senate.
WHAT THEY DO
In October 2022, the University Board agreed to establish a dental social enterprise, the University of Suffolk Dental CIC (CIC), alongside dentistry-affiliated academic programmes in a new Centre for Dental Development.
The proposal is a joint development with Suffolk and North-East Essex ICB (SNEE) as part of a wider programme to address issues surrounding the shortfalls in NHS dental provision in Suffolk.
The CIC will provide NHS-only dental appointments with no private provision.
The University will initially provide a BSc in Dental Hygiene and Therapy, with plans to expand to dental nursing and technician apprenticeships, and ultimately undergraduate dentistry.
The CIC starts operating in spring 2024, gradually phasing to full operating capacity over the year.
Services are delivered under contract by SNEE, awarded after a competitive bid process.
Articles of Association - University of Suffolk Dental CIC
Professional, statutory and regulatory bodies (PSRBs) is the term used for a group of different bodies that recognise, approve or accredit courses.
Some PSRBs have a statutory or regulatory responsibility to set minimum standards of entry into a particular profession.
FIND OUT MORE
There are a number of policies and reports in operation to ensure the smooth and effective running of the University.
View documents in the Publication Scheme
The University of Suffolk is bound to act in accordance with its Articles of Association which define the University's structure and the way in which the University is governed by the Board of Directors.
Reporting to the Board of Directors, formal decision-making within the University is conducted through academic and executive governance structures.
Our Civic University Agreement is an initiative that will harness the work, influence and energy of the students, staff and alumni of the University to promote societal, economic and environmental advancements in, and for, the people of Suffolk.
Civic University Agreement
The Economic Impact Assessment is a comprehensive analysis, which has taken economic data from the 2021–2022 academic year, stands as a testament to the significant influence and impactful contributions the University of Suffolk has made in our communities in Ipswich, Suffolk and beyond.
Economic Impact Assessment
Discover the history of the University of Suffolk and its origins through information and photography.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/civic-university:
The University of Suffolk has at the heart of its mission, a responsibility to be a model for a new type of civic university – embedded, influential and a focus of societal and economic change in all the communities it serves.
This initiative will harness the work, influence and energy of the students, staff and alumni of the University to promote societal, economic and environmental advancements in and for the people of Suffolk.
We have strongly believed, and positioned, the University at the heart of the community and this initiative is designed to enhance our community engagement across the County.
Our Civic University agreement was developed following a consultation project led by Dr Cristian Dogaru .
A series of consultation events were held with the public, stakeholders, staff and students and our key regional partners to help inform the Civic University Agreement’s guiding principles.
The word clouds illustrate the feedback from the staff survey and the general public survey and have helped shape our principles: community roots and engagement; embedding the civic university principles into teaching and research; bringing organisations together; and improving communication and visibility.
Linking the guiding principles to the University’s areas of distinctiveness — preserving and celebrating the culture and heritage of Suffolk; fostering sustainable economic growth and regeneration; enhancing skills and aspirations beyond traditional higher education; addressing the health challenges of the region and harnessing digital innovation.
To reaffirm our engagement, we have set out a series of pledges to our communities in a Civic University Agreement.
These pledges seek to address the key regional challenges we face; and drive positive change to improve the lives of residents and communities.
We pledge to engage in partnerships that foster a vibrant local culture and economy while showcasing our contributions on a global stage, ensuring that the unique needs and voices of Suffolk’s communities are heard and valued.
We pledge to continue integrating civic engagement and social responsibility themes more visibly and relevantly across our curriculum, and to expand our community-based learning opportunities, enabling students to work directly with local organisations on projects that drive social change.
We commit to facilitating inclusive community projects that bridge urban and rural divides, promoting a unified and resilient regional identity.
We commit to fostering interdisciplinary research that addresses the real-world challenges of our region, translating academic excellence into tangible societal benefits.
We pledge to serve as a central hub and convener for the University, its students, and the broader community, enabling a dynamic exchange of ideas and collaborative solutions.
We will offer our facilities as a convening space for community organisations, fostering a hub of civic and cultural activity.
We pledge to enhance our communication strategies to ensure our civic activities and achievements are visible and accessible to all community members.
Our civic role is predominantly a team role and many of our partners have contributed during the development of the project.
Their ongoing commitment and support are of significant value to the University and our region.
Read more about our commitment to promoting societal, economic and environmental advancements in and for the people of Suffolk.
Clearing has opened at the University of Suffolk, allowing prospective students to apply for a range of courses in time for September.
Fine Art students at the University of Suffolk have created artwork for the walls of mental health wards in Suffolk to promote better health and wellbeing for service users.
A new national training programme aimed at raising awareness of child criminal exploitation among frontline professionals has been developed in collaboration with the University of Suffolk, the NPCC-led National County Lines Coordination Centre (NCLCC), child exploitation charity Ivison Trust and funded by the Home Office.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/our-university/publication-scheme:
Under the Freedom of Information Act 2000, the University of Suffolk has to ensure that it makes certain information publicly available through a Publication Scheme.
This scheme is a clear and structured way of presenting all of the information that it is obligated to provide.
Summary of contracts that have gone through formal tender process:
Our strategy is one that will guide us for the next ten years.
The Vision document is underpinned by the four overarching strategies which in turn are supported by the five enabling strategies.
The Board of Directors oversees the mission and all of the strategies via the operational plan.
Vision for Change
Transforming lives and our region - our strategy and vision 2020-2030
We believe that regardless of fads and fashions that come and go, governments and policies that change, and global crises such as the current pandemic that is unprecedented as an event in modern times, the benefits of education remain constant to our students, our community and our world.
The University of Suffolk is committed to providing high quality education and research that makes an impact, transforming lives, and this does not waver.
Enterprise documents and statements - Links with employers and development of the learning programme
External reviews and inspections - accreditation and monitoring reports by professional, statutory or regulatory bodies (PSRBs).
Find out more about how the University complies with the UK General Data Protection Regulations (UK GDPR).
Requests for information contained in minutes and proceedings should be made to the FoIA Coordinator using the Information Request Form.
View our policies and procedures for delivering our services and responsibilities.
Information regarding property owned or occupied by the University of Suffolk is available on request subject to exemptions under the Freedom of Information Act 2000.
The University of Suffolk and the University of Suffolk Students Union have worked together to develop a Student Charter.
The University of Suffolk is committed to being a student-centred higher education institution that strives to provide its students with the highest standards in teaching and learning, as well as high quality support and advice.
The University of Suffolk Student Charter demonstrates this commitment, outlining what students can expect from staff at University of Suffolk, as well as what can be reasonably expected in return.
The Charter has been approved by Senate and the Executive Team and is kept under annual review.
View, download or order copies of our recent publications .

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/our-university/equality-and-diversity:
On these pages you will find information about Equality and Diversity at the University of Suffolk and how we aim to meet our duties arising from the Equality Act 2010.
At the University of Suffolk, community engagement is about communicating and sharing knowledge, consulting and collaborating with the local community, enriching cultural life and providing a service to our communities.
This is integral to our duty to advance equality of opportunity and foster good relations between people.
Over 4,000 people are studying at our Ipswich campus.
Students are our passion and our business.
Their learning and teaching and their experience while studying with us is at the very heart of everything we do.
We take great care to ensure our recruitment and selection of students, their admission to the University of Suffolk, their learning, teaching and assessment is fair and free from unlawful discrimination.
The University of Suffolk employs some 600 staff.
We have developed a range of employment-related policies and procedures that reflect our commitment to equality and diversity and assist us in achieving and retaining a diverse workforce.
We provide training and development for our managers and staff to ensure they understand our commitment to equality and are able to operate our policies and practices confidently and competently.
We are committed to an inclusive approach to the delivery of Higher Education.
We are working to ensure the University of Suffolk is open and accessible to all those wishing to participate in and are capable of benefiting from Higher Education.
We value all who studying and work at the University of Suffolk and we are committed to developing policies and processes, teaching and learning to tackle inequality and exclusion.
Equality, Diversity & Inclusion Policy
We collect and monitor data about our staff and students to understand and, if necessary, address the effects of our policies and procedures.
We collect student and staff data about all protected characteristics as defined by the Equality Act 2010.
We also undertake an Equality Impact Assessment on each of our policies as a way of measuring the potential impact (both positive and negative) that our policies may have on different groups of people.
We publish an Annual Report each year detailing current priorities and progress of objectives.
The most recent report can be found below:
Annual Report 2023-24
Responsibility for Equality and Diversity at the University of Suffolk rests with the Executive Team , led by the Vice-Chancellor .
The Equality and Diversity Committee, chaired by the Deputy Vice Chancellor, provides a forum for the engagement of staff and student representatives, together with representatives of our wider university community – including our union colleagues and Network Chairs.
The Committee plays a key role in supporting the University of Suffolk in meeting its equality duties and objectives.
Gender Pay Gap Report Summary 2024
The University of Suffolk is a Disability Confident Employer, which means we have taken action to improve how we recruit, retain and develop disabled people.
This includes, but is not limited to:
And at least one activity to keep and develop our people:
We are actively working with our Staff Disability Network to further develop and deliver our scheme action plan.
The Athena Swan Charter is a framework which is used across the globe to support and transform gender equality within higher education (HE) and research.
Established in 2005 to encourage and recognise commitment to advancing the careers of women in science, technology, engineering, maths and medicine (STEMM) employment, the Charter is now being used across the globe to address gender equality more broadly, and not just barriers to progression that affect women.
The University of Suffolk are proud to have achieved a bronze award from the Athena Swan Charter panel.
We also have a number of staff networks which meet bi-monthly to share experiences and help assist the university develop its practice and culture.
They work together to promote diversity and inclusion within the University such as hosting menopause cafes, creating information leaflets around sexuality and gender identity, anti-racism seminars and teaching days and advising on campus accessibility.
There is also an informal International Society made up of staff from overseas who arrange a number of events each year to promote the multicultural and multinational profile of our university.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/our-university/academic-partners:
The University of Suffolk has established a number of partnerships both in the UK and internationally.
The Centre for Academic and International Partnerships (CAIP) is responsible for coordinating, managing and supporting the University of Suffolk’s collaborative activity with partner institutions, both in the UK and internationally.
The team act as a central link between partner institutions and the University’s academic and professional services departments.
If you are interested in partnering with the University of Suffolk, please complete a Partnership Proposal Form and send it to partnerships@uos.ac.uk .
We will consider the proposal and then contact you to discuss next steps.
If you are a current student at one of our partner institutions, you can find information and guidance to support you during your studies in our Partner Student Hub, which can be accessed via the first box below.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/our-university/widening-participation:
The University of Suffolk is committed to working with our community to increase participation in higher education, by raising the aspirations and expectations of all potential students.
The University was created to provide higher education to the people of Suffolk, and while the reach of the University has grown, we remain committed to working with our local communities to ensure that both young and mature students alike are aware of their local opportunities for studying.
We are committed to working with all of our students to support their success throughout their studies with us, and their progression into graduate employment or further study.
“Transition into university and the first-year experience are hugely significant for student success, confidence, belonging and wellbeing” Student Minds, The Hub (2023).
The Ignite Your Spark programme at the University of Suffolk has been designed to support students who may face additional barriers, with the transition into University and throughout their first year.
For more information, click here.
All Higher Education Institutions in the UK are required to register with the Office for Students (OfS) in order for their students to be eligible for tuition and maintenance support.
As one of our conditions of registration with the OfS, we are required to publish our Access and Participation Plan (previously Access Agreement).
This document sets out how the University of Suffolk will increase participation of students normally under-represented in Higher Education and how we will support our students to succeed on their course and progress into employment and further study.
The University's Student Recruitment and Outreach team deliver a range of activities to raise aspirations and increase access to the University of Suffolk, including:
The University was created to provide Higher Education to our local community and we welcome students from a range of backgrounds and experience.
The University of Suffolk is a partner in the Network for East Anglia Collaborative Outreach (NEACO) , a project funded as part of the National Collaborative Outreach Programme to deliver outreach in areas where participation of young people in higher education is low, and lower than expected based on GCSE attainment.
The other partners in NEACO are: University of Cambridge, Anglia Ruskin University, University of East Anglia, Norwich University of the Arts, and the eight FE Colleges in East Anglia.
The project has a team of Higher Education Champions based in schools and colleges across East Anglia, providing a range of outreach activities directly with students, and working closely with the university partners to provide students with positive HE experiences.
The University also works collaboratively with other universities, our Partner Colleges, and a range of external organisations and stakeholders to increase access to university amongst under-represented students.
Our activities include working with young people with little previous experience of HE, Care Leavers, Young Carers, Mature students, and students with disabilities.
More information is available on our Widening Participation pages.
We are proud of our excellent employment rate and work closely with our students to develop their skills for employment and postgraduate study.
Many of our degrees have opportunities for employer engagement and placements.
Our graduates benefit from becoming members of our Alumni Association , providing a range of benefits including continued access to the Careers and Employability team , and a loyalty reduction on selected postgraduate course fees.
The University of Suffolk is embedded in its local community, and we aim to provide a course portfolio that meets the needs of employers now and for the future.
We work closely with a range of employers to provide Higher and Degree Apprenticeships , giving students the opportunity to apply their learning to their workplace, developing their knowledge and skills to benefit their business.
We offer Higher and Degree Apprenticeships across a range of areas, including Health, Business, IT and for the public sector.
Discover the range of opportunities available at the University of Suffolk, including the apprenticeship programmes we have on offer.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/our-university/school-liaison-and-access:
The Student Recruitment and Schools Liaison Teams organise a range of events and activities to help prospective students find out about the range of options in Higher Education and at the University of Suffolk specifically.
We are committed to providing high-quality information, advice and guidance for prospective students, their parents/carers and advisors.
We are happy to visit your school or college to deliver sessions to students or, alternatively, deliver sessions virtually.
Additionally, we organise on-campus activities, attend community events, parents' evenings and education fairs.
The Teams also work hard to promote widening participation in Higher Education.
The University of Suffolk is committed to continuing to raise awareness, aspirations and attainment of young people in Years 7-13 from under-represented groups in Higher Education.
Our outreach activities focus on young people from disadvantaged social and economic backgrounds, looked after children, students from military families, mature students and people with disabilities.
Our teams provide schools and colleges with a range of sessions and online resources covering a variety of Higher Education topics.
Visit us on-campus to experience life at the University of Suffolk, or we can come to you.
Meet the Teams

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/learning-and-teaching:
Together with colleagues from across the University, we promote enhancements in learning and teaching practices and support students in accessing high quality support and resources.
View our Learning, Teaching and Assessment Strategy , which sets out our commitment to personalised, active and independent experiences for all learners, research informed and employer engaged learning and teaching, inclusive and collaborative curriculum and delivery, digitally enabled education, and championing teaching excellence.
At Suffolk, the majority of our undergraduate programmes are delivered as 'block and blend', an innovative way of delivering learning and teaching, and we believe has many advantages for our students.
The Schools Liaison and Access Teams organise a range of events and activities to help prospective students find out about the range of options in Higher Education and at the University of Suffolk specifically.
Library and Learning Services is at the heart of the academic journey for all University of Suffolk staff, students and researchers.
The Quality team are responsible for developing, managing and supporting policies and procedures for maintaining the quality and academic standards of academic provision across the University of Suffolk and its partner institutions.
Tune in to The Student Experience Podcast, where hosts Sam and Brandon will be chatting with members of the University of Suffolk community, including students, alumni and staff, giving them the opportunity to share their experience.
Rob is Director of Learning and Teaching at the University of Suffolk.
Dr Sam Chenery-Morris is the Executive Dean of the School of Business, Arts, Social Sciences and Technology.
Laura is Academic Registrar and is an active member of the Association of University Administrators (AUA), and the Academic Registrar's Council (ARC).
Javiera leads the Postgraduate Certificate in Academic Practice (PgCAP) and is Senior Lecturer in Learning and Teaching Enhancement.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/our-university/economic-impact-assessment-:
In 2021-22, the University of Suffolk had an income of £135 million, 606 members of staff, and 4,946 full-time students in Ipswich.
It generated a total economic impact of:
Gross Value Added (GVA) measures the monetary contribution of University operations to the economy.
This represents an increase in GVA generated across the UK of £500 million since the previous study of the University which analysed its impact in 2017-18, and an increase of 1,470 in employment generated across the UK.
In 2021-22, the University’s UK impact was generated from several sources:
The University of Suffolk is recognised for the significant contributions it makes to meeting the strategic goals of Ipswich and Suffolk.
By working to attract and retain talent and taking on a key role in bringing organisations together, the University acts as a major driver of the economic development of the region.
Through its work with partners, the University has been directly involved in establishing and supporting a number of new centres of innovation and opportunities for development in Ipswich and Suffolk in traditional and emerging sectors.
The University of Suffolk is a civic university which continues to play a key role in the redevelopment of Ipswich and, through its work with local young people, encourages many from non-traditional backgrounds to engage with higher education, supporting them to positive destinations following their time at university.
The University is a major driver of growth in Ipswich and Suffolk, working to attract talent and deliver the skills needed to develop both new and traditional sectors, and working with
partners to support innovation.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/our-vision:
Our vision: by 2030 we will be recognised as an empowering force for individual and community growth and development.
We will be recognised for the major contribution we make to the health and wellbeing of the people in our region and acknowledged for lasting social and sustainable economic transformation.
Students are at the centre of our mission and ethos.
We are proud of our tradition of attracting a diverse student body and producing high-quality graduates.
The University of Suffolk has, at the heart of its mission, a responsibility to be a model for a new type of civic university.
We are committed to supporting and encouraging students in aspiring to higher education.
The University of Suffolk takes a strategic approach to sustainable development across all of its operations and activities.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/our-vision/student-charter:
Introducing the University of Suffolk Student Charter
The University of Suffolk and the University of Suffolk Students' Union have worked together to develop a Student Charter .
The Charter has been approved by Senate and the Executive Team and is kept under annual review.
The charter reflects our shared values and principles and sets out what we can expect from each other as partners in our academic community.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/our-vision/community-engagement-and-impact:
The University of Suffolk has, at the heart of its mission, a responsibility to be a model for a new type of civic university – embedded, influential and a focus of societal and economic change in all the communities it serves.
Our network is reaching out to communities locally and across the globe connecting with people and organisations to create relationships, collaborations and partnerships that can make a real difference.
Our community engagement is about communicating and sharing knowledge, consulting and collaborating with the local community, enriching cultural life and providing a service to our communities.
All of our activity should be mutually beneficial both to the public and to the University and complement our primary contribution to society of providing education.
It is important to us that we create a place that is built for the community, as well as for our students and staff to use.
This means making sure that our campus complements the local area, is accessible to members of the public, and that local groups and organisations are actively encouraged to make use of the facilities available.
To find out about our rooms and facilities and the rates of hire, please email eventsandconferencing@uos.ac.uk .
At the University we very much want to hear what the community wants from us.
Contact details can be found on the Get in Touch page
The University of Suffolk actively engages with its community and is proud to support a number of local initiatives and projects.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/our-vision/outreach:
The University of Suffolk is committed to supporting and encouraging students in aspiring to higher education.
UniCamp is a summer school offering a university experience for students in Year 12 (or equivalent).
Students have the chance to take part in a variety of university-style subject tasters, preparing for university workshops, as well as team-building and social activities.
It is a fantastic opportunity for students to learn about higher education at the same time as developing key transferable skills that will be useful at university.
The University of Suffolk participates in the National Network for the Education of Care Leavers eastern region group to provide opportunities and support for looked after children and care leavers to progress to university including annual residential programmes, university application support and drop-in sessions to offer advice and support for starting university.
The Network for East Anglian Collaborative Outreach ( neaco ) aims to help young people from East Anglia with little or no experience of university to explore the world of higher education.
We work with students in Years 9-13 who live in areas identified by the Government with low rates of progression to higher education.
Neaco was established in 2017 and brings together the University of Suffolk with Anglia Ruskin University, University of Cambridge, University of East Anglia and Norwich University of the Arts as Consortium Partners, with Cambridge acting as lead partner.
We at the HE Family Zone recognise that it is sometimes nicer to talk parent to parent.
We have teamed up with 12 Suffolk based Parent Carer Ambassadors.
They are parents who have been through the process of supporting a young person's journey through higher education and want to share their experience.
It is their priority to give non-biased advice that focuses on giving you the tools you need to make informed decisions.
You can find our team at school parent events and university open days.
Outside of these events they have produced a collection of blogs, podcasts, and videos for you to access at your leisure.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/our-vision/sustainability:
We aim to embed core sustainable values and systems across all activities and operations.
The University of Suffolk takes a strategic approach to sustainable development across all its operations and activities.
Meeting our sustainable development objectives is crucial to students, staff, and the wider local community to which we share a vital academic and economic position across the region; coupled with an accountability to ensure the protection of the condition of our immediate and global environment through the pursuit of excellence in social and corporate responsibility.
The Sustainability Team is pleased to announce that the University of Suffolk has been awarded the EcoCampus Silver Award, an important milestone in our continued drive for environmental sustainability.
EcoCampus is a national environmental management framework designed specifically for the higher and further education sector.
It supports universities and colleges in developing robust Environmental Management Systems (EMS), helping to improve their environmental performance, meet legal obligations, and embed sustainability into core operations and culture.
This achievement reflects our ongoing commitment to embedding sustainable practices across the university - supported not only by our students and staff but championed by our senior leadership team.
It demonstrates how collective action and shared values can drive meaningful progress.
Together, we are building a greener university, p lease view our reports below to see how.
Justine is Head of Strategic Estate Management, and has been an environmental professor for more than 20 years.
Tim is the Sustainability Manager for our Estates team.
Thomas's role is principally concerned with developing and accelerating the implementation of the University’s Climate Action Plan.
64% decrease in Scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions between 2015/16 to 2021/22
5% waste to landfill in academic year 22-23
79 different species inhabiting our greenspaces
50000 kwh on-site Solar PV Array generated electricity
An event to explore the challenges for building a sustainable future will be hosted by the University of Suffolk as part of its topical Spotlight Suffolk series.
Two students from the University of Suffolk have won the top prize at a conference for their paper focusing on environmental governance in developing countries.
A senior leader for the environment and sustainability at Sizewell C has been appointed as a senior research fellow at the University of Suffolk’s Sustainability Institute.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/academic-schools:
Our courses are spread across four academic Schools.
Each School has its own expertise and ethos which is reflected in its portfolio of courses.
Work-based learning is an integral aspect of all our programmes and we have strong partnerships across a variety of sectors.
Our ethos is all about connecting People, Place and Society, especially through strong partnerships with government, social charities and enterprises, and media, cultural and heritage organisations.
Our Technology students learn how to develop secure software to meet tomorrow’s needs and craft immersive digital games that captivate and challenge.
Our philosophy is to ensure that our students are well equipped for their careers so that they can support patients now and in the future as care, technology and practice evolves.
This School brings together our science based subjects associated with the health sector, with state-of-the-art teaching and research spaces and dedicated specialist facilities for each subject.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/school-of-allied-health-sciences--:
Formed in September 2023, the School of Allied Health Sciences brings together our science based subjects associated with the health sector.
The School occupies state-of-the-art teaching and research spaces in the newly refurbished Health and Wellbeing Building and the iconic, James Hehir Building facing the waterfront, with dedicated specialist facilities for each subject
Our undergraduate BSc provision ranges from courses dedicated to Health and Care Professions such as, Diagnostic and Therapeutic Radiography, Paramedic Sciences and Physiotherapy, through to Sports and Exercise Sciences and Life Science courses which include Sport Performance Analysis, Sport and Exercise Science, Biomedical Science, Biological Sciences, Nutrition & Human Health and Wildlife, Ecology and Conservation Science.
In addition, we offer PgC/PgD courses in Enhanced Clinical Practice, Radiography Practice, Paediatric Imaging and Computed Tomography, and MSc courses in Advanced Clinical Practice, Advanced Radiography Practice and Diagnostic Radiography.
We also offer short courses in Non-Medical Prescribing.
In early 2024, we launched a new BSc course in Dental Hygiene and Dental Therapy as we continue to grow our provision in Allied Health Sciences.
We work closely with health and social care practice providers across Suffolk, Norfolk, Essex, and Cambridgeshire.
Whether you're looking to study an undergraduate , postgraduate or apprenticeship degree , or looking to build your skills and knowledge through Continuous Professional Development (CPD) , the University of Suffolk offers lots of opportunities for you to explore.
Interested in studying a degree apprenticeship?
Learn more about our innovative partnership, The East of England Centre of Excellence for Health Apprenticeships (CEHA) aimed to revolutionize the delivery of apprenticeships in the fields of health and social care careers.
Ruth is Head of Allied Health Professions and Associate Professor in Diagnostic Radiography.
Christopher is Head of Life Science.
His research studies animals at all levels, from their molecular and cell biology to their behaviour and ecology.
Paula is the Dean of Health, Sciences and Society
Carolyn is Head of Placements and Health Partnerships and the role focuses on quality enhancement.
A recent research evaluation by the University of Suffolk has confirmed the positive effects of Chronicle’s Snapshot Memory Box on the wellbeing of older adults including those living with early-stage dementia and/or Alzheimer’s, as well as those at risk of loneliness and isolation.
The University of Suffolk will play a key role in a new £4.5 million research project which aims to improve healthcare in disadvantaged urban communities and rural and coastal areas of England.
In the School of Allied Health Sciences we have a number of Visiting Academics that take guest lectures and enhance the learning experience.
Formerly the service user and carer group, Health Voices is an inclusive group listening to citizens, students, staff, charities, and communities.
Health Voices has a shared vision with the School of Nursing, Midwifery and Public Health, and the School of Allied Health Sciences to embed diverse voices at the heart and centre of health education and research.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/school-of-nursing-midwifery-and-public-health--:
Get closer to your future in Nursing, Midwifery and Public Health with the University of Suffolk
Embark on a transformative journey and explore our courses, where we help students become a confident, highly sought-after healthcare professional ready to lead with care and make a real difference.
Students feel supported every step of the way throughout their learning and placements with wrap around support from our expert academic and placement teams.
Our £15m state-of-the-art on-campus facilities allow students to develop clinical skills in realistic simulation environments.
Students impact real lives when learning comes to life during clinical and work-based health placements.
We work closely with practice and placement partners across Suffolk, Norfolk, Essex, and Cambridgeshire ensuring our students gain real-world experience across environments such as NHS wards, GP surgeries, and community care settings, ensuring students are ready for the diverse demands of a healthcare career.
We also offer nursing students the opportunity to experience Japanese healthcare via an international exchange programme .
Build your network for life.
Most of our healthcare courses guarantee employment upon completion and Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) professional registration where required.
We aid you to have the best career opportunities as a work-ready graduate.
So, whether you're looking to study an undergraduate , postgraduate or apprenticeship degree , or looking to build your skills and knowledge through training and Continuous Professional Development (CPD) , the University of Suffolk offers lots of opportunities for you to explore.
Quick links Practice Assessor Preparation training
Jo Divers is Associate Dean for Learning, Teaching and Practice Education and is a Midwife and Specialist Community Public Health Nurse.
Fiona is Head of Subject for Midwifery and Lead Midwife for Education.
Gill is Head of Nursing with a career in cancer and palliative/end of life care and was matron in this area for 20+ years.
Emma is Head of Apprenticeships and Senior Lecturer in Mental Health Nursing.
Mandi is Project Manager for the Centre of Excellence for Health Apprenticeships
Laura is the School Manager for the School of Business, Arts, Social Sciences and Technology at the University of Suffolk.
Within the School of Nursing, Midwifery and Public Health we have a number of Visiting Academics that take guest lectures and enhance the learning experience.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/school-of-social-sciences-and-humanities:
We pride ourselves on being a transdisciplinary and collaborative academic community, working together to create new knowledge to transform understandings of society and the world around us.
As a School, we offer exciting placement opportunities for learners to build their professional and personal confidence, harnessing their knowledge and skills to work with others in exciting and impactful ways.
We deliver excellence and innovation in all areas of learning and teaching, research, and knowledge exchange.
Subject areas include: Psychology, Law, Sociology and Criminology, Politics, History, English and Creative Writing, Childhood Studies, Education, Counselling and Social Work.
The School puts a strong emphasis on graduate employability and equips students with the creative and critical skills they need for career success in the mid-21st century.
New research from the University of Suffolk has reported that a community-based diabetes service in north-east Essex has delivered better patient outcomes than other primary care services across England while reducing red tape for workers over the last decade.
In the School of Social Sciences and Humanities we have a number of Visiting Academics that take guest lectures and enhance the learning experience.
David is Head of Law and Social Sciences, and sees himself as an educator dedicated to helping students to learn effectively within the social sciences.
Wendy is Associate Dean for the School of Health, Sciences and Society
Michael is Associate Professor of History and an historian of early modern Europe, with specialisations in intellectual history and the history of science.
Jo is Professor of Social Work and Post Graduate Research.
She's known internationally for her work on practice learning, and writes on PREVENT and social work.
Professor Sarah Corrie is Professor of Cognitive Behaviour Therapy and Counselling as well as being the joint Head of Counselling, Psychology and Social Work.
Dr Rachael Martin is the Course Leader for the MSc Applications of Psychology.
Stephen is the course leader for the postgraduate LLM in Criminal Law and Justice.
He is a non-practising solicitor with various areas of expertise.
Darragh is Course Leader, BA (Hons) English and writes novels, plays, and stories for children.
Marianna is a Senior Lecturer in Childhood and Education.
Duncan is the Course Leader MA International Relations, Course Leader Criminology
Harvey is Course Leader for History at the University of Suffolk and a historian of modern Britain.
Alina is a Senior Lecturer in Sociology and Politics and Course Leader for Sociology.
Social Work Voices is a group of individuals with lived experience and knowledge of Social Work and Social Care services.
The group is embedded in Social Work education at the University and Suffolk County Council.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/school-of-technology-business-and-arts:
This School is the ideal interdisciplinary collaborative home for people with inquisitive minds and a passion to solve problems.
Our Business students are nurtured to become future entrepreneurs and corporate leaders.
Our Arts students find their vision and express their boundless imagination.
Expert academics ignite intellectual exploration through research-informed teaching and industry practice, while state-of-the-art facilities and studios facilitate hands-on learning.
Digitally skilled, creative, and business ready, our graduates shape the future.
Will is Associate Dean for Learning, Teaching, and Student Experience, as well as Head of Business.
Nigel Ball is a Senior Lecturer with over 20 years’ experience as a design educator.
Chris was formerly a gameplay programmer who worked on various games, most notably Hidden: Source.
His teaching includes software design and AI for games.
Dan joined the university in December 2023 as Head of Apprenticeships.
In the School of Technology, Business and Arts we have a number of Visiting Academics that take guest lectures and enhance the learning experience.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/alumni-and-supporters/supporting-the-university:
By donating to The University of Suffolk you are investing in futures, supporting independence of thought and helping to transform lives through education.
Donate today or contact us at giving@uos.ac.uk .
"Giving is not about making a donation, it's about making a difference"
Donate Today
There are a number of ways you can make a gift to the University of Suffolk and we offer a variety of ways to donate below.
Your gift, regardless of size, can have an immediate and lasting impact on the lives of our students and the future of the University, our region and beyond.
Gift Aid gives an extra 25p for every £1 you donate.
If you’re a UK taxpayer, Gift Aid increases the value of your donations by 25% because we can reclaim the basic rate of tax on your gift at no extra cost to you.
The University of Suffolk is committed to working with donors and potential donors to understand their motivation and vision for the donations they make or intend to make to us.
We operate in accordance with our Code of Ethical Fundraising Practice and Fundraising Policy .
Donating via CAF Donate is quick and easy.
You can make a gift to the University please use the following banks details:
Account Name: University of Suffolk Foundation Sort code: 20-46-67 Account number: 73840441
We ask that you also make our Fundraising Team aware that you are making a gift this way by emailing giving@uos.ac.uk or calling the team on 01473 338000.
The University of Suffolk is pleased to accept gifts via Payroll Giving (also known as Give As You Earn).
Your donation is taken directly from your pre-tax salary, meaning that your donation reduces the amount of tax you pay each month.
For example making a £20 donation: As a 20% taxpayer: You pay £16 and receive a £4 reduction in tax.
As a 40% taxpayer: You pay £12 and receive an £8 reduction in tax.
If you are an employee of the University of Suffolk you can make a gift to us this way by completing the Give As You Earn form .
If you are a friend of the University and would like to make a gift to us via payroll giving you will need to contact your payroll department/provider and ask them to set this up.
To discuss this in more detail please contact 01473 338000 or email .
Donations can also be made by post if you have been giving one of our donation forms and free-post envelopes.
You can make a single donation or set up a regular donation.
The completed form can be returned using the pre-paid postage or returned by hand to the Ipswich Waterfront Building Reception.
If you would like a hardcopy of the donation form sent to you, please contact the Alumni Relations and Development Team by emailing giving@uos.ac.uk or calling 01473 338000 .
Alternatively, you can post a cheque payable to University of Suffolk Ltd.
Please make us aware with an email to giving@uos.ac.uk
Gifts to the university serve to form a major part of our future, allowing us to engage our communities in different and interesting ways.
By leaving a legacy gift you are helping us to meet our ambitions to create change.
Join our donor community today and help to shape and drive the success of the University.
University of Suffolk is an exempt charity under the Charities Act 2011, regulated by the Office for Students (OfS) and a company limited by guarantee.
Registered in England and Wales, company number 05078498, registered address: Waterfront Building, Neptune Quay, Ipswich, IP4 1QL.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/alumni-and-supporters/your-alumni-community:
Your journey with University of Suffolk doesn't end with graduation.
As a graduate, you have access to a wide variety of benefits and services through the Alumni Relations offer.
Our offer is flexible, and we continually adapt it to best meet the needs of our graduates.
Enjoy the perks being a University of Suffolk graduate:
*Applies to Ipswich, West Suffolk College and East Coast College graduates only.
Read some of our inspiring stories from our graduates, students and staff.
As a graduate of the university, you are in a unique position to continue to support your university.
Be our best ambassadors and be proud of your institution as you go out into the world and shout about your experiences of studying in Suffolk.
Support us by:
At whatever stage you are in your career, stay connected to us both now and into the future.
You are part of the history of the University, be part of our future too.
Keeping in touch with us could not be easier.
Remember we are only able to contact you about new benefits and services if we hold up-to-date contact details for you.
Please ensure that we have your current contact details via the update your details form .
If we have your updated email address you will receive three newsletters per year which will keep you up to date with the latest news from the University, what's on offer to you and more information on how you can be involved.
Summer Edition 2025
Winter Edition 2025
We want to celebrate their achievements while also fostering a sense of belonging on our Ipswich campus.
We will be celebrating a handful of our outstanding Alumni by placing commemorative plaques outside teaching rooms.
Each year we welcome a number of notable individuals to to be presented with Honorary Awards at our Graduation ceremonies.
Find out more about our previous and upcoming Honorary Graduates and Fellows.
Sarah joined as Development Director in September 2024.
She is responsible for managing relationships with alumni and raising funds for priority projects.
Kate is Alumni Relations and Development Manager, leading on all alumni activities and supporting fundraising across the University.
Natasha joined the University in July 2023 as the Grants and Gifts Officer.
She is responsible for grant applications and fundraising for the University.
Jane is responsible for the the day-to-day communications for the Alumni Relations and Development Team.
We can provide access to graduate and academic expertise, apprentices, state of the art facilities, Innovation, funding, KTPs, CPD and events.
Our graduates can continue to access the Careers, Employability and Enterprise Service post graduation in person and online via FutureMe.
Your data
The Alumni Relations and Development Team are committed to protecting your privacy, keeping your data safe and not doing anything with your personal data that you wouldn’t reasonably expect.
The Alumni Relations and Development Team supports the University through establishing and growing relationships with stakeholders, developing and growing our Alumni Community and raising philanthropic funds to enhance opportunities for our students, staff and local communities.
The team report directly to the Marketing, Communications and International Directorate.
The privacy notice makes you aware of how and why your personal data will be used as Alumni of the University of Suffolk and how long it will be retained for.
Registered in England and Wales, company number 05078498, registered address: Waterfront Building, 19 Neptune Quay, Ipswich, IP4 1QJ.
Contact details
Email: Alumni@uos.ac.uk Address: University of Suffolk, Waterfront Building, 19 Neptune Quay, Ipswich IP4 1QJ
Tel: 01473 338000

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/alumni-and-supporters/new-graduates:
Congratulations, you did it!
You’ve passed the exams, handed in that final assignment, got your results and celebrated your graduation, so what now?
As a graduate of University of Suffolk, you are now a lifelong member of our vibrant Alumni Community consisting of thousands of likeminded individuals.
Tapping into the support available both within the alumni community and within the University could help you at any point in your career.
Remember we are only able to stay in contact with you about new benefits and services if we hold up-to-date contact details for you.
Use this form to keep your details up to date Alumni Update Your Details (office.com)
Get in touch with our award-winning careers team who are here to support you to explore, develop and shape your future.
You can contact them any time after graduating as we offer you lifelong support.
Follow the Alumni Relations social media for regular updates and opportunities.
You can also contact the team through the platforms and we will also share your good news, opportunities and successes.
The Alumni Relations and Development Team is now your first point of contact.
You can contact the team on Alumni@uos.ac.uk at any point.
Upon graduation, you automatically become part of the Alumni Community.
The team will contact you within a few weeks of graduation with further details on the types of benefits and services you now have access to.
Following this the team will contact you via email three times a year with our Alumni Newsletter and Alumni News - you will be able to opt out of these emails if you wish.
We will only contact you further via email if we have specific offers or opportunities outside of the Alumni Newsletters.
You can contact the team any time to update your preferences.
As a graduate you have access to a wide variety of benefits and services through the Alumni Relations offer.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/events:
There are currently no events for this period.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/visit-us/open-days:
Whether you are just getting started on researching your options, or have already applied to study at the University of Suffolk, an Open Day is the best place to get answers to all of your questions.
Our Open Days will give you a taste of student life while you explore our waterfront campus, view the accommodation, join subject talks with academic staff, and chat to our students.
All Open Days at Suffolk will have plenty of opportunities for you to chat informally with staff and students, including with our teams who can provide information, advice and guidance on student finance, admissions, graduate careers, and disability and wellbeing support.
Whatever stage you are at in making your decisions about university, you will find a warm welcome and community eager to share what is on offer at Suffolk.
Saturday 4 October 2025 9.30am–2.30pm
Saturday 15 November 2025 9.30am–2.30pm
An Open Day is your opportunity to find out everything you need to know about becoming part of our student community.
We structure the event to give you plenty of opportunities to find out about your subject(s) of choice, tour our beautiful campus and specialist facilities, visit our accommodation, and explore the fantastic support available to you throughout your studies.
The programme for your event will be available before the event date, but all Open Days are structured in the same way.
You should therefore plan to:
We’d love to welcome you to the University of Suffolk to explore our campus, meet our staff, and get a feel for student life here.
We know that travel costs can sometimes be a barrier, so we’re here to help.
If you're travelling a long way (a round trip of 150 miles or more) or meet our widening participation criteria, we can to offer up to £50 towards your travel expenses to make your visit a little easier.
Click below for full details and criteria.
Financial support for Open Days
The buildings and specialist teaching facilities are fully accessible with lifts and ramps throughout the campus.
Campus tours will require some walking across the campus, but the majority of the events will be held in the Waterfront Building.
If you have any specific accessibility requirements that you wish to discuss before your visit please add these details to your registration form or contact us on Ask a Question
Our University car park will be free on campus for our open events, a member of our team will be at the car park to meet you upon your arrival and help direct you to the registration point.
Please follow directions to Long St, Ipswich, IP3 8AH.
Please note that Duke Street car park is pay and display, and is owned and managed by an external company and not the University.
Any other car parks, apart from the University car park, will be chargeable.
There will also be a campus map in the programme which you will receive prior to your visit and some hard copies will be available on the day.
Take a stroll through Ipswich with our exclusive map, designed by our talented and award-winning Graphic Design graduate, Sammi Wong.
Discover key landmarks and hidden gems as you explore the town at its finest!
Yes, please have a look at the schedule for Saturday events which will give you an idea of what times talks are happening so you can plan when to arrive (please note that this is subject to change).
Please come to the welcome desk where we will be able to register you for the event and give you all of the information that you need for the day.
For evening events if you haven't registered please do not worry, just report to the registration desk when you arrive and they will register your attendance.
Yes of course, friends and family members are welcome to join you at the event.
Where possible we fit everyone into talks but in the event that there are a lot of attendees we occasionally ask that just the registered person and one guest attend the talks.
Yes, there are academic members of staff representing all subjects as well as a drop-in session at the event.
Even if you don’t make a subject talk, our staff will be happy to talk to you on a one-to-one basis about the course.
Accommodation tours will be available throughout the event at our on campus accommodation.
Members of staff from our Student Life team will also be available to discuss other off-site accommodation options with you.
Yes, there will be plenty of opportunity for you to talk to current students.
We will have a number of student ambassadors available during the day who will happily answer questions, as well as our Students’ union.
Absolutely!
There will be refreshments available during the event as well as a range of catering options across the waterfront available.
Yes, our friendly Admissions team will be available throughout the event to give you advice on applying to your chosen course.
You will also be able to speak to the academic available and they will be able to offer you advice.
We will have a range of different teams available on the day for you to talk to including; Finance, Careers, Admissions, Accommodation, Disability and Wellbeing and Learning Services.
Suffolk offers a rich and diverse cultural life, with bustling towns, thriving bars, restaurants and cafés, and an extensive arts scene and entertainment calendar.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/events--open-lectures:
The University of Suffolk Open Lecture Series is a high-quality events programme featuring world-renowned speakers, showcasing academic excellence both inside and outside the University.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/events/graduation:
Graduation is one of our favourite events of the year.
It's a time to celebrate your hard work and achievements, and to mark the start of your next adventure.
We hope you have enjoyed your studies with us and we will be very sad to see you go.
That said, we look forward to welcoming you to our Alumni Community, and maybe even to your Masters or PhD !
You can find information about the 2025 graduation ceremonies, including what to do on the day,  FAQs, and the dates and times, by following the links below.
#UniSuffolkGrad
We can't wait to celebrate the achievements of our students at the annual graduation ceremonies on the Ipswich Waterfront - find all the information you need to know here, in one place.
Dive into your Graduation brochure, packed with congratulations and essential details about your upcoming ceremony.
Discover how we’re here to champion you as you embark on your exciting journey after graduation.
Let’s celebrate this milestone together!
Find out more information about this event, including registration, timings, gowning, photography and more.
The conferral of your award is when your award is officially granted and you are issued with your certificate.
The conferral dates for 2024/25 are as follows:
Please see the Certificates section below for details of how and when you will receive your certificate.
The 2025 graduation ceremonies will be held on the following dates:
For Winter conferral , students who have completed their studies and had their award agreed by an assessment board by Friday 13 December 2024 will be contacted by the Graduation Office in December and asked to complete the Graduation Registration form in OASIS by noon on Tuesday 14 January 2025.
For Spring conferral , students who have completed their studies and had their award agreed by an assessment board after 13 December 2024 and by Friday 4 April 2025 will be contacted by the Graduation Office from March onwards and asked to complete the Graduation Registration form in OASIS by noon on Tuesday 15 April 2025.
For Autumn conferral , students who have completed their studies and had their award agreed by an assessment board after 4 April and by Friday 5 September 2025 will be contacted by the Graduation Office from August onwards and asked to complete the Graduation Registration form in OASIS by noon on Tuesday 23 September 2025.
When the form is available for you to complete, you will be sent an email to your student email address and the personal email address that we have for you on our records.
A copy of this email will also be stored in your correspondence history in OASIS.
You do not need the email to be able to access the form, but you will not be able to see the Graduation Registration form in OASIS until the email has been sent.
Whether you are interested in attending the annual graduation ceremonies or not, it is important that you complete the registration form when asked to do so to ensure that we have a correct record of your name and address details.
This is the final opportunity for you to check your details and correct any misspelling of your name before your award is conferred and your certificate is issued.
We also need you to confirm your postal address for your certificate.
If you do not complete the form, we will not post your certificate.
When you complete the form, you will also be able to register your interest in attending the annual graduation ceremonies.
You will be invited to attend a particular ceremony.
It is not possible for you to change to another ceremony if the date or location is not convenient.
If you register your interest in attending, you will be contacted again with further information, including how to book your attendance, purchase guest tickets and order your gown.
It is important that all graduating students complete the Graduation Registration form when asked to do so.
On the day your award is conferred, you will be issued with your final Higher Education Achievement Report (HEAR) and a digital copy of your certificate (for those receiving University of Suffolk awards) via Gradintelligence.
Please note that your HEAR is your transcript, and the HEAR is only issued in digital format so you will not receive a paper copy.
Details about how and when you will receive the paper copy of your certificate are provided below.
For Winter conferral , certificates will be available for collection in person from the Waterfront Building in Ipswich from Monday 3 February to Friday 14 February 2025.
Any certificates that are not collected during this period will be posted by recorded delivery by the end of March to the address provided on the graduation registration form.
For Spring conferral , certificates will be available for collection in person from the Waterfront Building in Ipswich from Monday 12 May to Friday 23 May 2025.
Any certificates that are not collected during this period will be posted by recorded delivery by the end of June to the address provided on the graduation registration form.
For Autumn conferral , students who attend the graduation ceremonies in Ipswich and Great Yarmouth will normally be issued with their certificate on the day.
After the graduation ceremonies have taken place, certificates for students who did not attend (i.e.
those who graduated in absentia) will be available for collection in person from the Waterfront Building in Ipswich from Monday 27 October to Friday 7 November 2025.
Any certificates that are not collected during this period will be posted by recorded delivery by the end of December to the address provided on the graduation registration form.
If collecting your certificate in person , please remember to bring photo ID with you.
We will not release your certificate without proof of your identity and you will be asked to sign to confirm collection.
Certificates will be available for collection from the Waterfront Building on Monday to Friday between 9am and 4.30pm during the collection periods noted above.
We will not post certificates unless the address has been confirmed and/or updated in the graduation registration form.
Please note that for graduates from British School of Commerce, London School of Commerce Malta, Hanbridge Institute, Rushmore Business School and Unicaf, certificates will be couriered to the headquarters of the partner institution for onward distribution.
It is not possible for certificates to be issued before the awards have been conferred.
Please note that the name shown on your certificate will be your full name as held on your student record.
When you complete the graduation registration form you will be asked to confirm that your name is correct or to let us know if any corrections are required.
It is your responsibility to ensure that your name is correct before your award is conferred .
The University will not reissue a certificate to change a name once the award has been conferred.
For information about how we use your data for the purposes of the graduation ceremonies and conferral of awards, please see the Graduation Privacy Notice.
All students on an eligible course at the University of Suffolk will be issued with an electronic Higher Education Achievement Report (HEAR), which replaces the traditional transcript and diploma supplement - find out more about what this contains, who is eligible, when they are issued and more.
Have a question about the 2025 graduation ceremonies in Ipswich?
Take a look at our FAQs to find out more.
Each graduation ceremony in Ipswich will be livestreamed via this webpage .
The stream will go live 15 minutes before the ceremony is due to start.
Recordings of the ceremonies will be available for download after the ceremony.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/find-us:
The University of Suffolk is based on the beautiful waterfront in Ipswich, the county town of Suffolk, within close proximity to London, a number of international airports and Harwich Ferry Terminal — perfectly located to welcome you from across the UK and the globe.
Visitors to the University should use Duke Street car park (IP3 0AQ).
Please refer to the IPSERV website for further information and other car parks in the area.
For information on parking for open events, visit our Open Days page.
View the IPSERV Car Park privacy notice .
There is disabled parking in our car parks for staff and students, and also directly behind the Waterfront Building on Coprolite Street.
Duke Street car park also contains disabled parking bays for visitors to the University.
The University is approximately a 15–20 minute walk from Ipswich train station.
Alternatively, a taxi rank can be found immediately outside the station.
Use this map to get around our Ipswich campus, located on the beautiful waterfront.
A contemporary boutique hotel located on the stunning Ipswich waterfront.
Discounts are available for conference attendees.
Please contact your event organiser for more information.
On the doorstep of the modern, vibrant quayside and a stone’s throw from the River Orwell.
Located in a great spot for the Ipswich Waterfront and within easy walking distance of the town centre.
Make yourself at home in the luxurious 4-star Novotel Ipswich Centre hotel, just a few steps from the vibrant waterfront and city centre.
Information about our main Ipswich campus, our two partnerships with local Further Education colleges located in the region and our London Centre.
The University of Suffolk is committed to encouraging sustainable and greener travel for our staff and students along with benefits and incentives.
Here you can find ways in which the University can support you in adopting an eco-friendly way of travelling to and from the University.
Can't make it to visit us in person?
Explore our incredible waterfront campus from the comfort of your own home with our virtual tour

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/visit-us/unibuddy-chat-to-our-staff-and-students:
Unibuddy allows you to chat to our friendly student ambassadors and academic staff, and ask them any questions you might have about our university and courses, student accommodation, and anything else about student life and what university is like.
Your questions will be answered by people who have been through it all, giving you the confidence to make an informed decision and easy transition into university life.
Send us a message today - we're here to help!

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/working-for-us:
Our values are guiding principles that drive our purpose and direction as a university.
They lay the foundations for what we care about most and in how we operate to deliver our vision.
We are Transformative, Collaborative, Empowering, Professional, Creative and Inclusive.
We are an institution built upon strong values: We are Transformative, Collaborative, Empowering, Professional, Creative and Inclusive.
We want to recruit and retain individuals who share our values and common purpose and who can inspire others to flourish and to thrive.
We are a new and innovative Dental Social Enterprise and unique partnership with the University of Suffolk and Suffolk and North East Essex Integrated Care Board that truly wants to make a difference to people through the delivery of accessible NHS dental care.
The University of Suffolk Dental CIC represents a step-change in dental care in Suffolk and North East Essex and we are looking for passionate, talented people to join us.
Don’t be afraid to ask questions!
From the simple, practical things like where rooms are to the more team-specific queries – there are so many people around that are happy to help you.
- Gemma Cole, Student Information Administrator
Friendly, Proactive and Nurturing.
- Lauren Smith, Business Partner for Culture, Organisational Development and Workforce Transformation
The Waterfront Foyer offers a wonderful glimpse into the vibrant life of the University—serving as a constant reminder of our purpose and mission.
- Simon Smith, Marketing and Campaigns Manager
It's a welcoming environment - don't be shy.
And there's no such thing as a silly question.
- Graham Martindale, Head of Library and Learning Services.
We are a 'university within a university' — a place where individuals continually learn, develop and grow.
We are a Hive Employee Voice Certified organisation – we're dedicated to improving employee experience, through the power of employee voice.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/clearing:
Whether your plans have changed or you're just getting started, explore your options and take control of your future
Clearing is your opportunity to take control, explore your options, and find the course and university that truly fit you.
Whether you already have your results or you're still waiting, this is your chance to make a choice that aligns with your goals — and we’re here to support you every step of the way.
Our dedicated team is ready to answer your questions, guide you through the process, and help you feel confident in your decision.
Choosing a university is a big step, but you don’t have to do it alone.
APPLY NOW ONLINE
CALL OUR CLEARING HOTLINE +44 (0)1473 338352 TO APPLY
Clearing is another opportunity to secure a place at university if you haven't already, Clearing opens on UCAS from 5 July 2025, you can apply to the University of Suffolk from 1 July.
Clearing runs through until September.
During Clearing, you can apply directly to a university rather than via UCAS.
You can apply directly to us if you:
You can call our Application Hotline on +44 (0)1473 338352 to speak to one of our Admissions Advisers.
Lines are open 9.00am–5.00pm (Monday to Thursday) and 9.00am–4.45pm (Friday).
Extended Application Hotline opening hours:
We’ll take a few basic details from you, such as your contact information and your qualifications.
We'll then advise if we can consider you for the course you’re interested in.
Sometimes, we’ll even be able to make you an informal offer during the call.
For some courses we may need further information from you such as a portfolio or you may be required to attend an interview.
Before you call, have the following ready:
Course vacancies will be listed in the UCAS course search tool or you can search for your course in our Course Finder .
We recommend that you call our Application Hotline on +44 (0) 01473 338352 (from 1 July) to find if your qualifications meet the requirements for your chosen course.
We can also advise you on alternatives or give you some general advice on next steps.
MORE QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
We’re here to help you feel confident, informed, and ready.
Whether you’re exploring your options or gearing up to apply, here are some simple next steps to support your journey
The University of Suffolk has an international profile while being committed to our region.
in the UK for Lecturers and Teaching Quality
in the UK for Student Support
in the UK for Facilities
"I applied, spoke to a module leader, had an interview and within a couple of weeks I knew I had a place...Joining though Clearing doesn’t mean your experience is going to be any different"

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/news/university-of-suffolk-wins-university-of-the-year-at-whatuni-awards:
The University of Suffolk has scooped three awards at the prestigious WhatUni Student Choice Awards 2025, including the top accolade of being named University of the Year.
The awards, known as WUSCAs, are based on student feedback, reviews and recommendations, with the University being shortlisted for seven categories this year.
At an event in London on Wednesday night, the University of Suffolk won a trio of awards – University of the Year, Lecturers and Teaching Quality, and Student Support.
Suffolk also scooped three silver awards for Facilities, International and Postgraduate, and was shortlisted in the Students’ Union category for 2025.
Professor Jenny Higham, Vice-Chancellor at the University of Suffolk, said: “These awards are fantastic recognition for the University’ commitment to providing a high-quality experience, and I would like to thank the students whose generous feedback has helped make this happen.
“It is wonderful to see that our students value their teaching and support services so highly, and that is testimony to all our staff and our Students’ Union who work tirelessly to help them to succeed.” This year’s prizes followed a successful awards last year, when the University won the submission-based award for Career Coaching and Work Placements, and second spot in the Career prospects category.
To find out more about courses on offer at the University, visit the website here .
To find out more about the WUSCAs, see the online page here .
FIND OUT MORE ABOUT CLEARING AND STUDYING IN 2025
If you are thinking about studying in 2025, Clearing is open, you can apply now and book onto a campus tour to see the University of Suffolk for yourself.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/applicant-area/preparing-to-start:
Induction is an important first step in your student journey here with us at the University of Suffolk.
The events and activities you participate in will vary depending on your course.
Detailed information about your first week’s timetable will be included in your course timetable.
Start dates will be published below and you will receive an email letting you know when they are available.
Once enrolled, you can also view your start date via your calendar.
If you have any questions about Enrolment, check out our Enrolment FAQs .
Welcome Week is an important first step in your student journey here with us at the University of Suffolk.
We will provide you with online information and resources and detail when you should start attending in-person events on campus, and we can’t wait to meet you!
Remember to check back here on a regular basis as it will be updated as more details are confirmed.
If you are an international student travelling to the UK, check out our International Starters Guide for detailed information and top tips about starting your studies with us.
Brightspace is the platform you will use to access your course content, module guides, assessment submission portals and your future results!
We have an introductory video on how to use the platform.
If you’re holding a conditional offer, make sure you send copies of your results (certificates and/or transcripts) to Admissions if they aren’t shared through UCAS.
Respond quickly to any requests for additional information e.g.
evidence of highest qualifications, fee assessment questionnaires, DBS forms, Occupational Health forms (Health and Social Work students) or references, to avoid any delays to your enrolment.
If you applied from abroad and are coming to the UK on a student visa, please visit our designated pages for international students .
All new students will be required to demonstrate they have sufficient Right to Study permission, or relevant exemption if you are a British or Irish national.
The information you will need, and when we will ask for the information, varies depending on your immigration permission or nationality.
Our Right to Study page provides more detailed information on what you need to prepare and when you will be asked to show this.
As a new student you will be invited to join Brightspace , the online learning environment at the University of Suffolk.
You can use Brightspace on your browser, but for the best experience, download the Brightspace Pulse app for Android or iOS.
The Pulse app is designed to bring news, deadlines and grades together in one place and will help you to keep track of important updates.
This takes place shortly before your course starts.
We will send you an email inviting you to complete enrolment online via the Applicant Area as soon as your enrolment is ready.
During the enrolment process you will confirm the information we hold about you, choose your modules and tell us how your fees will be paid.
If you have any questions, check out our Enrolment FAQs page .
It’s important to upload a photograph of yourself to the Applicant Area (under the Manage My Application section) before starting so your student ID card can be produced and given to you during Welcome Week.
This will give you access to our buildings and specialist facilities.
Your ID card will also get you those all-important student discounts!
Your course timetable will be released in late August – make sure you check the details for your Induction week.
You can find more information on Timetables here .
Your Induction will focus on final preparations, an introduction to your course and modules, and a number of Students’ Union activities.
Your lectures will start in the following weeks.
It’s important to engage with Induction to ensure you have the information you need to get started.
Familiarise yourself with our campus and identify where you need to go on your first day.
You can find this under Start Dates above.
If you are still unsure, visit the Waterfront Building reception where our friendly team will assist you.
Car parking will be very busy and parking spaces limited during Welcome Week.
We encourage you to find alternative ways to get to us.
If you do have to travel by car, remember to apply for a car parking permit via Brightspace once enrolled.
Please bring your ID, such as a passport, driving licence, national identity card, PASS card, or similar proof of age document.
If you cannot present ID at registration, you will need to visit the Student Centre later to have it checked.
Check out all the events on offer from your Students' Union during Welcome Week and beyond

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/news/clearing-opens-at-university-of-suffolk:
Clearing allows students to apply for remaining courses by contacting the University directly, rather than through the usual UCAS cycle.
Those applying through Clearing can include students who haven’t received any offers, those who haven’t met the grades or conditions for their first choice, have turned down offers made to them, have changed their mind about where they want to go or what to study, and those who didn’t apply through UCAS before 30 June.
In recent years, increasing numbers of students have applied through Clearing who haven’t applied as part of the main UCAS cycle.
UCAS data published in June this year indicated that traditional Clearing applicants – those who didn’t secure the grades they needed – now represented just 24 per cent of total Clearing applications nationally, five percentage points lower than in 2023, with more older and non-traditional students applying later.
Among courses available at Suffolk for 2025 are Accounting and Finance, Adult Nursing, Business Management, Computing, Esports, Graphic Design, Psychology, and Sport and Exercise Science.
The University of Suffolk won the University of the Year prize at this year’s Whatuni Student Choice Awards, as well as awards for lecturers and teaching quality, and student support.
Those awards are based on student reviews, feedback and recommendations.
In addition, student satisfaction scores were above the national average in all themes in the 2025 National Student Survey.
The University works with employers in the region to aid students with placement opportunities and careers support, while bursary opportunities are also available for some courses to help with costs.
Professor Jenny Higham, Vice-Chancellor at the University of Suffolk, said: “August can be an important and exciting time for prospective students, making the next step of their journey into university.
We would like to reassure applicants that it isn’t too late to join us this autumn.
“We would encourage those considering a place to call us on our Clearing hotline and speak to our helpful Admissions Advisors.
“We have a range of courses open to applicants, and with our strong student satisfaction scores, quality teaching, excellent teaching facilities and beautiful waterfront location, we know Suffolk is a real destination of choice.
“We will have a warm welcome ready for every one of our new students arriving this autumn.”
Flo Durrant was among the students to join the University through Clearing in September 2024, securing a place on the Physiotherapy course.
An administrative error on the results from one of her qualifications meant Flo, from Hertfordshire, didn’t have any offers from the universities she applied for, leaving her having to apply through Clearing.
Flo looked on the Whatuni website to see which universities offered Physiotherapy through Clearing, and contacted Suffolk, which was able to make her an offer the same day.
She quickly secured accommodation and joined an open day two days later to see the campus.
“It was a stressful feeling at the time but I stayed calm which helped me so much,” says Flo, whose first year has included setting up a new women’s football team, as well as getting involved in the Students’ Union and becoming a course rep.
“When I called the Clearing line they were really nice.
I was obviously a little bit stressed but they were so lovely.
“When I had my interview with the course team that’s when I knew if I got a place I would definitely accept it, because they were really nice.”
Flo added: “I’ve really enjoyed my experience this year.
Out of all the unis I looked around Suffolk has the best physio facilities.
I know all my lecturers really well and they know me really well, and it’s a really supportive environment.”
The University’s Clearing hotline is already open, with the Admissions team able to support prospective students, while course tutors are also available to answer course-specific queries.
Prospective applicants are advised to have their grade certificates and UCAS number (if applicable) to hand when contacting the Clearing hotline to ensure the process is as easy as possible.
Campus tours will also be available for Clearing applicants, beginning on Friday 15 August and continuing throughout the following week.
Campus tours can be booked at the website here .
To find out more information, visit the website here .
To speak to the Admissions team or make an application, call the Clearing hotline on 01473 338352.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/news/art-students-create-work-for-suffolk-mental-health-wards:
The collaboration between Norfolk and Suffolk NHS Foundation Trust (NSFT) and the Fine Art course at the University of Suffolk began with commissions for Lark and Poppy wards at Woodlands in Ipswich.
The ongoing partnership is now working on another artwork commission for the older adult ward, Willows, at Woodlands in Ipswich.
Kayleigh Brooks, a final year Fine Art student, has completed two panels for inside the ward and is due to work on two large panels for the exterior courtyard gardens.
Funds for the initial project were raised by service user Andrew Colley, who completed a sponsored walk around the coast of East Anglia in 2022.
Andrew has since completed another fundraiser, walking 200km in May from Southwest France over the Pyrenees and into Spain, towards enhancing ward environments at Wedgwood House in Bury St Edmunds.
The project has been co-ordinated by Senior Lecturer Jane Watt from the University of Suffolk and Lead Art Psychotherapist Maggie Batchelar at the Trust.
Maggie said: “The King’s Fund wrote about art in hospitals back in 2016 saying there is growing evidence to support the widely-held belief that art can influence the health and wellbeing of patients and staff in health care settings, something which goes way back in time to the Medieval period and 18th and 19th centuries.”
The project for Lark and Poppy Wards was influenced by arts charity Hospital Rooms, which embarked on its first project outside London at Woodlands in 2016 and has recently just seen the culmination a huge project at The Rivers Centre new wards at Hellesdon Hospital.
This joint partnership supports BA (Hons) Fine Art students as part of their second-year professional engagement module whereby they work with a range of organisations and community groups to develop art projects outside the university.
That work includes creating designs to a specific brief, pitching to the client and delivering the commission to a deadline.
Jane said: “The partnership with NSFT has given the students a chance to gain valuable professional experience and skills.
For the commission with Woodlands, students visited the wards where possible and talked with patients and staff about the environment, to better inform their designs.
This offered opportunities to bridge conversations about mental health and recovery.
“It’s a great experience for students, as not only are they developing their creative ideas but also considering how they integrate practical solutions into their work, tailored to real-world environments.”
Artworks for the first wave were created by students Diane Legg, Jacqueline Wright and Kayleigh Brooks.
Kayleigh, who will graduate in the autumn, has just completed two artworks for Willows ward using acrylic on wood panels.
Kayleigh, from Peterborough, said: “I knew I wanted work that would provide calm to the space, I wanted to bring the outside world in, utilising summer colours.
“Through the process, some of the patients came up to me and said that art is really important, so I was able to show them mock-ups of what I had done so far, and the patients said they loved it.
That was very emotional.
“It’s also been really important to give me that experience navigating a professional project, and it is artwork in a community-based space where all sorts of people will see it.”
Maggie added: “We hope that the relationship with University of Suffolk will be ongoing and continue to be of mutual benefit, to students and to our service users receiving care and staff working in these spaces, as well as championing the role that art can play in wellbeing and healthcare environments.”
Chief Patient Experience officer and Deputy CEO Cath Byford congratulated the artists on their work and welcome the collaboration with the university.
“It’s great to see NSFT working with other partners in their localities to enhance the experience of our service users.
Art can have a huge effect on the environment on the wards and on the recovery of those who are being cared for,” she said.
To find out more about the Fine Art course at the University of Suffolk, visit the website here .

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/news/new-national-training-programme-tackles-criminal-exploitation:
The ‘Lived Experience Training Programme’ is a direct response to critical gaps in training and understanding identified in recent reports which have highlighted the urgent need for more effective, trauma-informed and victim-focused responses to child criminal exploitation.
This initiative is dedicated to building a national network of trainers equipped to deliver free, accredited training on child criminal exploitation, with a focus on trauma-informed, family inclusive responses.
The programme offers scalable training that features recorded testimony from survivors and is delivered using a Train-the-Trainer model.
This approach ensures that accredited, quality-assured training can reach professionals across sectors including policing, education, healthcare, and social care.
Dr Paul Andell, Associate Professor, Criminology, University of Suffolk said: “Practitioner feedback from participants suggests that using real voices and examples of those impacted by Child Criminal Exploitation and placing victimhood at the centre of the experience will help professionals develop a different focus and approach to their work which will ultimately improve the outcomes for victims.”
The programme was officially launched at an event on Monday 21 June, which was attended by policy makers and experts in the field as well as survivors and their families who co-created the resource.
One parent who attended the launch event and has first-hand experience of criminal exploitation, said: “This training plays a vital role in bridging the gap between theoretical knowledge and the real struggles that families experience, fostering empathy and enabling informed support.
My hope is to inspire a shift in how professionals engage with families, moving from a transactional approach to one rooted in collaboration and trust.”
The event also showcased the programme’s reach and impact to date and explored how organisations can implement the training in their own regions.
So far, 256 professionals have been trained through the programme, with a conservative estimation of an impressive reach of 7,680 professionals.
Feedback has been overwhelmingly positive, with 100% of participants stating they would recommend the training.
The programme has significantly strengthened multi-agency collaboration and communication, boosted safeguarding professionals’ confidence, and enabled earlier intervention through improved identification of risk and harm.
These outcomes have contributed to a reduction in revictimization and enhanced engagement with young people.
Dan Mitchell, Head of NCLCC said: “This programme marks a significant step forward in our national policing response to County Lines and child criminal exploitation.
“It equips frontline professionals with the tools to spot the early signs of exploitation, intervene effectively and support victims in a way that is trauma-informed and rooted in lived experience.
“By embedding this training across sectors, we’re not only enhancing our ability to safeguard vulnerable individuals, but we’re also strengthening our collective efforts to disrupt criminal networks and bring County Lines offenders to justice.”
The training also comes ahead of the introduction of three significant new criminal offences – Child Criminal Exploitation (CCE), Cuckooing and Coerced Internal Concealment – which have been introduced in the Crime and Policing Bill.
These offences, shaped in close collaboration with the NCLCC, aim to strengthen protections for vulnerable individuals and tackle exploitation head-on.
The programme forms a key part of NCLCC’s County Lines Policing Strategy 2024-27, which aims to prevent County Lines, protect children and vulnerable adults, prepare communities to mitigate harm and impact, and pursue offenders for offences including drug supply, modern slavery and weapons possession.
Dedicated County Lines teams from police forces across the country, funded via the national County Lines Programme, are working alongside Neighbourhood Policing Teams to deliver this strategy and reduce the devastating impact of County Lines on local communities.
This work aligns with HM Government’s Safer Streets mission, particularly its goals to halve knife crime and prevent criminal gangs from exploiting children.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/news/research-reports-better-patient-outcomes-from-north-east-essex-diabetes-service:
Researchers from the University’s Institute of Health and Wellbeing carried out an evaluation of the North-East Essex Diabetes Service (NEEDS), a community-based care model designed to provide a single point of access with clear continuity of care for people with diabetes.
The research, which included online surveys, focus groups and analysis of secondary data from more than 20,000 patients, found that “patient outcomes were higher than those recorded for other GP surgeries across England,” while “service users reported that they received support with more control over their care”.
The study found that the service achieved higher than the national average for patients completing all eight care processes recommended by NICE (National Institute of Health and Care Excellence), putting what was then known as the CCG (clinical commissioning group) and now known as the Integrated Care Board (ICB) first out of 74 in the country, based on figures from 2022.
It reported that 67 per cent of people living with diabetes in north-east Essex received all eight care processes compared to 38 per cent nationally in 2022.
Latest data to the end of 2024 from the service reported that had now increased to 76 per cent compared to 50 per cent nationally.
In addition, staff at the service said there was less bureaucracy as a result of the set-up and reported fewer hospital admissions for those patients.
It added that patients felt empowered with their care, which was instrumental in patients’ outcomes given diabetes requires self-management plans.
The study was published in the Journal of Interprofessional Care.
Professor Valerie Gladwell, Director of the University of Suffolk’s Institute of Health and Wellbeing, said: “Over the last decade nationally we have seen a rapid increase in the number of people with diabetes, causing thousands of additional deaths each year, creating further health problems and increasing demand on NHS services.
“Those with diabetes often have to navigate a piecemeal system where many providers deliver care over a range of services, which can often lead to fragmented and variable  patient outcomes.
“Our evaluation of the North-East Essex Diabetes Service has clearly found the service provides a holistic and integrated approach to care which has increased patients’ autonomy and delivered better patient outcomes than those recorded by other GP practices across England.
“The NEEDS model could have significant implications for practices within diabetes care and also for other long-term conditions.”
Diabetes UK figures presented in the research reported that more than 4.9 million people in the UK have diabetes, around 8 per cent of those type 1 diabetes and 90 per cent with type 2.
In north-east Essex alone, more than 18,400 people were reported to be living with diabetes at the time of the study, with a further 5,700 people estimated to be undiagnosed.
It means the percentage of people in north-east Essex living with diabetes equates to 7.3 per cent of the population – higher than the national average of 6.2 per cent.
Figures from the service since the research was published has indicated that the number of people in north-east Essex now living with diabetes has risen to 25,600.
NEEDS was formed in 2014 with the input of local health commissioners and Suffolk GP Federation, aiming to address issues with fragmented care, long travel distances to healthcare services and varied patient outcomes.
The service provides a single point of access for patients and an integrated care pathway through a diabetes specialist team, podiatrists and combined specialist multi-disciplinary team clinics.
An out-of-hospital specialist service designed to support healthcare in the primary sector was also developed as part of the service.
Sheila Smyth, Diabetes Service Manager, said: “We are really proud of the established diabetes services we have set-up in north-east Essex over the past 10 years.
They have withstood the test of time, through the pandemic and various changes in the NHS, and we have maintained top national ranking with care and patient outcomes.
“Our close working relationship with primary care means that the patient journey is smoother and care can be provided efficiently and effectively with fewer delays.
All of the team are passionate about providing an excellent, patient-led service.”
To find out more about the North-East Essex Diabetes Service, visit the website here .
The full journal article can be found online here .

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/study/bsc-biomedical-science:
Add to course compare
Biomedical science is a dynamic and rapidly evolving scientific discipline aimed at improving our understanding of human health and disease.
The course has a strong practical focus and it will provide you with a wide range of practical and analytical skills relevant to a career in biomedical science and wider.
Our aim is to help you progress to an employment-ready graduate and hence the course is designed to also equip you with a number of transferable skills that are so highly valued in the current, ever-changing, employment market.
This course utilises a multidisciplinary approach in order to provide you with knowledge of workings of human body at molecular, cellular, organ and systems level, in health and disease.
It covers the key aspects and principles of biochemistry, molecular biology, immunology, physiology and pathophysiology, histology and haematology.
The course benefits from a close working relationship with Ipswich Hospital and is taught by an international team of research-active academics.
Both of these ensure that the course is relevant to your future employment, is contemporary and at the forefront of science.
Further information about the university's relationship with the Institute of Biomedical Science (IBMS) is available in the PSRB register .
Accredited by the Institute of Biomedical Science (IBMS), the leading professional body for scientists, support staff and students in the field of biomedical science.
It can be used towards obtaining statutory registration as a biomedical scientist with the Health and Care Profession Council (HCPC) through completion of the IBMS Registration Training Portfolio and award of the IBMS Certificate of Competence.
in the UK for social inclusion
DNA is arguably the most important macromolecule in life and this module is designed to provide a solid foundation of knowledge on which students can build throughout the Bioscience degree programme.
Beginning with the fundamental concepts of DNA and it’s role in heredity and the genetic code, the module will build up through expression of genotype to phenotype and the control of gene expression.
A thorough understanding of human physiology and maintenance of homeostasis are key facets in a range of scientific disciplines.
In this module, students will study the way in which different cells, tissues, organs and organ systems contribute to homeostasis from a theoretical perspective.
This module is designed to give a solid foundation on which to build further study in biological science.
It will investigate the fundamentals of biochemistry starting from basic atomic structure and bonding to then focus on the structure, function and metabolism of macromolecules.
Students with differing levels of previous knowledge of chemistry and biology will be introduced to the range of processes taking place within the body at a molecular level.
Cells are the basic unit of all living organisms.
In this module, students will examine the structure and function of cells, and the signals that control eukaryotic cell division, adhesion, migration, and programmed cell death.
Students will analyse how cells contribute to animal physiology and disease, and be introduced to the techniques used to study cells in the laboratory.
This module will provide you with the core skills required to carry out basic scientific procedures and communicate your research in an appropriate scientific format.
The module is based on a series of practical sessions and is designed to develop the skills required for subsequent advanced modules on the course.
This module provides introduction to the role of Biomedical Scientists within the current UK health care provision landscape.
We will explore the role that Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) and Institute of Biomedical Science (IBMS) play in informing and overseeing education, training and continuing professional development of biomedical scientists in the UK.
Moreover, you will be introduced to professional standards and codes of practice specific to biomedical scientists.
This module prepares students for further study and employment by providing an understanding of what science is and how it works.
It introduces students to the principles of scientific research and the planning and design of experiments.
Students will learn how to effectively analyse literature and communicate science in a variety of methods.
The aim of this is to provide you with an introduction to the biology of microorganisms, to include bacteria, viruses, fungi and protists.
Furthermore, you will learn the basis of techniques and practical procedures commonly used in the field of microbiology, with an emphasis on analytical methods relevant in clinical analysis.
In addition, the significance of microbes in health and disease will be investigated, also with the support of current research literature.
Effective scientists need to understand how experimentation, qualitative and quantitative analysis drives science forward via the process of attempted falsification and how this is quantified and presented.
This module prepares students for further study and employment by providing an understanding of inferential statistical analysis of scientific data.
It will enable students to understand, interpret and apply most of the statistical techniques that they will see in published articles and allow them to emulate such analysis in their own work.
Health and disease may be considered two extremes of a continuum.
This module will explore the factors that set the graduations between the two extremes.
This module is designed to review the nature of and causation of diseases, by considering environmental, genetic, and biologic factors and link the characteristics of disease to the signs and symptoms utilised in diagnosis.
An understanding of the immunological process has been fundamental to many of the advances made in science and medicine.
In this module, you will explore the cellular basis of infection via pathogens and the immunological defense system the body deploys in order to prevent the development of infectious disease.
This module introduces you to the principles of nucleic acids manipulation and cloning.
The module will include a thorough background on DNA handling, manipulation and analysis.
The module will then detail the standard techniques by which DNA can be differently inserted into prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells, and its expression monitored.
Classic techniques will be presented together with the more advanced, cutting-edge technologies and approaches.
The dissertation will provide an opportunity for individuals to develop an area of scientific interest arising from either course-based or work-based experience.
The focus of the dissertation will be a research-based study, central to which will be some form of hypothesis testing or problem solving.
It will enable students to utilise practical, intellectual and decision making skills in novel situations.
This final year module aims to advance and apply your knowledge of what it means to be a Biomedical Scientist, the roles and responsibilities that this profession encompass, as well as to strengthen your understanding of the role that Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) and Institute of Biomedical Science (IBMS) play in training and continuing professional development of biomedical scientists in the UK.
The emphasis will be on reviewing professional standards and codes of practice as well as requirements for the HCPC registrations, including Registration Training Portfolio and Certificate of Competence.
Histology is the science that studies the minute structure, composition and function of tissues.
Every tissue is made of specialised cell components playing pivotal functions.
When these functions are altered, the cell dysfunctions are reflected into significant histological changes, which are studied in the realm of histopathology.
In this module, you will understand the different features and functions of the main classes of tissues, where cells exert specific functions.
Haematology and blood transfusion science are core clinical study areas within Biomedical Science.
This module will apply your knowledge of biochemistry, cell biology, genetics and immunology to the study of blood and the major proteins and cells that constitute blood.
We will start by studying main types of blood cells and their distinguishing features, to then go on to consider most common diseases of the blood including anaemias, coagulation disorders and blood malignancies.
This module is intended to allow you to draw together a wide range of topics covered at levels 4 and 5 into the applied area of pharmacology and toxicology.
This module utilises understanding and application of biochemistry, molecular biology, cell biology, genetics and physiology to solve problems.
The interdisciplinary nature of the field provides an ideal opportunity for you to contextualise your studies within an important progressive science.
The module will examine nutrition as it relates to the prevention and treatment of disease and deals with the nutritional aspects of diseases and clinical disorders by integrating students' existing knowledge of physiology, biochemistry and food science.
In this module students will also consider the nutritional requirements of humans throughout the lifespan; the changing physiological status and subsequent changes in nutritional requirements will be studied along with a critical appraisal of how this is met with respect to diet, sociological status, geography and education.
This module will provide you with theoretical knowledge and advanced practical experience of core laboratory techniques used to carry out experimental research within the life sciences area.
The module is based on a series of practical sessions and will give you experience of performing experimental work, collecting data, and interpreting and presenting results, using a range of media.
This module is designed to provide you with an overview of some fundamental developmental processes that lead to the formation of a multicellular organism from a single zygote, up to the gastrulation process.
The module will consider some key developmental models with cellular and molecular events underpinning both development and regeneration, therefore linking core stem cell biology knowledge.
Applicants are expected to hold A-level Biology or a Science related subject at Grade C or above.
All applicants are required to hold 5 GCSE's at grade C/4 or above including English, Maths and Science at Grade C/4 (or Level 2 equivalents).
Applicants who do not hold these qualifications may be considered on an individual basis based upon their overall application and the course applied for.
IELTS 6.0 overall (minimum 5.5 in all components) where English is not the student's first language.
You can read more about our English language requirements here.
Applicants whose first language is not English, but who have been living in the UK for 2 years or more will be expected to hold GCSE English at Grade C or above, (grade 4-9 for the new GCSEs) or the relevant Level 2 equivalent (if applicable).
Please select your country of permanent residence from the list below, specific requirements for your country will then be shown.
If you have previously studied at higher education level before you may be able to transfer credits to a related course at the University of Suffolk and reduce the period of study time necessary to achieve your degree.
Students aged 21 or over at the start of their course are regarded as mature students.
The University of Suffolk offers a flexible admissions policy for mature students, which takes into account life and work experience.
We anticipate you may wish to progress into laboratory-based careers in clinical or technical roles within NHS setting.
However, you will also be well placed to secure jobs as researchers working in universities, pharmaceutical and bioscience companies and institutes.
The transferable skills developed during the course will equip you for a wide range of careers outside the laboratory.
Federica is Associate Professor and Course Leader in Biomedical Science.
Imogen is a lecturer on the Biomedical Science and Bioscience degree courses.
Catia is Course Leader in the BSc (Hons) Dental Hygiene and Dental Therapy and has worked in cell research in several laboratories across Europe.
Vanessa is Lecturer in Nutrition and Human Health within Life Sciences across Nutrition and Human Health, Biomedical Science and Biological Science courses.
David is Senior Lecturer in Life Sciences (Maths) and a mathematician, statistician and learning developer.
Silvia is a Senior Laboratory Technical Learning Instructor, responsible for the running of Life Science laboratories and providing technical support.
Svetlana is a Life Science Technical Learning Instructor in the School of Allied Health Sciences.
Richard teaches and leads a number of modules on the School’s undergraduate programmes including BSc Nutrition and Human Health.
per year
*Please contact Student Centre for further information on part-time fees
You can apply for funding from the Spring before your course starts.
*Maximum tuition fees chargeable to Home-fee students are set by the UK Government normally in the autumn or early winter in the year prior to the year of entry (e.g.
autumn 2025 for entry in 2026/27).
The University of Suffolk reserves the right to increase tuition fees for 2026/27 if the UK Government increases the maximum annual fee.
**Please contact Student Centre for further information on part-time fees.
The University of Suffolk is offering a £1,000 Award for students joining the University of Suffolk’s Ipswich campus.
The Award is based on specific eligibility criteria based on your year of entry.
Our state-of-art laboratories are located in the James Hehir Building facilitate high quality practical skills teaching.
As well as a standard laboratory equipment, there is a range of key specialist equipment to support the practical elements of the modules including cell and tissue culture facilities, imaging facilities (light and fluorescent microscopes), 3D productivity suite, and molecular biology facilities.
You will have access to glassware, pipettes, centrifuges, low temperature and ultra-low temperature storage, analytical balances, there is a range of key specialist equipment to support the practical elements of the modules including chromatography, protein analysis, histology, microscopes, 3D productivity suite, cell biology equipment and molecular biology equipment.
To study this course on a full-time basis, you can apply in Clearing.
You'll need to provide evidence of your academic qualifications, and showcase your skills, qualities and passion for the subject.
The support at the University of Suffolk is beyond exceptional.
If I needed any help with taught content, or perhaps an assignment, my lecturers were just an email away.
The integrated Foundation Year provides students with the subject knowledge, study skills and personal confidence required to successfully progress towards obtaining a BSc (Hons) Biomedical Science degree.
Now you know more about the course, we can guide you through the next steps.
"The University of Suffolk empowered me to be better, to aim high and to make positive changes.
I found people here that inspired me and supported me through my journey."

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/study/bsc-computer-science:
Our flexible BSc (Hons) Computer Science degree equips you with the practical industry knowledge you need to meet the demand for skilled computing professionals.
The course offers a flexible computing curriculum with diverse learning pathways, with the freedom to forge your own course by selecting specialist modules.
You’ll benefit from the resources of leading tech giants Amazon Web Services, Juniper, Oracle, and our new Google Student Club, and experience world-class specialist labs at our state-of-the-art DigiTech Centre , which is home to over 150 high-tech ICT companies and BT’s innovation labs.
You’ll engage in real-world projects alongside industry leaders, leveraging cutting-edge technologies and embrace an annual slate of industry events and hackathons to apply your acquired skills.
BSc (Hons) Computer Science (Cyber Security)
BSc (Hons) Computer Science (Web and Mobile Development)
BSc (Hons) Computer Science (Artificial Intelligence)
Create your own pathway
Combine a wide range of modules in cyber security, software engineering, web design, mobile development, networking, data science, AI, cloud computing, and more, to create a custom curriculum.
This degree has been designed to allow you to flexibly follow your interests, whilst ensuring that you reach the advanced knowledge necessary for industry roles through theory and practice .
At the start of your course, you will be allocated a Personal Academic Coach who can explain the options and pathways available so you will always be supported in the decisions you make and can be sure they align with your career ambitions.
Students that choose to create their own pathway will be awarded a BSc (Hons) Computer Science degree upon completion of the course.
in the UK for feedback satisfaction in Computer Science and Information Systems
Our undergraduate programmes are delivered as 'block and blend', more information can be found on Why Suffolk?
You can also watch our Block and Blend video .
Downloadable information regarding all University of Suffolk courses, including Key Facts, Course Aims, Course Structure and Assessment, is available in the Definitive Course Record .
This module aims to provide you with a knowledge and understanding of the principles of computer systems, hardware components, the essence of operating systems, and relevant computing-related mathematics.
This module will provide the foundational underpinning to enable you to progress deeper into the disciplines of computing and networking and a grasp of the history of computing, recent developments, and its possible future.
You will gain the confidence that they can communicate with technical specialists.
In an increasingly digital world, networking and cyber security are critical foundations for information technology systems.
This module introduces you to the core principles of networking alongside basic cyber security concepts, allowing you to develop the skills necessary to configure, manage, and secure networks.
You will engage with hands-on learning tools such as Packet Tracer and other network simulators to build and protect simple networks, preparing them for further study and careers in IT and security.
The module introduces the concepts of web design, with a focus on designing responsive websites that are targeted at mobile platforms.
You are introduced to HTML, CSS and JavaScript to provide them with an understanding of what goes into the front-end of modern websites.
Using a series of case studies, you will analyse the design and layout of a range of existing sites using a number of common analysis techniques.
This module introduces you to the concepts and practice of computer programming.
It is aimed at providing you with an understanding of the fundamentals of computer programming by having them work through a range of tasks focused upon layout, structure and functionality.
This module introduces the artificial intelligence (AI) and data science fields, covering the history of the AI discipline, exploring a variety of “classical AI” and data science-related topics, and the application of Python to solve data problems.
You will gain an appreciation of the application of artificial intelligence and data science systems through the completion of hands-on activities and theoretical learning.
As part of this module, you will understand the key elements of Python programming and the appropriate use of a wide range of Python packages and libraries.
This module recognises that modern software engineers must acquire skills in software design, software implementation, software testing and the production of documentation suitable for end-users.
It also recognises that most software production within a modern facility must adhere to design and implementation standards.
The module, therefore, seeks to provide you with the opportunity to produce a complete, substantial software product that incorporates these elements.
Finally, from the practitioner's perspective, the module covers advanced software engineering topics, such as critical software, secure software, formal methods, and project management.
Database systems play a significant role in the world of Information Technology and an understanding of databases is, therefore, of fundamental importance to software engineers for the development of information systems, in general, and program persistence solutions, in particular.
The principal aim of this module is to provide essential knowledge and appreciation of the role of database systems, including basic principles and practice of design, implementation and development for both system designers and software engineers.
The module will seek to promote the notion of a database as a model of an enterprise through the development of database solutions to ‘real-world’ problems.
The Advanced Web Development module continues this level four module where you will learn how to develop functional, server-side web applications while advancing their understanding of front-end technologies.
The module will begin by teaching you advanced concepts of HTML, CSS, and JavaScript before focusing on server-side technologies, including server-side object-oriented programming (OOPHP), web server infrastructure, and web security.
Upon completion of this module, you should be able to meet the requirements for a Junior Web Developer role in industry.
The module offers a comprehensive approach to understanding and implementing security testing in the context of modern cybersecurity challenges.
It combines technical penetration testing skills with understanding human factors and system thinking, ensuring that you can assess, exploit, and defend against various cyber threats.
You will learn to evaluate systems from both a technical and socio-technical perspective, understanding the interplay between system components, human behaviour, and the environment.
Machine learning methods are central to artificial intelligence and data science, covering various techniques crucial for classification, analysis and prediction.
This module provides a comprehensive exploration of both supervised and unsupervised learning techniques, along with an introduction to the basics of deep learning.
As a rapidly evolving and highly influential discipline, machine learning is pivotal in driving innovations across various industries.
The curriculum is designed to equip you with a thorough understanding of these foundational techniques, enabling them to apply advanced machine-learning methods to solve complex practical problems.
Through this course, you will gain theoretical insights and practical skills essential for future studies and careers in data science and AI.
This module seeks to develop the student’s knowledge, understanding and programming abilities regarding data structures and algorithms, which are fundamental to building software.
It also allows you to learn and program in other programming paradigms.
The module provides the opportunity for you to apply and develop some of the knowledge and skills acquired in their degree by engaging in a significant project in a specialist area of computing, typically software or networks.
It will enable and require you to utilise practical, intellectual and decision-making skills in novel situations and develop their autonomy and self-direction.
This module aims to provide you with a comprehensive understanding of the principles and practices involved in designing and managing information systems.
By integrating theoretical knowledge with practical applications, you will learn how to develop systems that support decision-making, enhance operational efficiency, and drive innovation across various sectors.
Key areas covered include database management, systems analysis and design, data analytics, and information security.
You will explore the latest technologies and methodologies used in the field, including cloud computing, big data, and artificial intelligence.
Through hands-on projects and case studies, they will gain the skills needed to address real-world challenges and contribute to the development of robust and scalable information systems.
This module provides an opportunity to explore several areas of artificial intelligence and data science in greater depth.
This will include understanding the domain theory and intuition behind different algorithms, typical problems faced in the domain and how these might be solved.
The module is intended to provide you with an understanding of development for mobile devices with a focus on the constraints of mobile hardware, including interface and networking.
You will learn to integrate input from hardware sensors and work with networked data and services.
This module explores the interconnected world of modern computing.
For web developers, this means understanding how to build scalable web applications that leverage cloud infrastructure for high availability and performance, such as the architecture behind Netflix’s global streaming service.
Students interested in Cybersecurity will delve into securing distributed systems, ensuring data integrity, and protecting against distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks, with case studies like the defence mechanisms used by major financial institutions against fraud.
Students interested in data science and AI will learn ways to harness the power of distributed computing for large-scale data processing and machine learning, enabling advanced analytics and AI applications, as exemplified by the data processing frameworks companies like Google and Facebook use.
The module provides the foundational knowledge and practical skills to design, implement, and manage complex distributed systems in various application areas.
In the current landscape, where cyber-physical systems are integral to critical infrastructure and industrial processes, security by design has become paramount.
This module serves as the technical capstone for the degree, emphasizing the importance of secure software development, cryptography, and domain-specific threat mitigation in cyber-physical systems.
This module is the technical capstone for the degree building upon elements introduced in earlier modules, addressing cyber security in depth across multiple domains.
Cyber-attacks are becoming increasingly sophisticated, frequent, and diverse.
Hostile actors relentlessly exploit vulnerabilities, often to cause severe damage to organisations.
To defend against these threats, organisations need a multi-layered security strategy that includes robust monitoring, proactive detection, and effective incident management.
While intrusion detection and prevention systems can help mitigate threats, the reality is that some attacks will succeed.
This module equips students with the skills to respond to such incidents, manage them effectively, and undertake thorough cyber forensics investigations to collect evidence and prevent future attacks.
With the growth of the Internet and the development of commercial technologies, there has been an explosion in criminal activity targeting those technologies.
However, nefarious activity on the Internet is not only targeted at monetary gain.
Prefixed by ‘cyber’ in the popular mind are cybercrime, cyber-espionage, cyber-terrorism, cyber-bullying, etc., and the parallel term of hacktivism.
Following the ancient military maxim of ‘know your enemy’, to understand how best to protect online assets, the security professional must be conversant with the threats posed to those assets and the mindset of their assailant.
At the same time, it is a central cause of concern for any entity that wishes to establish a secure and trustworthy Internet presence to understand its principles and how to effect it.
This module covers both attack and defence elements, leading to a comprehensive understanding of cyber-security.
A sufficiency of inexpensive computing power, sufficiently large datasets and a number of key theoretical advances created deep learning techniques which have facilitated a wave of accuracy increases across many computational tasks (computer vision, natural language processing, speech recognition, autonomous driving, etc.), making many applications practical.
Deep learning is central to modern artificial intelligence.
This module explains the underlying mathematics and techniques and how to use them to achieve similar feats of computational accuracy.
Downloadable information regarding all University of Suffolk courses, including Key Facts, Course Aims, Course Structure and Assessment, is available in the Definitive Course Record.
For web developers , this means understanding how to build scalable web applications that leverage cloud infrastructure for high availability and performance, such as the architecture behind Netflix’s global streaming service.
All applicants are required to hold GCSE English and Maths at Grade C/4 or above (or Level 2 equivalents).
You can read more about our English language requirements here .
Upon graduation from this degree, students can progress into a range of roles, including:
Cyber Security Expert
Web Developer
Data Scientist
Artificial Intelligence Expert
Mobile App Developer
QA Engineer
Network Engineer
Software Developer
Data Analyst
All graduates will also have the opportunity to start their own business within the University of Suffolk Innovation Centre (IWIC).
Here, students will have access to hot desk space, networking and collaborative opportunities.
Our Careers Employability and Enterprise Team are here to support you, not only whilst you complete your studies, but after you graduate and beyond.
To find out more about our range of services and support, please visit our Careers, Employability and Enterprise page .
Ali Alhaj joined the University in July 2020 and is a Lecturer of Cyber Security and course leader of BSc (Hons) Computing.
Dr Felix Ngobigha is a Senior Lecturer in Network Engineering and had previously been Scientific Officer with the Centre for Satellite Technology Development.
At Suffolk, Mark is a Lecturer in Computing and teaches on the BSc (Hons) Computing Degree.
Prior to that he worked for a FTSE100 company in telecoms.
Steve maintains an active interest in 'serious games' including, gaming for the visually impaired and early years educational games.
Kakia is a Lecturer in Computing with expertise in machine learning, information management systems and data science.
Dr Chris Hewes-Lewington, Senior Lecturer in Cyber Security, joined us in June 2019 after a successful career in finance, telecoms, defence, and biotech
Dr Adnane Ez-zizi is a Senior Lecturer in Artificial Intelligence and Course Leader for the MSc Data Science and Artificial Intelligence.
The majority of teaching on this degree will take place on our main Ipswich Waterfront campus and on the top floor of the Atrium building, which houses four high-end computer laboratories complete with industry-standard software and tools.
Specialist modules in data science, artificial intelligence and cyber security may also take place in our state-of-the-art DigiTech Centre at Adastral Park, which was unveiled by Her Royal Highness the Princess Royal in November 2019 and launched in the summer of 2021.
The Cyber Security and Digital Forensics Laboratory at Digitech is an advanced facility equipped with high-specification machines.
It provides a controlled environment where students can simulate cyberattacks, conduct forensic investigations, and delve into activities such as malware analysis, penetration testing, and cryptographic analysis without affecting other campus networks.
In addition, the lab features top-tier Digital Forensics Equipment, which includes high-spec computers and acquisition kits complete with hardware write blockers for forensic image capture from various digital devices.
"The University has a high reputation within the fields of technology especially in relation to the degrees it offers for programming and system design."
Master cyber defence, gain industry insights, access tech resources, and even launch your business.
Your career starts here.
Master data science and AI, gain industry insights, launch AI business, and develop skills through hands-on projects and advanced modules.
Engage with experts, real-world briefs, and seminars.
Stand out with expert-led learning, real-world projects, and specialized modules.
Access tech resources, acquire new skills, and develop your portfolio.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/study/llb-law:
The law programme at the University of Suffolk was re-designed in 2020-2021 to create a law degree which is fresh, innovative, and distinctive.
The course aims to develop students into employable, career-ready graduates who have well-developed practical legal skills as well as high levels of knowledge and a love for the law.
We consulted both our existing students and employers to produce a course which meets the needs of our students and their future employers.
Fresh
Innovative
Distinctive
Further information about the university's relationship with the Solicitors Regulation Authority (SRA) and the Bar Standards Board (BSB) is available in the PSRB register .
in the UK for satisfaction with teaching
in the UK for spend on facilities
Our undergraduate programmes are delivered as 'block and blend' - more information can be found on Why Suffolk?
You can also watch our Block and Blend video.
This module introduces the essential characteristics of law and the foundational skills of lawyering.
You will first explore the theories and philosophies underpinning law and the English legal system, making comparisons historically and to other jurisdictions .
This module examines the main components of the constitutional, administrative and human rights dimensions of public law in England and Wales.
You will engage critically with the nature of the British constitution and the function of constitutional principles in balancing the relationship between the executive, the legislature and the judiciary.
This module examines the concepts and principles of criminal law in England and Wales.
It covers the general principles of criminal law and the substantive law concerning a range of offences and defences.
You will be able assess the impact of the Human Rights Act 1998 on criminal law.
This module introduces you to the wider legal profession, with a focus on ethics and justice.
You will learn about different legal careers and associated employability discussions.
This module will allow you to examine the moral and ethical dimensions of law and the practice of law in a range of contexts.
You will examine specific sets of regulation set by professional bodies namely the Bar Standards Board and the Solicitors Regulation Authority.
You will experience an extended mock trial and will spend time reflecting on law in society and access to justice.
You will examine the principles, policies and practical applications of contract law from a variety of perspectives.
You will develop a thorough understanding of how contractual obligations are formed and regulated, how legal principles and concepts are used to identify and resolve legal problems, and the function of contracts in society and the economy.
This module places considerable emphasis on the current applications of legal principles, policy and academic discourses in this branch of the law of obligations.
Very complex sets of social relationships are governed by legal concepts of duty, harm and compensation.
You would have been introduced to legal research in the first year.
This module deepens understanding of legal research for particular purposes and contexts.
You will develop insights into how legal research is conducted to address substantive, procedural and contextual legal issues and how to apply techniques from related subjects in the social sciences and humanities.
You will develop a solid understanding of the historical and theoretical foundations of English land law and of the current legal principles and concepts in use today.
The module examines the development of the legal frameworks regulating property in land, including the normalisation of the registration of titles.
You will develop a solid understanding of the principles and concepts used in the law of trusts in England and Wales, covering the main forms of trust property.
The module examines the development and current application of the fundamental maxims in equity, using both primary legal sources and academic discourses.
You will select one optional module from the list of optional modules below:
Optional modules available in any year will be communicated to you prior to your enrolment to facilitate module choice.
Some optional modules may not run in every year of study, and the availability of optional modules depends on the level of student demand, the availability of specialist staff and timetabling constraints.
In addition, we regularly review our curriculum to ensure it is up-to-date, relevant, draws on the latest research and addresses contemporary issues.
As a result, the modules we offer may change over the course of your degree.
This module consolidates the legal research skills developed over the previous two years and enables you to undertake an independent project in your final year.
You will develop your project proposal with support from a supervisor on the course team.
European Union law (EU law) governs the relations among member states of the European Union and the means by which economic, social and political integration are designed and enforced.
This module examines the laws and principles that comprise EU law and determine implementation in member states.
This module will focus on proceedings in the High Court for judicial review of the decision of public bodies.
The module will also examine the Human Rights Act 1998 and alternatives to judicial review proceedings such as internal complaints mechanism and ombudsmen.
Many of our graduates go on to have careers in legal practice.
The Solicitors’ Qualifying Examination (SQE) has made the routes to becoming a solicitor more flexible.
Although some students enrol on the Legal Practice Course, a greater number now enter employment as a paralegal upon completion of their law degree, often studying for the SQE at the same time.
Our degree programme also includes all the foundational legal subjects to complete the academic stage of training to become a barrister.
As a result of our conversations with employers, we have enhanced the employability of our graduates by providing exposure to an increased range of legal and ‘soft’ skills involving interacting with clients, advising the public, interviewing and oral presentation skills would all enhance the employability of graduates.
You will have a number of opportunities to increase your employability whilst study Law with us, including:
Find out more about our Careers, Employability and Enterprise team, who are here to support you, not only whilst you complete your studies, but after you graduate and beyond.
Dr Ruth Flaherty joined University of Suffolk in September 2019 as a Senior Lecturer in Law.
Eleanor is Senior Lecturer in Law and Director of the Legal Advice Centre.
Reilly is the Course Leader for LLB Law.
She specialises in International Human Rights with a focus on women’s rights, gender equality, and reproductive rights.
The University of Suffolk benefits from its own mock courtroom on the top floor of the iconic Waterfront Building which was installed by professional court fitters in 2020.
This provides students with the opportunity to develop their advocacy skills and apply the law learned in the classroom in a practical setting.
The mock courtroom includes a dock, witness box and a judge’s bench.
The realistic experience of the court is enhanced further by the legal gowns and lecterns purchased by Gotelee Solicitors and the university’s Foundation Board in 2019, and practitioner textbooks generously donated by the local courts.
The University of Suffolk Law course is grateful for the strong support from local legal employers that went into making this room the brilliant learning environment that all our students can experience.
The courtroom has been thoroughly embedded into university life.
It has been in regular use since its completion and hosts the annual David White Memorial Trust Mooting Competition, where students argue points of appeal to the court on a fictional legal problem.
The final has been judged by our resident judge, His Honour David Goodin, who has been highly impressed by the standard of the work presented.
Our Legal Advice Centre is housed in one of the university buildings on Star Lane.
This includes office space for staff and student volunteers together with interview rooms for seeing clients.
"In my experience, on the law course, it has been a group of academics who are deeply passionate, not just about their specific field, but about the way in which they deliver teaching and create relationships with their cohorts."
Our LLB (Hons) Law with Criminology course aims to develop students into employable, career-ready graduates who have well-developed practical legal skills as well as high levels of knowledge and a deeper understanding of national and international dimensions of crime and criminal justice.
Our innovative LLM integrates criminal law, evidence and procedure with the insights of criminology and psychology into the practices of the criminal courts.
The University of Suffolk Criminology degree tackles controversial public issues and encourages open debate.
Our BSc (Hons) Criminology and Sociology degree tackles controversial public issues and encourages open debate.
All crime has a social context so it makes sense to study criminology and sociology together.
This course enables you to study the workings of the human mind and how this is revealed in human behaviour, alongside the study of crime and criminals including individual motivations and prevention.
The MA Criminology addresses contemporary issues within the study of crime, community safety and criminal justice.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/study/bsc-psychology:
Psychology enables you to study the workings of the human mind and how this is revealed in human behaviour, both consciously and unconsciously.
As a psychology student, you will be introduced to psychological theories and will learn to critically evaluate them so that you can reach your own well-informed conclusions about the nature and origins of human and non-human behaviour.
You’ll have access to excellent facilities and equipment.
We have recently invested £320,000 in new hardware and software for our psychology laboratories and we also have a laboratory in the new £13m state-of-the-art Health and Wellbeing Building officially opened in June 2023.
On this course, you will be equipped with a thorough grounding in each of the major fields in psychology: social psychology; developmental psychology; biological psychology; and cognitive psychology.
In addition, you will explore abnormal psychology, contemporary and historic issues in psychology and individual differences.
This will be underpinned by thorough training in research methods, both qualitative and quantitative, and exploration of the scientific method.
You will be encouraged to evaluate a range of theories and research evidence, helping you to become a critical thinker whilst encouraging you to reach your own informed conclusions.
This programme is accredited by the British Psychological Society (BPS), which means that on successful completion of your degree, you are eligible for graduate based chartership (GBC) of the BPS.
This is a mandatory requirement for access to most professional practitioner training programmes.
Further information about the University's relationship with the British Psychological Society (BPS) is available in the PSRB register .
in the UK for graduates in a career 15 months after graduation for Psychology
in the UK for student satisfaction for Counselling, Psychotherapy and Occupational Therapy
in the UK for Psychology
From your second year of study, you can tailor your learning to suit your interests.
In your second year, we offer modules including Cyberpsychology, Evolutionary Psychology, Psychological Aspects of Health and Wellbeing, Psychology and Crime and Psychology in Education.
These are delivered alongside the British Psychological Society mandatory modules which are Biological and Cognitive Psychology, Social and Developmental Psychology, Qualitative Research Methods, and Quantitative Data Analysis.
In your final year of study, we offer modules including Applied Health Psychology, Cyberpsychology, Forensic Psychology, Fundamentals of Cognitive Neuroscience, Psychology in Education and Psychology of Gender and Sexuality.
These are delivered alongside the British Psychological Society mandatory modules which are Abnormal Psychology, Individual Differences, and the Psychology Project.
Foundations in Biological and Cognitive Psychology is a mandatory module for all students taking a psychology degree route.
Together with the “Foundations in Social and Developmental Psychology” module, level 4 students will attain a holistic underpinning to the major approaches in psychology.
The module will cover conceptual and historical issues of behavioural, biological and cognitive approaches to psychology.
Social Psychology is concerned with the scientific study of human social behaviour, experience and thought.
Developmental Psychology is concerned with the scientific study of systematic changes in human psychology across an individual’s lifespan, particularly cognitive, perceptual, social and emotional development in childhood, adolescence and adulthood.
This module is designed to provide students with two essential aspects of further psychological study.
Firstly, an introduction to psychological research methods; including a consideration of methodology and data analysis for both quantitative and qualitative data.
Secondly, this module will also equip students with the essential academic study skills required for their degrees.
This module will introduce issues that are relevant to the way individuals interact within and between groups in everyday life.
It will explore fundamental questions in addressing the work of philosophers, theologians and early scientists that contributed to the development of psychology.
Enabling the study of a comprehensive range of ideas and issues in understanding human behaviour from historical to current perspectives.
Introduction to Criminology aims to introduce students to the history of criminological thought, combining biographical fact with historical and cultural context.
Students will develop an understanding of how crime is defined and measured and examine theoretical perspectives that seek to explain causes of criminal behaviour.
In modern society, there are various approaches claiming to support quality of life and well-being.
This module deals with the effects of interactions among the individual, the social environment and the specialist leading to decision making in everyday living.
It aims to give students the opportunity to appreciate and describe the reasons for dealing with health and positive psychology as a significant contributor of psychological and scientific knowledge.
This module will introduce the major aspects of social change that have led to and developed within modern societies.
The emphasis will be upon structural changes in Britain and Europe, but will give room for students to explore social change in rapidly changing middle income countries as well.
Biological psychology (biopsychology) looks at psychological processes from a biological perspective, dealing with issues such as behaviour genetics, endocrinology and physiological psychology.
Cognitive psychology studies how information is processed by the brain and sense organs.
It is concerned with issues of how people perceive, understand, make decisions about and remember information.
All researchers require a basic understanding of qualitative research methodology.
This module develops the knowledge gained in the Psychological Research Methods Module, and provides students with the skills to carry out research of sufficient quality and rigour to complete their own independent studies.
This module provides students with the skills to carry out quantitative research of sufficient quality and rigour to complete their own independent studies.
Students will attain a holistic underpinning to the major research skills utilized within psychology.
This module will build on the broad introduction at Level 4 and seek to provide research-based accounts of social and developmental behaviour in key areas, such as people in groups, prejudice and discrimination, aggression, social influence, emotional and social development, life-span adult development and developmental social psychology.
The internet has arguably become an essential part of 21st century living.
It is not therefore surprising that there is growing interest in examining our online behaviour, our online presence and the impact this can have on our lives in terms of careers, friendships, relationships and wellbeing.
This module will apply psychological research and theory to provide an explanation for our online behaviour.
This module will explore evolutionary psychology and how it can be used to understand human behaviour and cognition.
The module will begin by examining evolution, specifically focused on human evolution, and the challenges of our ancestral environment.
These concepts will then be applied to a range of cognitive and social topics, such as: cooperation, morality, emotion, attraction, child rearing, and kinship.
The Psychological Aspects of Health and Wellbeing module will introduce the background to health psychology.
This module will introduce students to some of the core perspectives and models in health psychology.
This module will provide students with an understanding of how psychological theory and research contribute to our conceptualisation of health and wellbeing.
Psychology and Crime explores the ways in which psychology can be applied to criminology and examines how psychology can be applied to criminal and deviant behaviour.
The module explains a number of psychological theories of crime, in addition to the psychology of responding to crime.
This module will guide students through the psychological knowledge that underpins a variety of practitioners work in educational settings.
A key focus of the module will be how this psychological knowledge has informed and shaped educational practice in classroom settings.
The module explores challenges such as learning difficulties, social and emotional problems, issues around disability as well as more complex developmental disorders.
As such, this module introduces students to key theories and approaches in psychology of education.
Abnormal Psychology seeks to explain unusual or maladaptive behaviour through the examination of rigorous, research-based subject matter.
The concept of ‘abnormal’ can be problematic given negative connotations with ‘not normal’ and this will be a key area of debate: the essence of normality and the appropriateness of labels which may have important ramifications for how people suffering psychopathology are in some way perceived as ‘not normal’ or as inferior members of society.
This module seeks to primarily explore and touch upon individual differences in personality and intelligence.
The module also aims to introduce students to other elements of differential psychology for example creativity, cognitive styles, motivation and leadership.
Research is an important and integral part of your degree, and the Research Dissertation gives students the opportunity to expand learning and develop interests in a particular topic.
Students will critique research by others and will reflect on their own work, moving students from a theoretical knowledge of research toward a more informed level of skill and application.
Applied health psychology with its connections to positive psychology and wellness related concepts can play an important role in enhancing adaptive central behaviours, motivate towards improved practices and support lifelong changes.
Psychologists need to be in position to explore realistic and effective ways to promote health enhancing practices.
This module discusses such concepts and practices.
This module will involve discussions of the theory and practice of contemporary forensic psychology and an exploration of the role it plays in prisons, probation, policing and the courtroom.
In studying this module students will appreciate the interaction between psychology and the investigation and detection of crime, legal and trial processes and in dealing with offenders.
Psychologists conduct experiments to examine cognitive processes such as perception, attention, memory, language, intelligence, and emotion.
But how do the brain and body interact and affect these cognitive processes?
Where in the brain do these processes occur?
How are these processes represented in the human brain?
Psychologists and cognitive neuroscientists aim to understand the relationship between our brain and behaviour, and this contemporary module investigates the brain mechanisms underlying a number of cognitive processes.
This module will help students review and critically evaluate some of the most germinal research within the field of LGBTQ+ psychology.
The intersection between LGBTQ+ psychology and relevant topics such as social and developmental psychology, health, education, discrimination, and class will also be discussed.
There are many opportunities open to psychology degree holders, including and not limited to:
Although some of these roles will be available to you with a psychology undergraduate degree, many require further study at postgraduate level.
Some professional training e.g.
Professional Doctorate in Educational Psychology has a mandatory entry requirement for graduate based chartership of the British Psychological Society, which your degree, when successfully completed, would confer.
Find out more about our Careers, Employability and Enterprise Team, who are here to support you, not only whilst you complete your studies, but after you graduate and beyond.
Rachel is a Senior Lecturer in Psychology and Course Leader for the BSc (Hons) Psychology and Associated Routes Programmes.
Dr Jennifer Coe is a Lecturer in Psychology.
Manos is an internationally known expert in applying motivational constructs in Sport and Exercise Psychology.
Kate is a Lecturer in Psychology.
Abbie is an experienced educator and is Lecturer in Psychology.
Psychology Technical Learning Instructor Sarah joined the University of Suffolk in 2021.
Sharon is Academic Administrator for all undergraduate Childhood and Education courses.
Whatever you choose to study, you will learn in state-of-the-art surroundings.
We have recently invested £320k in new hardware and software for our psychology laboratories which includes new electroencephalography (EEG) and eye tracking equipment.
In our new larger laboratory, we have laptops for student use that have all the software installed that psychologists would use to investigate human behaviour.
Teaching takes place in our new laboratory and in other lecture rooms across campus.
All of our research methods seminars are supported in an IT room, encouraging students to have hands-on practical experience of research design, data collection, data analysis and report writing whilst being supported by an academic.
"I chose to study at the University of Suffolk because of its passion for student excellence, the academic support it offers and the focus on disability support."
The BSc (Hons) Psychology and Counselling enables you to study the workings of the human mind and how this is revealed in human behaviour, while also exploring the skills required to be a counsellor.
The BSc (Hons) Psychology and Sociology course enables you to study the workings of the human mind and how this is revealed in human behaviour alongside the study of how society is organised and the impact society has on our behaviour.
The BSc (Hons) Sociology looks at your world and challenges you to ask searching questions about inequality, fairness, power and violence.
Our MSc in Psychology is a conversion course for students with an undergraduate psychology degree that was not accredited by the British Psychological Society or an undergraduate degree in another discipline other than psychology.
This course provides the opportunity for students to gain further experience and knowledge in Psychology that will make them more appealing candidates for professional training programmes.
The MSc programme in Cognitive Behavioural Therapy and Counselling is an advanced professional and clinical training for students who wish to practice as psychotherapists offering cognitive behaviour therapy and psychodynamic therapy.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/study/ba-business-management:
The BA (Hons) Business Management degree course brings together degree-level education and professional practice and has been co-designed with industry experts to equip you with the practical experience and knowledge you’ll need to thrive in a complex digital landscape.
In your first year, you will study core modules to build a solid foundation in key areas of Business Management, in your second and third year, we will offer you optional modules to help you shape your degree around your interests.
For students with a particular interest in Digital Marketing, Digital Innovation and Enterprise, we offer a set of modules (pathway) that will reflect this specialism on your degree certificate.
This programme is dual accredited to a CMI L5 qualification in Management and Leadership.
Students who successfully complete all relevant mapped modules will be eligible for this professional qualification (subject to CMI moderation).
This means that by opting to study Business Management, and completing your degree you will also receive a L5 Chartered Manager qualification.
Recent studies have shown that graduates from a CMI accredited degree earn 7% more than non-accredited graduates with 72% of graduates agreeing that this gave them a competitive edge in the job market.
The Business School’s collaboration with this worldwide, industry renowned body enables us to embed essential skill building into your degree to ensure you are a work-ready graduate.
In your first year, you will study core modules to build a strong foundation in key areas of Business Management, in year two you have the option to progress to one of following:
Pathway 1: Business Management (Digital Marketing)
Pathway 2: Business Management (Digital Innovation and Enterprise )
This module delivers an introduction to organisational management, focusing on planning, organising, and leading individuals in workplace settings.
By examining key concepts and theories, the module explores how several successful organisations have adopted and implemented these ideas.
On completion of this module you will Understand the fundamental concepts of management and leadership in the dynamic world of Digital and AI capabilities.
This module encourages you to appreciate and understand the financial reporting of different forms of business and budgeting and cost management of their organizations from the perspective of a business manager in an increasingly digital environment.
On this module you will develop knowledge of current financial accounting reporting concepts and principles because financial confidence is important to any manager and Business managers need at least a working understanding of the language and reports of financial and managerial accounting.
On taking this module, you will understand key components of the external business environments and their implications for business strategy.
This module is designed to help you when preparing for managerial roles to develop a solid foundation in evaluating these external forces and their impact on various business activities.
This approach utilises real-world applications, equipping students with essential skills in navigating external business challenges in their future roles.
The module provides you with a comprehensive understanding of digital marketing principles and strategies and consider how the integration of AI can enhance marketing effectiveness.
You will explore how Digital Marketing integrates with artificial intelligence (AI) technologies to improve targeting, personalization, content creation, and customer experience across various digital channels as well as improve processes for marketers.
On completion of this module, you will consider the role of digital and AI technologies in entrepreneurial success and be able to communicate knowledge and understanding of the fundamental concepts of enterprise, entrepreneurship, digital business and artificial intelligence.
On this module you will explore the role of digital innovation including artificial intelligence in creating competitive advantage, driving business growth and fostering enterprise; and how to be entrepreneurial in the context of digital technology advancements and artificial intelligence.
On this module you will understand the significance of emotional intelligence in the recruitment process and its application in building positive and collaborative workplace relationships.
The module combines The University of Suffolk Graduate Attributes and FutureMe careers platform as part of your personal development from self-awareness and reflection to career development planning and a period of industry- based practice.
Through the development of practical work-based skills and knowledge your readiness for post-graduate employment will be enhanced, increasing their position to compete for key roles upon graduation.
The module explores the psychology of consumer decision-making, factors that influence buying behaviour and how we can effectively market to consumers based on this insight.
On this module you will apply consumer behaviour theory to understand customers buying behaviours and customer journeys.
On this module you will analyse, design, and implement effective digital transformation strategies considering ethical and sustainability impacts of proposed strategies.
This module equips you with a foundational understanding of digital innovation, transformation frameworks, and the skills to navigate, design, and implement digital strategies.
This module will explore people management issues and concepts with a focus on the practical applications which contribute to sustainable competitive advantage.
This module will equip you with the skills to utilise HR analytics and other emerging technologies to inform decision making and contribute to managing the performance of the organisation.
Successful completion of this module will equip graduates with a good grounding in the subject knowledge and understand what good practice is in people management in a range of organisational contexts.
On this module, you will learn to analyse the complexities of consultancy work within global contexts; and formulate and present effective solutions to complex business problems, with consideration of CSR, ESG, and ethical principles.
This module prepares you for consultancy roles by equipping them with the skills to navigate and address real-world challenges in diverse industries and markets
This module equips you with advanced knowledge and skills in brand building, management, and the creation of impactful communication strategies, with a strong emphasis on integrated marketing communications (IMC).
On taking this module, you will be able to design an integrated marketing communications (IMC) plan, including digital and offline channels, that aligns with brand strategy.
On completion of this module, you will be able to critically assess the opportunities and challenges associated with implementing new technologies in business models.
Covering topics such as artificial intelligence, blockchain, sustainability, and digital ethics, this module prepares students to navigate and lead in the rapidly evolving business landscape.
This module encourages you to appreciate and understand the financial management decision-making process in the digitally transforming corporate environment.
On completion of this module, you will be able to evaluate corporate financial management decisions from both quantitative and qualitative perspectives and Use AI to generate and evaluate possible solutions to real-world financial scenarios.
This module emphasises the interaction between strategic change initiatives and the people element within organizations, highlighting leadership's role in driving successful transformation.
on completion of this module, you will be able to analyse strategic change models and frameworks and apply them to real-world business scenarios.
The Final Year Enterprise or Capstone modules provides you with the opportunity to work on a project of interest to them in their final year.
Capstone Project : The Capstone project provides you with the opportunity to work on a project of interest to them.
On the Capstone module, you will design a well-defined research project supported by appropriate methodologies and critically analyse and synthesise findings to formulate meaningful conclusions or recommendations with an opportunity to present research findings effectively through written or written and presentation.
You are expected to draw upon knowledge and skills from other modules as they work on their projects.
Enterprise Project: On the Enterprise module, you will develop a business idea from germination to business plan, pitch a business idea in a professional and convincing manner, and reflect on performance in order to improve practice.
You will have the opportunity to engage with the concept of responsible entrepreneurship through socially conscious business planning and market research, and the development of sustainable enterprise ideas that contribute positively to society and the economy.
The module involves you working individually on the development of an entrepreneurial business idea and you will also be encouraged to draw upon learning from other modules at all levels in responding to the challenges presented in this part of the course.
Latest research shows that technology, automation & artificial intelligence (AI) could deliver a 22% boost to the UK economy by 2030.
By ensuring we are designing our course to focus on the future of business and innovation we are preparing you for the future of the world of work.
Despite the significant growth in AI there’s also been a growing number of roles that require direct human interaction.
Business Development Managers were the 2nd most in demand occupations in the UK in 2021, closely followed by Business Management professionals and project managers, 8th most in demand.
This degree enables you to work within a range of industries, whether major corporates, the public sector, SME’s, charities or start-ups.
Graduates have gone on to set up their own businesses through the support of our innovations labs and some have gone on to become account managers, hold senior management and leadership roles in a range of national and international organisations.
The key element of this degree and is specialised pathways is that you can becoming an expert in a specialist subject such as Marketing or Entrepreneurship but you still carry with you that crucial business acumen needed in industry.
Efe is currently a Senior Lecturer and Course Leader of Business Management in the School of Technology, Business and Arts.
Claire became Head of Business in 2022 after a career working in the commercial marketing sphere and founding a co-working and events venue in Brighton.
Jonathan is a Senior Lecturer and has also been a big part of the University wide Learning, Teaching and Assessment Committee.
Sarah joined the University of Suffolk in 2009 on the Event and Tourism Management degree programmes.
Sarah lectures in Marketing and Event Management.
Rasem Qudaih is a Lecturer in Digital Business.
With a background in managing businesses in the Swedish service and hospitality sectors.
New to September 2025, BA (Hons) Business Management students will have access to the University's new Bloomberg Lab.
The labs include 11 industry grade Bloomberg programs used in companies worldwide, and allow users to learn trading skills, portfolio management and test business and economic strategies in a real-world business environment.
The Bloomberg lab will be used for all accounting modules.
"The lecturers and tutors kept us up to date with internships and jobs that would help us with our degree."
Whether you’re interested in Entrepreneurship, Managing People Effectively and Strategic International Marketing to name a few areas this course covers then this is the course for you.
Develop leadership skills and strategic management expertise.
Flexibility for busy professionals.
Unlock your leadership and management skills and elevate your global business acumen with diverse academic concepts.
Join a top CIPD accredited program, offering high-quality teaching and flexible study options.
Develop HR expertise and build a global network.
Become a career-ready graduate.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/research-and-knowledge-exchange/research-institutes/digital-futures-institute:
The Digital Futures Institute is a leading regional hub for technology focused research, knowledge exchange, consultancy and training.
The Institute has its principal base at the DigiTech Centre on Adastral Park, and collaborates closely with partners such as BT plc and Innovation Martlesham companies.
To develop and apply computer science and engineering in creative, sustainable and responsible ways for the betterment of society, the economy and individual citizens.
The Digital Futures Institute undertakes research and knowledge exchange across a broad range of computer science and cognate engineering areas.
The Institute collaborates with academic partners in the UK and internationally on activities of mutual interest.
The Institute supports and works with multinational companies, small-to-medium-sized enterprises and third sector organisations on technical consultancy, funded innovation projects and Knowledge Transfer Partnerships.
The Digital Futures Institute has four broad themes of research:
Although the Institute’s expertise can be categorised into themes, projects can and do straddle multiple themes and connect outwith to other Institutes and elsewhere in the University.
If you would like to join our mailing list then please complete this online form .
If you would like to get in touch with us to discuss research, training or opportunities to collaborate together, please contact us via email .
Jo is a Research Institute Administrator for the Suffolk Sustainability Institute and the Digital Futures Institute based at Digitech Centre
Salman Ahmed is a Research Fellow at the DigiTech Centre, Digital Futures Institute.
Dr.
Adam Clayden received his PhD from the University of Edinburgh (2019).
He currently leads BSc (Hons) Games Development at University of Suffolk.
Hisham is a lecturer in Computing and AI.
Work at previous universities in Monash, Bristol and Imperial College, UK, have included developing algorithms.
Muhammad Waqar is a Lecturer in Computing at the School of Business, Arts, Social Sciences and Technology.
Syed joined the University of Suffolk in August 2022 and is a Lecturer in Computing.
He has a phD in Computer Science from Bangor University.
Godwin is a Lecturer in Computing in the School of Business, Arts, Social Sciences and Technology.
Computing lecturer Shahroz specialises in deep learning methods for violence detection, image stegnography, image deblurring and super-resolution among others.
Upcoming events within the Digital Futures Institute.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/research-and-knowledge-exchange/research-institutes/institute-of-health-and-wellbeing:
The Institute of Health and Wellbeing Research benefits from strong partnerships with other organisations across academia, healthcare, business and public society.
Our research and evaluation services respond to key health and wellbeing challenges, and lead to innovation across many disciplines of human performance.
Our aim is to make a meaningful contribution to the local, national, and where possible international community.
We also aim to provide a supportive environment for our postgraduate research students, and we particularly welcome applications for PhD study within our areas of expertise.
The vision of the Institute is to enhance wellbeing, reduce ill-health and enable a high quality of life to be experienced by all.
The Institute’s mission is to provide a supportive, multi-disciplinary environment to bring together diverse partnerships to deliver applied research, knowledge exchange and innovation in health and wellbeing across the human lifespan.
The Institute has three main research themes.
Find out more about our research themes, projects and publications
Abigail is a clinical research fellow at the Institute of Health and Wellbeing at the University of Suffolk.
Rob is a Research Fellow within the Institute of Health & Wellbeing at the University of Suffolk.
Patience is an Associate Professor in Midwifery with the Institute of Health & Wellbeing at the University of Suffolk.
Emily is a Research Assistant in the Institute of Health and Wellbeing/Integrated Care Academy.
Health Living
Long Term Conditions
Biosciences for Human Health
Dr Paul Freeman, University of Essex
Dr Jo Barton, University of Essex
Dr Jamie Pethick, University of Essex
Dr Oonagh Corrigan , Anglian Ruskin University
Also:
Active Essex
Essex County Council
Suffolk Mind
Proposed PhD Title: Evaluating System Dynamics in Place-Based Physical Activity Interventions: An Embedded PhD within Active Suffolk Using the ENCOMPASS Framework
Institution: University of Suffolk (in partnership with University of Essex) Location: Suffolk, UK Funding: Fully funded (UK/home fees and stipend) Duration: Full-time, 3 years Application Deadline: 15th August 2025 Start Date: 1st October 2025
Are you passionate about real-world public health research and making a difference to communities through systems change or thinking in a different way?
We are offering a fully-funded PhD opportunity (UK/home fees with stipend) embedded within Active Suffolk , part of Sport England’s £250 million national place-based partnerships .
This exciting project aims to evaluate and enhance physical activity systems communities of focus (Ipswich and Lakenheath) using the innovative ENCOMPASS framework—an adaptive, non-linear approach to evaluating complex systems change.
Suffolk is a rural English county of 760,000 people, who live in tightly packed towns, small villages, and coastal hubs.
The population lives in relative deprivation, with a lack of investment and infrastructure required to keep people healthy.
In Suffolk, more than one-third of the population do not do enough physical activity.
Not moving enough can damage our health and wellbeing.
Working in partnership with the county-wide organisation promoting physical activity (Active Suffolk), we have developed a group consisting of Suffolk’s government and public bodies, charities, deliverers and provisions, and lived experience organisations.
Working with these organisations, we mapped the factors that affect physical activity participation, and used this to find places (i.e., leverage points) to modify which would have the biggest effect in helping people do more physical activity.
We are now interested in understanding how this approach can be applied and evaluated within a place-based approach.
As a PhD student, you will be at the heart of this place-based initiative, working closely with community partners, policymakers, and leading academics from the University of Suffolk and University of Essex.
Your research will bridge academia and practice, influencing how local systems create sustainable change in physical activity and wellbeing.
We are seeking a highly motivated individual with:
Please submit:
Apply via: ihwb@uos.ac.uk
Enquiries: Prof Valerie Gladwell – v.gladwell@uos.ac.uk
If you would like more information on our research or to explore collaborative opportunities, please do get in touch with the Institute Director, Prof Valerie Gladwell on research@uos.ac.uk.
Upcoming events and latest news from within the Institute of Health and Wellbeing.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/research-and-knowledge-exchange/research-institutes/institute-for-social-justice-and-crime:
The Institute for Social Justice and Crime is an intellectual and operational vehicle at the University of Suffolk for conducting applied research in social science, humanities and its cognate fields.
The Institute for Social Justice and Crime takes an ambitious and collaborative approach, engaging in transformational research to tackle complex issues through an intersectional lens, expanding academic, policy and practice knowledge.
The Institute’s research will further develop knowledge of multi-agency practices to improve their service to the community, increase public safety and to facilitate social justice.
Interdisciplinary, mixed and creative methodologies are key to the Institute’s approach to research.
The Institute for Social Justice and Crime provides a nurturing research culture where all researchers are valued and mentored to ensure they achieve their potential, whilst prioritising everyone’s health and wellbeing.
The Institute for Social Justice and Crime is committed to addressing the social issues which act as barriers to an equitable and inclusivesociety with an emphasis on the experiences of vulnerable and marginalised groups.
Fundamentally, the Institute seeks to make the world amore equal and just place in line with, and going beyond, the UN Sustainable Development Goals.
The Institute for Social Justice and Crime has several areas of core expertise: domestic abuse, online harms, sexual violence, policing, theorising (social justice), complex systems change, gangs and criminal exploitation.
We also have emerging areas of expertise in wellbeing, digital justice and activism, digital and food poverty, access to justice, gender and sexuality, racial justice, epistemic injustice, children, young people, childhoods and education as an axis of inequality, veterans, socially-just and future-making practices, locally and globally and trauma informed practice.
We are interested in all research that reflects our principles of equity, intersectionality, inclusivity, wellbeing, and transformational change.
The key principles that guide how we work are set out below, this is a non-exhaustive list and will evolve as the institute develops.
We take a collaborative, strengths based and trauma informed approach to all our endeavours.
For us this means starting from the recognition that everyone involved in, or who has a stake in, our projects, including researchers, funders/commissioners, collaborators, research participants and community members, has their own unique perspective, experiences, capacities, and vulnerabilities that should be respected.
To foster equal participation and partnerships, we will:
Dr Katherine Allen is a Research Fellow in the Institute for Social Justice and Crime at the University of Suffolk.
Dr Linda Cooper is an Associate Professor and the Deputy Director of the Institute for Social Justice and Crime (ISJC).
Joey is a Research Projects Officer in the Institute for Social Justice and Crime at the University of Suffolk.
Dr Laura Stevens is a Research Fellow
Survivors in Transition
Marie Collins Foundation
CrimeStoppers
LimeCulture
Hope Training & Consultancy
Drive Charity
Sistah Space
Youth Justice Institute
The Institute supports the university micro-placement scheme - June 2025
Dr Linda Cooper, Deputy Director – Institute for Social Justice and Crime (ISJC)
The Institute for Social Justice and Crime were keen to work with the Careers and Employability and Enterprise Team, to host an undergraduate student for their micro-placement scheme.
The remit was to give a student a paid opportunity to experience life in a research institute and a flavour of the varied aspects of our work and roles.
We were delighted to host Paige Marrett, a final year UoS student, between February and May 2025.
Paige was an excellent representative for this programme, showing initiative and a real commitment to understand all aspects of the ISJC work and wider research interests.
Paige met with colleagues across the Research Directorate and Knowledge Exchange team.
Additionally, she was introduced to an overview of our work and observed appropriate meetings.
We asked Paige to share with us her thoughts on her time in the ISJC.
During her self-directed time, Paige prepared a poster to help support her thinking for her final year submissions, which can be used for her future applications for study or research related work.
Paige describes her experiences below:
Coming to the end of a BSc (Hons) in Psychology, I was considering a career change to build on my previous work in the charity sector.
Through the micro-placement, I had a window to observe a skilled research team in action, as well as meeting many people from other university departments and local organizations.
The ISJC team were incredibly generous with their time and expertise, which was invaluable for my final year research project dissertation, and their current research inspired me to create a proposed wellbeing intervention for Suffolk police officers.
Dr Linda Cooper was instrumental in helping me understand the current state of police officer wellbeing in the UK, based on her research, and advising me on the concept of an intervention to support our serving officers.
I have been inspired by the meaningful work of the ISJC and am grateful for their investment in me.
My time on the micro-placement has contributed to my decision to pursue a master's degree and a future career in research.
I hope to use my previous experiences and skills acquired in academia to contribute to impactful research for the benefit of local communities.
As part of the micro-placement, I devised a proposed wellbeing intervention for Suffolk police officers, inspired by one of the ISJC’s research projects.
The proposed project imagines a 6-week holistic wellbeing programme for Suffolk officers with less than 5 years’ service.
The programme is evidence-based and aims to meet the demand for upstream wellbeing intervention in order to retain officers, in response to a growing need for promotion of physical and emotional wellbeing.
The programme even includes a free weekly breakfast, and 3-month healthy food subscription to any officer who may complete the programme!
Upcoming events and the latest news within the Institute for Social Justice and Crime.
If you would like more information on our research or to explore collaborative opportunities, please do get in touch with the Institute Director, Prof Miranda Horvath on research@uos.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/study/ba-esports:
New for 2025, our BA (Hons) Esports degree provides you with an immersive journey into the fascinating realm of competitive gaming, focusing on the art and science behind esports success.
Through a combination of theoretical knowledge, hands-on experiences, and practical skills, you will explore the history, development and future of the growing esports industry, while gaining practical skills in event management, content creation, marketing, and digital broadcasting and livestreaming.
The course begins by exploring the esports industry, tracing its evolution from niche communities to the global phenomenon, and multi-million-pound industry it is today.
You will learn about the complex ecosystem of stakeholders that surround the industry such as professional teams, leagues, organisations, event organisers, and sponsors.
This dynamic and exciting degree will give you valuable insights into the business side of esports by exploring topics such as team management, sponsorship deals, marketing strategies, and audience engagement.
You will also acquire hands-on experience with digital broadcasting workflows, content creation techniques, and online engagement strategies to grow and develop your brand.
During your time on the course, you will learn how to run an esports event from start to finish and have opportunities to apply your learning to a range of unique challenges and projects.
You'll be taught in our brand-new Esports facilities, a £1.65 million renovation project on our Ipswich campus which will include more than 40 gaming-spec PCs, professional-grade broadcast gallery and a live studio purpose-built for broadcasting and live-streaming.
Find out more in the video below:
If you'd like to know more about this course, including updates on our new facilities, taster sessions and interactive webinars please register your interest below.
Students will have the opportunity to compete in national tournaments in a range of games with our Esports Team, the Suffolk Mariners.
Management and operation of the brand will be the responsibility of students on the course.
This gives them hands-on experience in how to run a brand, market and manage events, and get practice on running complex and professional livestreams.
This module lays much of the foundation for the rest of the course.
You will study the rise of competitive gaming, from pinball and arcade tournaments to modern league and tournament structures.
You will also cover the ethics of esports and some of the issues that have arisen such as gambling and fraud.
Digital Media plays an important role in modern creative industries like esports and broadcasting, you will develop creative artefacts including edited videos and graphics and explore their applications in esports and beyond.
This module introduces the core principles of digital marketing and e-commerce to prepare you for the challenges of launching a business or driving growth in an existing one.
With esports streamed live on the global stage, this module exposes you to the tools and platforms used by streamers and casters, allowing you to develop the skills necessary to set up and run a stream of your own.
Additionally, you will get hands-on experience with a professional digital broadcasting suite and production workflows in esports.
This module explores the current business and financial challenges within the esports industry.
From predatory player contracts to content monetisation and fundraising, you will learn how to run an esports business and what opportunities are available for growth.
In this module, you will start with the fundamental components of what makes a successful esports event before combining those elements and learning how to lead and manage large-scale, global esports tournaments and the many challenges involved.
Building off the skills and understanding developed in your Introduction to Streaming and Online Broadcasts module, you will deepen your understanding of digital broadcasting workflows and practice.
You will utilise the full professional broadcast suite for esports broadcasts and how to construct narratives within the spectators’ experience.
Balancing the many demands of an Esports team leader can be challenging.
In this module, you'll experience what it means to be an effective team leader capable of managing a dynamic and successful esports team.
In this module, you will have the opportunity to undertake a significant piece of research on a topic of your choosing, deepen your understanding, and present cutting-edge knowledge for industry and/or academic audiences.
In this module, you'll plan, produce and run a significant esports event.
This module is your opportunity to bring together everything you have learned throughout your degree and presents the most significant assessment on the course.
Throughout this module you will develop an advanced understanding of building and managing brands, designing communication strategies, and implementing integrated marketing communications.
Applicants who do not hold these qualifications may be considered on an individual basis based on their overall application, work experience and course applied for.
Students that complete this BA (Hons) Esports degree have the potential to progress into a successful career as a:
Charlie is a lecturer in esports and the course leader for BA (Hons) Esports.
Heather has pursued a career in Academia to support her research in game design having graduated from the University of Suffolk in 2018.
The University’s main campus is located on the stunning Ipswich Waterfront.
Whatever you choose to study, you will learn in modern surroundings.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-study/applying-for-a-course/entry-requirements-explained:
When we make you an offer of a place to study here, it may be subject to you meeting certain conditions, these are grouped into two different areas; Academic and Non-Academic.
Academic Entry Requirements Students applying for undergraduate degrees and foundation degrees need to meet the specific entry requirements detailed on course pages.
These are usually expressed as UCAS Tariff points, some courses will also have specific GCSE requirements.
Where possible, we make offers based on the UCAS tariff system.
To calculate your points please use the UCAS Tariff Calculator.
Whilst our entry requirements are expressed using the UCAS Tariff we recognise that not all qualifications attract UCAS points (i.e.
Access course), if your qualifications are not included in the tariff we may still accept them.
Check our list of Acceptable Qualifications or call Admissions on 01473 338348 to discuss your individual circumstances further.
Applicants age 21 may also wish to see additional information about applying as a mature student.
If you have qualifications from overseas please check our country specific entry requirements for more information on the qualifications we will consider from your home country.
If English is not your first language you may also be required to complete an English Language qualification, check our English Language requirements for more information.
In order to ensure that applicants applying for Honours and Foundation degrees have sufficient depth of knowledge and understanding, at least two subjects to A Level standard or equivalent are usually required as well as two-years of experience of post-16 study.
Applicants are also expected to hold three GCSEs grade C/4 or above.
Please note that many courses require a grade C/4 or above in English and Maths.
Non-Academic Entry Requirements Some courses will have non-academic requirements which you will usually need to meet before the start of your course.
All places on professional health courses e.g.
Nursing, Midwifery, Paramedic Science etc, are subject to successful attendance at a Selection Day, satisfactory occupational health check, and a satisfactory enhanced Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) check .
You must also submit a signed Annual Declaration of Good Health and Character each year to confirm that no convictions or cautions have been made since we first verified your DBS certificate.
Further details are on the form.
Information about these non-academic conditions will be detailed in your offer and also sent to you via email before the course starts.
For a full list of courses which require a DBS check and full details of these requirements, please see our DBS page .
Individual applicants may be requested to attend an interview upon request of the Admissions Tutor.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-study/applying-for-a-course/mature-students:
At the University of Suffolk mature students are a large proportion of the total student population, so you won’t be alone.
Mature students play a huge part in the UK's Higher Education sector making up to a third of all full-time undergraduates.
Mature students may decide to return to study for a number of reasons, including career or personal development, to pursue an interest or for a change of direction, and many choose to study part-time alongside other commitments.
Approaching higher education as a mature student can be both exciting and daunting so we have put a range of support measures in place to help and guide you.
What support is available to me if I haven't studied for a while?
Will I be able to get help writing assignments?
Is childcare available?
The Student Life team can offer advice about childcare opportunities and the benefits and funding that may be available to students who have dependents.
Alternatively, a list of childcare providers can be found on the Suffolk County Council website .
What financial support is available?
Students studying for an undergraduate degree in the UK do not have to pay their tuition fees in advance.
Providing you do not already have a degree and you are eligible, students can apply for a Tuition Fee Loan.
The fees are covered by a loan supplied by the government and paid direct to the institution for you.
For more information, visit our fees and funding section .
If you haven't studied for a while, you may wish to consider other studies to build your knowledge and confidence before you start a degree.
These studies might include an Access to Higher Education Diploma, an A-Level, or your local Further Education college may have other interesting alternatives.
Many colleges and other education providers offer Level 2 qualifications in Maths and English; another great way to brush up on your key skills.
Admissions tutors will be looking for applicants who demonstrate they have the potential to successfully study at Higher Education level, so some experience of academic writing, researching topics and giving presentations would be beneficial.
If you are considering applying for a more competitive or professional health course, Admissions Tutors will look upon recent study (normally within the last five years) more favourably.
Recent study demonstrates your skills are current.
Reading around the subject you wish to study or undertaking work experience in a related area can also strengthen your application.
Remember to note the transferable skills this work experience can give you in your personal statement when making your application.
If you are considering studying a nursing programme, or another professional health care course, you will need to meet the specific entry requirements for that course before you can be considered.
The course pages will give you more information, or you can contact the Student Centre for advice.
Most students are able to work alongside their course.
How much you can work will depend on the type of course you're studying, your mode of attendance (if you are studying full-time or part-time) and the type of work you plan to undertake.
Most students taking undergraduate modular degree programmes can expect to be at university two or three days a week.
However, some students may need to spend more time on campus to use specialist facilities for independent project work, such as laboratory space and arts studios.
For most courses it is recommended you undertake 200 hours of study for each 20 credit module taken, including class time.
Your tutor will give you more guidance at the start of your course.
Our online career development platform FutureMe features an online jobs board which advertises part-time vacancies suitable for students, so students may wish to consider signing up for their regular updates.
If you are considering studying a nursing programme, or another professional health care course, it is recommended that you do not undertake additional work, or that this is kept to a minimum.
If you have applied to study one of the following professional courses, you will be required to meet the standard minimum entry requirements detailed on the course page.
For more information on studying at the University of Suffolk, prospective students are welcome to visit the Student Centre in the Waterfront Building in Ipswich.
The Student Centre is your one-stop-shop, giving information and advice on aspects of student life.
You can find our contact details through the Get in Touch page.
Alternatively, why not visit us at one of our Open Days ?
If you are 21 years or over when you start a course, you will be regarded as a mature student.
The University also asks that you can demonstrate the ability to undertake the appropriate level of study and have the necessary study skills.
Where there are specific course requirements, you will be asked to demonstrate an equivalent knowledge of the subject, and if you have not had any formal education for several years, you may need to undertake some sort of preparatory course, for example an Access to HE Diploma course.
All mature students who do not come from a traditional educational background, or who have been away from education for some time but believe they have relevant experience at an appropriate level, are strongly encouraged to attend an Open Day or seek advice from the University of Suffolk Student Centre prior to making an application.
If you do not meet the minimum entry requirements as a mature student, you may be invited to attend an informal interview to determine your suitability.
Please note that if you are applying as a mature students applying for a professional course, you will still be required to meet the minimum entry requirements as detailed on the course page, please see the accordion above titled Professional Course Entry Requirements for a list of applicable courses.
All applicants to post-experience health studies courses are expected to have appropriate professional experience.
"The day of my graduation ceremony is a day I will never forget.
Words cannot describe how I felt when I thought of how far I’d come"

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-study/applying-for-a-course/acceptable-qualifications:
We welcome applicants studying a wide range of qualifications including:
Individual course requirements do vary and some may specify particular subjects or grades.
For further information about how your qualifications equate to particular course requirements, contact the Student Centre, their details can be found on the Get in Touch page.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-study/applying-for-a-course/access-to-he-diploma-requirements:
All University of Suffolk courses require applicants to pass the 60 credits and achieve the HE Diploma.
Some Ipswich-based courses also require applicants undertaking an Access to HE Diploma to meet specific grade requirements and to obtain GCSE Maths and English or equivalent.
The information below is a guide but you should also check the course page carefully.
A minimum of 30 Level 3 credits at merit grade or above will be required for the following courses:
A minimum of 45 Level 3 credits at merit grade or above will be required for:
Where GCSE Maths and English at Grade C/4 or their equivalents are required (i.e.
for professional health courses), we can only accept level 2 Numeracy and Literacy if they are specified within the transcript under these exact titles.
This means that we cannot accept Communication Skills in place of Literacy.
If these qualifications are not specified within your transcript then you will be expected to undertake them alongside your Access course in order to meet the academic requirements.
If you have any questions about our requirements please contact the Student Centre .

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-study/applying-for-a-course/disclosure-and-barring-service-checks-dbs:
The following DBS information is for students on the Ipswich campus of the University of Suffolk.
An appropriate DBS check must be in place for any practical elements of your course involving contact with children and/or vulnerable adults.
You can use the Government’s eligibility tool to check which level of check is required or please contact us for further information.
Please refer to the FAQs for DBS requirements after a break in study.
For some courses, it is a course requirement for students to have a particular DBS in place, ready for the mandatory modules where students will be in regulated activity with children and/or vulnerable adults:
Course Name
Level of DBS Check
Barred List(s)
Online Update Service required?
Adult Nursing BSc (Hons)
Enhanced
Adult & Child
No
Adult Nursing [pre-reg] MSc
Childhood - Primary Education with QTS BA (Hons)
Child only
Yes – for course duration
Children’s Nursing – BSc (Hons)
Cognitive Behaviour Therapy and Counselling MSc
Adult only
Dental Hygiene and Dental Therapy BSc (Hons)
Diagnostic Radiography BSc (Hons)
Diagnostic Radiography (Pre-Reg) MSc
Mental Health Nursing BSc (Hons)
Midwifery BSc (Hons)
Paramedic Science BSc (Hons)
Physiotherapy BSc (Hons)
Radiotherapy and Oncology BSc (Hons)
Social Work BA (Hons)
For the above courses, all students must complete a new DBS check at the start of the course and will be sent a link to login and complete their new DBS application.
Find out more about DBS costs
An existing DBS check can only be accepted if it meets the course requirements (as listed above) and is currently registered on the Online Update Service, so a live check can be completed.
If the existing DBS certificate does not meet the course requirements and/or is not registered on the Online Update Service, a new DBS check is required.
Please see the Online Update Service section below for more information.
If you have lived outside of the UK for a year or more, you must also provide an overseas criminal record check; please see further details on the ‘Overseas checks’ tab below.
Employers must complete a DBS agreement (provided by the University of Suffolk) confirming an appropriate DBS check is in place and that safer recruitment checks have been completed.
The DBS check must be no older than 3 years by the time the course is completed.
This applies to the following courses:
Usually, a new DBS check is completed for the placement.
A new DBS check can be completed through the University if required.
The cost is usually covered by the student.
The Government eligibility questionnaire will need to be completed to ensure the correct level of check is carried out.
Any questions on the DBS process for students (Ipswich campus) should be sent to DBS@uos.ac.uk.
All students completing a new enhanced DBS check will be required to pay the following fees:
Identity check: £12.00 – Paid directly to the Post Office
Enhanced DBS check: £54.30 – Paid as part of the application
Online Update Service (where applicable): £16.00 – paid to the DBS Government Office upon sign up.
Please note that this is an annual fee that enables the University and placement partners to complete a live check on your DBS status.
NB:  the cost of DBS applications (including ID verification checks) cannot be refunded; therefore, you will need to ensure that details of your application are accurate.
Please contact us if you have any questions relating to your application.
Your DBS application will be automatically withdrawn if it has not been completed and sent to the Government within 60 days.
If you do not complete your DBS application in a timely manner, this may mean you need to pay for another DBS check to meet your course requirements, as any payments made are non-transferable.
The Online Update Service is run by the Government; please refer to their guidance on whether you might be entitled to a refund on their website .
If you have lived abroad for more than a year you will need to provide an overseas criminal record check (this may be required from multiple countries if applicable).
We recommend you get your overseas check before coming to the UK, where possible.
Your overseas check must be translated into English by a certified translator.
Where a hard copy is produced, you must provide the original document.
Access a list of countries and how to apply for your overseas criminal record check.
All DBS certificates are considered fairly, and just because you have a criminal record, this does not automatically mean you will not be allowed into practice/onto the course.
We expect you to be open, honest, and transparent about anything in relation to your criminal record and/or good character which could affect your ability to attend practice as you apply for the course, or if anything occurs whilst you are on it.
You should declare your convictions when asked for these by our Admissions team.
This will then be considered by a Criminal Convictions Panel to assess whether you will be able to attend practice/continue with the course.
Your DBS certificate must also be reviewed (we will need to see the original to review what has been declared on there).
If something occurs during your study, you must inform the University immediately by contacting safeguarding@uos.ac.uk as well as your course leader.
You will be asked to complete the declaration form to explain what happened, which will be considered by the University’s Criminal Conviction Panel.
You may also need to complete a new DBS check.
To check your DBS certificate on the Online Update Service, it must meet your course requirements as defined above.
Then, we must verify your original DBS certificate (the physical certificate, not a copy) and you must complete an online consent form to allow us to check this.
Please contact us if you have a DBS certificate you need us to check.
The Online Update Service allows a live check on your DBS status.
Further details can be found on the Government website.
The Online Update Service enables a live check of the status of an existing DBS certificate.
There is a legal obligation that the University only complete checks to the level required for the course.
Any existing certificates registered with the Online Update Service that fall below or above the course requirements (including Barred Lists) cannot be used for your study.
Therefore, a new check will be required, if you are unsure about your existing certificate please contact the University DBS Team.
I have accepted my course offer.
When will I be contacted to complete my DBS?
Once the conditions of your offer have been met and the offer has been accepted, the University’s DBS Team will contact you no earlier than 3 months prior to your course start date to begin the DBS process.
If you have started a course which requires a DBS check (please see the section above for a list of courses) and have not heard from us, please raise a ticket via Minerva (our communication system, which you can access once you are a University of Suffolk student).
Can I start my placement once I receive my DBS certificate?
The University of Suffolk DBS Team will confirm when you have completed the DBS process.
You must, however, wait to hear from the Placement Team and/or your Course Leader before entering placement.
This is because there may be other things besides your DBS check which need to be in place first.
I have spent time travelling/living abroad.
Do I need to provide anything extra besides my UK DBS check?
If you have lived abroad for more than a year you will need to provide an overseas criminal check (this may be required from multiple countries if applicable).
Please see ‘Overseas checks’ above for further information.
I have lost my DBS certificate; can I get a copy?
The University of Suffolk does not keep copies of your DBS certificate and the Government does not usually issue a re-print.
The University of Suffolk may, however, be able to provide you with the main details of your DBS certificate.
All requests for these must be made from your student email address to: DBS@uos.ac.uk
DBS requirements after a break in study
Where a DBS check is a requirement for the course, a new check will need to be completed if the break in study has been for a year or more.
The new check should be in place prior to returning to the course.
You will not be permitted to return to or start a placement until the University DBS Team has verified your DBS status.
Students will be responsible for paying for all associated costs for a new DBS check; you can find details of costs in the section above.
If your existing DBS is registered with the Online Update Service and continues to meet the course requirements, we will request permission to check the live status of your DBS check and will confirm once the process has been completed.
If the Online Update Service has been allowed to lapse, then a new DBS check will be required.
If you are on a work-based learning course and have had a break from study for a year or more, your placement setting will need to complete a new DBS agreement ready for your course return.
Name changes
If you have changed your name, you may need to complete a new DBS check in your new name, particularly if your DBS certificate is registered on the Online Update Service.
Please contact us on DBS@uos.ac.uk to check.
Do you do DBS checks for staff and student ambassadors?
No – POD (our People and Organisational Department) manages DBS checks for all staff.
The Student Ambassador team manages all DBS checks for student ambassadors.
Annual Declarations:
To confirm ongoing suitability for your study, some courses will require an annual declaration of good health and good character to be completed.
These declarations will take place at the enrolment stage of each academic year, however as per any course requirements it remains the responsibility of the learners to inform the University of any changes.
Throughout the period of study, (including any periods where a break in study is taken), students and apprentices must declare any changes in their health and character to the course lead and the safeguarding team.
Do I need to declare any changes to my criminal convictions status while studying?
If you need to declare something which could impact your ability to practice (or study), please contact the Safeguarding Team immediately: safeguarding@uos.ac.uk
I have an existing DBS certificate – can I use this for my course?
(including volunteer certificates)
There are many factors to be considered when using an existing DBS certificate for your course.
These include:
For any queries relating to existing DBS certificates, you should contact the University DBS Team (new applicants please email: dbs@uos.ac.uk .
Current students should use Minerva.
For student DBS queries, please raise a ticket via Minerva.
For all external enquiries (including if you are still in the process of being accepted onto a course), please contact: DBS@uos.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-study/applying-for-a-course/financial-support-for-visiting-the-university:
The University encourages all prospective students to visit our campus to see our facilities and academic teaching, however we recognise that the financial cost of visiting universities can be a concern.
We would therefore like to offer support with the travel costs of up to £50 , associated with visiting the University of Suffolk, for those who travel a significant distance (a round trip of at least 150 miles) OR meet widening participation criteria (as defined below):
We will normally consider students attending an Open Day, Interview/Portfolio Review, or an Applicant Visit.
Students must pay for travel costs upfront and then submit a travel expenses form with proof of costs (e.g.
relevant receipts/booking confirmations.
Mileage will be paid at the rate of 45p per mile.
Either a mileage claim, or receipts from an alternative mode of transport is accepted, of up to £50 against travel costs.
If you feel you are eligible, please complete both forms below and send any receipts to financialsupport_travelclaims@uos.ac.uk
Financial support for visiting the University of Suffolk
Travel expenses claim form
Any expenses forms must be submitted within 28 days of the visit .
Please note, the University of Suffolk has a dedicated fund to support claims, however once this finite fund is fully allocated, no further assistance can be provided.
Payments will normally be made directly to the applicant's bank account within four weeks of submission.
If you have any further questions, feel free to email us on financialsupport_travelclaims@uos.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-study/applying-for-a-course/your-offer-to-study---entry-for-202526:
By making you an offer, we know that you are right for us.
We realise that going to university is one of the biggest decisions you will ever make so we want you to be sure that being part of the University of Suffolk community is right for you.
Your offer will set out the academic and non-academic conditions you are required to meet, on UCAS and/or in your offer email so you know exactly what you need to do to be able to enrol on your chosen course.
Make sure you read these carefully and contact us if you have any questions.
Whatever offer you receive, it is important that you are fully prepared for studying at higher education level.
Pushing yourself to achieve the best you can will help you at university and beyond:
Achieving in your Level 3 qualifications (A Level, BTEC, Access etc) will ensure you have excellent transferable skills required to be successful at university, these include but aren’t limited to time management, essay writing techniques, prioritisation and research skills.
If you’re studying a subject that you wish to take forward at higher education level, your level 3 qualifications will form the basis of the basic subject knowledge required.
When you complete your degree, future employers will likely ask for the grades achieved at GCSE and A Level standard and consider these as part of their selection processes.
The University of Suffolk makes a range of offers to applicants depending on their individual circumstances and academic profile,  recognising that some individuals may face barriers in accessing higher education.
We subscribe to the UCAS contextual data service and the UCAS Modernised contextualised data service in order to access additional information in order to identify whether the following may have an impact on an individual’s ability to progress to higher education:
Index of Multiple Deprivation (IMD) – the official measure of relative deprivation for small areas (or neighbourhoods) in England
Participation of Local Areas (POLAR) – The measure of entry to higher education by age 19 in small geographical areas across the UK
We believe that the offer we make to you should reflect our belief in your ability to be successful in higher education.
The University of Suffolk works in partnership with Schools and Colleges to encourage progression to higher education.
This includes signing formal Progression Agreements with Schools and Colleges to make lower conditional offers to students within those schools.
Depending on your application (including the course you have applied for), and individual circumstances we will therefore make you one of three types of offers:
If you are currently studying towards qualifications that could meet our academic entry requirements, and you do not already meet the academic entry requirements we will make you a conditional offer.
A conditional offer asks that you achieve a minimum number of tariff points, or a minimum grade in your qualification(s).
If you receive your results and find that you have not quite met the conditions of your offer do not worry – we will review your application on an individual basis and may still be able to accept you based on the grades achieved, and the course that you are applying for.
Your offer may also include non-academic conditions such as references, placement hours, and occupational health or DBS requirements.
Receiving a conditional offer demonstrates that we believe you have the potential to be successful at the University of Suffolk.
If you fall within the below measures for IMD and/or POLAR have applied for an undergraduate Bachelors degree (i.e.
a 3 year programme) and are currently studying towards qualifications that could meet our academic entry requirements, and/or you do not already meet the academic entry requirements we will make you a contextual conditional offer:
Contextual conditional offers will also be made to applicants who declare the following:
The contextual conditional offer will require achievement of tariff points normally equating to at least one grade lower than published entry requirements.
A conditional offer asks that you achieve a minimum number of Tariff points, or a minimum grade in your qualification(s).
By making a contextual conditional offer we acknowledge that there may be factors outside your control which have an impact on your progression to higher education, this offer demonstrates that we believe you have the potential to be successful at the University of Suffolk.
If you have already completed your qualifications, and meet our academic entry requirements and/or apply as a mature applicant and demonstrate other skills and experience that may demonstrate your suitability for higher education or apply for a course that includes a portfolio review as part of the decision making process we may be able to make you an unconditional offer.
This will be based on the information provided in your application, and you will therefore need to provide evidence of the qualifications you have listed to confirm these.
Due to the competitive nature of professional health courses and limited contract places here at the University of Suffolk we use reserve lists for some courses.
When you attend a Selection Day we may be unable to offer a place on the course due to the limited number of places available, this is normally because we have already offered places close to or above our contract limit and we are awaiting applicants responses.
Where possible we will inform you of this as soon as possible before the Selection Day, however this is not always possible.
If you are selected for a reserve place it means you were successful in the Admissions Test and/or interview and we would like to offer you a place but do not have availability at that time.
If this is the case we will notify UCAS and write to you detailing the conditions of your reserve place.
If places then become available we will contact the next preferred candidate.
Places may become available at short notice so you should ensure that you keep your contact details up to date, if we are unable to get hold of you quickly then we may contact the next candidate.
Unfortunately we are unable to guarantee that vacancies will become available.
If you do not get a place you will be required to re-apply through UCAS for the next academic year.
The number of candidates held on a reserve list vary depending on the total number of places on the course.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-study/applying-for-a-course/recognition-of-prior-learning:
If you have studied at higher education level before, or have completed other forms of learning that overlap with the content of your intended University of Suffolk course, we may be able to recognise and award credit for this.
This is known as Recognition of Prior Learning (or RPL).
We can recognise two types of prior learning:
For further information on RPL and how to apply for recognition, please see the University's Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) policy.
If you are applying for a University of Suffolk course and wish to be considered for RPL, please submit an application as normal indicating on your application form that you wish to have prior learning recognised so that you can enter the course at a more advanced stage.
Once the application is received,  if you are applying for recognition of prior certificated learning, additional information will be requested by the Admissions Team on your prior learning (for example certificates, transcripts showing your results and course information), to enable us to make a decision on whether the prior learning can be formally recognised.
If you wish to apply for recognition of prior experiential learning, your Course Leader will support you in completing Part A of the RPEL application form and will advise you on gathering a portfolio of supporting evidence.
If you would like further advice or guidance on applying for RPL, please contact the Admissions team in the first instance, you can find their details through the Get in Touch page.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/funding-your-studies/bursaries-and-scholarships:
The following support is available for students starting at the University of Suffolk.
Please note that eligibility criteria applies to all Bursaries and Scholarships.
For information on financial support available to International students, visit our International Fees and Scholarships page.
The University of Suffolk Bursary is open to full-time and part-time University of Suffolk students starting an undergraduate degree programme in 2025-26.
Successful applicants will receive a £500 bursary in each of their three years of study, subject to successful progression.
Part-time students will receive £500 pro rata per year of study.
The University of Suffolk is offering an exciting £1000 award for students starting on undergraduate courses at the Ipswich Campus.
The Accounting and Finance award is offering £1000 (cash) to new entrants to BSc (Hons) Accounting and Finance for September 2025 intake ONLY, who meet the following eligibility criteria:
The award will be paid at the beginning of December 2025 as a lump sum bank transfer into the bank account details provided on enrolment.
You do not need to apply for this award, you will be assessed automatically.
You may also be eligible for the Ipswich Award (£1000 in first year only) and other access-related financial support.
The Esports award is offering £1000 (cash) to new entrants to BA (Hons) Esports for September 2025 intake ONLY, who meet the following eligibility criteria:
The University of Suffolk is offering up to 70 bursary awards of £3,000 for students starting on the FdA Health and Wellbeing (Nursing Associate) course in the academic year 2025-26.
All graduates of the University of Suffolk are entitled to a loyalty reduction on selected postgraduate course fees.
The Alumni Postgraduate Loyalty Scheme gives a 25% reduction on course fees.
Students who live, or have lived, in local authority care could be eligible to apply for a bursary of £500 for each year of undergraduate study at the University of Suffolk.
This bursary is provided in line with our Standalone Pledge to assist eligible estranged students.
You could be eligible to apply for a bursary of up to £500 for each year of study at the University of Suffolk.
The University of Suffolk is offering two undergraduate scholarships for students who are seeking asylum in the UK, and who are not eligible to receive financial support from Student Finance England.
Our new bursary provides up to £6k per year for students in Wales; and payment of tuition fees for a three-year degree in Radiotherapy/Therapeutic Radiography in England.
Read more about the Valerie Carr Award here

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/funding-your-studies/healthcare-students:
Each year the NHS Business Service Authority (NHSBSA) advises of additional funding available for eligible pre-registration healthcare undergraduates.
To be eligible for the NHS Learning Support Fund elements you must be in receipt of statutory funding and must also meet Student Finance England's course related and residency criteria.
Courses which currently attract support from the NHS Learning Support Fund:
Dental Hygiene (Level 5 and 6)
Nursing (including Mental Health, Child and Adult branches)
Midwifery
Paramedicine (not Foundation or DipHE)
Physiotherapy
Radiography
Radiotherapy
You can also find information relating to funding for healthcare students on Blackbullion .
Find out more about the NHS Learning Support fund and start your application .
There is a £5,000 grant available per academic year for eligible new and continuing students.
There is also an additional £1000 for students studying an identified shortage specialism and a further £1000 for those falling into the regional incentive.
These additional amounts are added to the £5000 and there is no additional application needed
If you would like to find out more information on the Training Grant, take a look at the NHSBSA website.
Previously 'Child Dependent Allowance', there is £2000 available for students with child dependants, per academic year.
This is available to students who have parental responsibility for a child, either under the age of 15 or under 17 if the child is registered with special educational needs.
This element will not affect your access to child support or other means of funding such as Universal Credit or the Childcare Grant via Student Finance England.
Payments will be made in 3 instalments with your Training Grant payments.
Students on part-time courses will receive a pro rata amount.
If you would like to find out more information on the Parental Support, take a look at the NHSBSA website.
You may be able to claim for travel costs if your placement is further than the distance you travel to university.
You can also claim for rent for a second accommodation if it is too far to travel to and from your home base to placement.
You have a maximum of six months from the last date of the placement period you’re claiming for to submit your claim.
You must retain all receipts relating to your claim, this could include (but not limited to) public transport tickets, car park tickets or receipts and rent invoices.
The application and evidence must be submitted in PDF format.
If you would like to find out more information on the TDAE, take a look at the NHSBSA website.
If you need further guidance to submit your claim, please contact travelclaims@uos.ac.uk .
This fund offers an additional grant of up to £3,000 for eligible students to assist with living and studying costs for students who can show there is a shortfall between income and expenditure.
Students applying for ESF must have applied to the university for any hardship or other available funding.
Find out more information on the Financial Support Fund .
You can still apply for ESF even if your application to the FSF was unsuccessful.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-study/January-Intake:
The University of Suffolk is delighted to be able to offer a selection of our postgraduate taught programmes with an entry point in January 2026.
The University of Suffolk is a modern university on the rise, climbing 71 places in the Complete University Guide in four years from 2022 to 2026.
With 4,500 students from the UK and worldwide, we bring the world to Ipswich, creating a diverse student body and immersive experience for all students.
A graduate-employee leader, and 2nd for Postgraduate study in the UK (WUSCA 2025).
Start your journey to a successful career this January.
Find out more about each pathway by clicking on the course title below.
Business and Management courses:
MSc Financial Technology
MSc International Business Management
MSc Strategic People Management
London MBA
Suffolk MBA
Computing courses:
Professional Health courses:
Social Science and Humanities courses:
Further information about applying as a UK or international student can be found below.
"I chose to study at the University of Suffolk because of their innovative teaching, the block and blend approach means you can get a greater understanding of each module and the subject area."

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/study/mba-london-centre-uk:
The University of Suffolk MBA programme is taught at the London Centre with students attending in-person classes in the heart of London.
Studying on the MBA at the University of Suffolk London Centre will advance your business knowledge preparing you for senior manager roles and developing your leadership skills to enhance your employment and career opportunities.
Focusing on the business concept of the Triple Bottom Line (TBL) which considers ‘People, Planet and Profitʼ, the MBA will develop your analytical and strategic management skills preparing you for responsible leadership.
The MBA will equip you with an advanced understanding of the necessary social, environmental and financial considerations which you will need to build your management career in todayʼs global business environment.
You will learn how to apply theory to practice and communicate this effectively and appropriately in a global business environment.
Assessments will involve you communicating using academic and non-academic writing, employing oral and visual communication and working in groups.
London is a diverse and vibrant hub with more international company headquarters than any other European city as well as being home to one of Europe's largest startup ecosystems.
Located just steps away from iconic landmarks such as The Shard, Borough Market and Tower Bridge.
Located in the multicultural environment of one of the most cosmopolitan cities in the world, the University of Suffolk London Centre offers you the opportunity to study in this thriving atmosphere of commerce, innovation and entrepreneurship.
Typically, teaching will normally be timetabled for Tuesday/Wednesday and Thursday between 10.30am and 3.30pm.
LEARN MORE ABOUT THE LONDON CENTRE
This is a new programme and module content is subject to change as part of the validation process.
In a rapidly evolving global business environment, it is essential to grasp core finance and investment principles and understand their interaction with contemporary global issues such as ESG (environmental, social and governance).
Covering investment and financing decisions, asset pricing and financial reporting, the module equips students with tools to assess corporate financial health and understand international corporate finance.
The module aims to equip future leaders with the essential tools to make informed financial decisions in an increasingly complex and globally integrated financial landscape.
The globalisation of markets demands a thorough understanding of international marketing dynamics.
Brand leadership plays a crucial role in fostering customer loyalty and competitive advantage.
Integrating the principles of the Triple Bottom Line (People, Planet, Profit) into strategic marketing solutions this module develops creative and analytical thinking to ensure informed strategies align business performance with social and environmental sustainability.
This module aims to provide you with the tools and knowledge to navigate these complexities, ensuring they can develop effective marketing and branding strategies in a global context.
In today’s dynamic business environment, leaders and managers must be equipped with strategic skills that enable them to navigate change effectively.
This module will develop analytical and critical thinking skills required to dissect complex leadership and strategic challenges and which are essential for making sound decisions that align with organisational goals.
Understanding the ethical implications of decisions is crucial for responsible leadership and this module emphasises the importance of integrity and social responsibility, which are vital for building trust and sustainable business practices.
In today’s rapidly evolving corporate climate, effective management of human resources and the cultivation of a positive organisational culture are crucial for achieving long-term success and competitive advantage.
This module will equip you with the knowledge, skills and practical insights necessary to lead diverse teams and foster an inclusive as well as innovative work culture in organisations.
By combining theoretical foundations with practical applications of people management concept this module will enable you to become effective managers capable of driving organisational success in a complex, global and dynamic environment.
You will benefit from a comprehensive understanding of people's behaviour and culture in the workplace and enable the development of relevant contemporary skill sets necessary for effective management of people at work.
The TBL Business Plan module is designed to equip you with the essential skills and knowledge required to plan and develop a comprehensive business plan that effectively integrates social, environmental and economic considerations.
In today's complex business landscape, the ability to research and plan to balance these three dimensions—often referred to as "People, Planet, Profit"—is critical for future business leaders and managers.
This module prioritises planning as well as practical applications through project-based learning and conducting business research.
This module will enhance preparedness for strategic decision-making while promoting sustainable and ethical business practices, in preparation for successful careers in diverse organisational contexts.
The London Centre is situated in the heart of London, surrounded by iconic landmarks and innovation; there is so much to explore and to be inspired by.
London is rich in history, arts, culture as well as having a diverse range of eateries, attractions and events; whatever your interests, there is something for everybody.
As the country's capital, the extensive transport links also makes it easy to reach and explore the rest of the UK.
Applicants to hold a degree with a minimum 2.2 classification or University of Suffolk approved equivalent.
Students will be required to have a minimum of 1 years business experience.
Applicants to supply a reference
Applicants must be able to demonstrate in their written application and discuss in their interview evidence of problem solving, working in teams and making decisions in a professional business operations area.
Professional business operations areas are considered to be areas such as human resources, finance, marketing, sales, customer service, compliance, facilities, logistics or manufacturing.
International applicants will need IELTS (academic) with a minimum overall score of 6.5 and a minimum of 5.5 in each component or University of Suffolk approved English Test.
Please select your country of permanent residence from the list below, specific requirements for your country will then be shown
Postgraduate Loans are available for this course
Applying for a postgraduate programme at the London Centre is simple, you can apply using the link below.
An MBA (Master of Business Administration) can open up a wide range of career opportunities and provide individuals with the skills and knowledge needed to excel in various fields of business.
It's important to note that the specific career opportunities and destinations can vary based on individual interests and market trends.
Some career paths are listed below:
Dr Fran Hyde is the Course Leader for the MBA at our London Centre.
If you would like more information on this course please do get in touch with the Dean and Course Leader, Dr Fran Hyde on f.hyde2@uos.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/how-to-apply/application-pathway-postgraduate:
Applications for postgraduate-taught study can be made directly to the University using our online Direct Application Form - please note we do not accept applications in any other format.
If you would like to submit an application for the MBA at our London Centre please apply using the London Centre Direct Application form .
Please ensure that you complete the form as fully and accurately as possible and ensure that you upload all supporting documentation such as educational certificates, references, personal statement and evidence of your English language proficiency, before you press submit.
This will ensure that the Admissions team can process your application as smoothly as possible.
Some professional health courses will have additional requirements.
These will be outlined on the relevant course page.
If you are an international student applying to study in the UK on the Student Route visa you must study your degree on a full-time basis.
On receipt of your application you will be sent an acknowledgement email containing a unique Username and Password, which allows you to track the progress of your application.
Please ensure that you quote this username every time you contact the university.
It is important that the email address you provide on your application is correct, current and one that you access regularly.
Familiarise yourself with the entry requirements for your course (all details can be found on the course page ) and ensure you meet – or have the potential to meet – them.
Provide all the necessary supporting documents to help speed up your application.
Standard supporting documents include;
We recommend that you submit your application as early as possible to allow plenty of time for processing and for you to complete the CAS process in time for the start of the course.
Some courses will close early for international applications, and this will be stated on the relevant course page.
Applications received after this date will be considered for the next cycle.
Your personal statement must be your own work - do not confer with other applicants or copy information from the internet.
Do your research.
Tailor your personal statement to the course you are applying and explain your motivation to study at the University of Suffolk.
Perhaps you could highlight a particular module that interests you or outline how the course will build on existing knowledge or experience.
Try to link the course content to your future career goals and explain how this qualification will support your ambitions.
Be concise and try to present your information in a logical format so that it is clear and easy to understand.
Need support applying?
Our in-country representatives are able to help you through your application to the University of Suffolk.
Find an agent in your country >
If your application is successful your offer letter will be emailed to you.
It is important that you provide us with your current email address when you apply.
To accept your offer, log into your Applicant Area , navigate to 'Manage my application' and click ‘Accept Your Offer’
If you have already met all of the entry requirements for the course (including the English language requirement) we will make you an unconditional offer.
If you are still awaiting exam or language test results, or if you have not included certificates and transcripts for your qualifications with your application, we may decide to make you an offer that is conditional on providing this evidence.
You should ensure that you meet your offer conditions as soon as possible to allow plenty of time to complete the CAS process.
If you foresee any delay, please contact the Admissions team for further advice.
We are only able to defer applications for unconditional offer holders.
Deferral is subject to the approval of the Admission Tutor for your course.
Once you have met all conditions of your offer you will then be required to pay your Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) deposit payment to secure your place.
The CAS deposit is £5,000.
The CAS deposit is a tuition fee payment and will be deducted from your outstanding balance once you have enrolled on your course.
Please do not attempt to pay your CAS deposit before we have sent payment instructions to you.
A Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) is a unique number that confirms you have been accepted on a course in the UK.
You will need a CAS to submit your Student visa application
Find out how to apply for a CAS
For information on applying for a visa, visit our visas and immigration information.
Need support applying for your visa?

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/funding-your-studies/postgraduate-study/postgraduate-scholarships:
There are a variety of Masters scholarships and bursaries are available for postgraduate degrees.
Charities and government funding bodies all provide financial support for further study, helping to cover tuition fees and living costs.
We have provided a list below of some available.
The Foundation is looking for Muslims who are active in their communities, and can show how they want to combat Islamophobia and improve perceptions of Muslims or raise aspirations in British Muslim communities.
Applications are now open for 2025 entry.
Please see Aziz Foundation website for further information and to apply
The Snowdon Trust provides financial awards to disabled students to access further and higher education in the UK.
Please visit their website for more information and application forms.
This is scholarship not administrated by the University.
Students eligible for the SEMBA Scholarship will receive a £1000 fee discount on the full-time tuition fees.
Find out more and how to apply .

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/postgraduate-loyalty-scheme:
The Alumni Postgraduate Loyalty Scheme has been developed to support and encourage alumni students to progress to full or part-time postgraduate taught or research programmes at the University, including PhD study.
To be eligible for the University of Suffolk Alumni Postgraduate Loyalty Scheme you must meet all the following criteria:
Please note the following:
All students who are eligible will be automatically considered for the bursary award during the admissions process.
No application is required.
"Applying for the MA in Creative and Critical Writing was the easiest decision I have ever made.
Another year studying at Suffolk with the most encouraging course team was the dream scenario to grow my passion for research."

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/business:
Innovation Labs at University of Suffolk is the our focal point for developing new entrepreneurs and innovative Start Ups.
As well as hot-desk space, we have meeting, seminar rooms and digital equipment available available to members and non-members.
And as part of the wider Innovation Labs group, we offer wraparound support to members.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/yvonne-malpass:
Yvonne has extensive experience in education and training leading to a sustained record of success in further education and apprenticeships.
Yvonne led a retail and commercial enterprise apprenticeship department to achieve outstanding for 'employer responsiveness' during a 2010 Ofsted inspection and was the apprenticeship nominee for the EIF pilot in November 2018.
Yvonne also has recent experience of strategic leadership as an Assistant Principal responsible for 2,000 apprentices in a grade one FE college.
The role also involved managing 58 different standards, particularly in health, engineering, digital and business, working with a range of EPA organizations, experience of commissioning and implementing a new apprenticeship platform, working with both levy and non-levy employers, and managing a diverse range of partnerships and sub-contracts.
Yvonne won a Brap equality and diversity award in 2007, became an Ofqual expert for apprenticeships and the hair and beauty industry in 2018, appointed as an honorary member of city and guilds in recognition for her contribution to education and training and had strategic responsibility for a portfolio of high -profile national contracts with ETF and the DFE in 2020.
One of Yvonne's biggest passions in education has been to support learners to enter and win skills competitions such as world skills and has had considerable success over the years.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/get-in-touch/people-directory/bece/ellen-rush:
Apprenticeships Contracts Manager, starting her career as an apprentice herself, Ellen has previously worked in local Government to support apprenticeship growth and quality within Suffolk.
Ellen has experience and passion for the apprenticeship pathway to build skills within the workplace for our current and future workforce.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/get-in-touch/people-directory/bece/rob-storer:
Rob has worked in Further Education, Apprenticeships and Independent training providers for nearly 30 years and have had a variety of senior leadership positions such as Director of Curriculum, Director of Services to Business, Regional Business Manager, Head of Land-based studies and Quality Improvement Manager.
He has current experience of Ofsted Inspections and has acted as an External Examiner for two Universities, and an External Verifier for BTEC.
Rob has a Bachelor of Arts Honours degree in Landscape Architecture from the University of Greenwich and a Post Graduate Certificate in Education.
Rob’s interests include looking after his garden, developing and maintaining his two allotments, and buying and collecting antiques and retro’s.
His teaching experience includes being a Programme leader for the Foundation Degree in Landscape and Garden design as well as teaching horticulture and landscaping programmes in Further Education.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/jonni-burton:
Jonni provides dedicated compliance support for apprenticeship funded programmes as part of the Apprenticeship Hub and manages and develops internal audit practices to embed quality at the core of the delivery for Work Based Learning provision.
Jonni relocated from London in 2015, joining Suffolk New College continuing his career as a Tutor/Assessor and Internal Quality Assurance in Business Administration, Customer Service and Retail before being promoted to a managerial position as Apprenticeships Coordinator.
Jonni has built positive working relationships while delivering apprenticeship programmes with prestigious employers including the NHS, Goldman Sachs, Taylor Wimpey, Ipswich Borough Council, Suffolk Highways and more.
Following graduating from The University of North London with a Bachelor’s degree in Education Studies, Jonni’s extensive experience in further education also includes quality and assurance, business development and assisted with the effective management and delivery of government programmes such as Apprenticeships, Train to Gain, E2E and employment projects in partnership with JobCentre Plus.
Jonni is pleased to have joined the University of Suffolk and looks forward to using his expertise to develop and grow the apprenticeship provision within Higher Education.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/lil-atkinson:
Lil joined the Apprenticeship Hub in April 2022, having had a successful career in both the private and public sector, and working in education for the last 15 years.
Lil has experience of developing and implementing a full careers provision for a local secondary school, ensuring that this met the Gatsby Benchmark and supported targeted careers advice and guidance for students.
She has extensive knowledge and experience of apprenticeships and their delivery, supporting candidates from Level 2 to Level 6 across a range of sectors and qualifications with outstanding outcomes.
Lil is a qualified Assessor,  IQA and an Associate of the Society for Education and Training.
She has experience of working collaboratively with a diverse range of employers and apprentices and is looking forward to supporting both in her role as Apprenticeship Practice Educator in the School of Allied Health Sciences.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/anna-arbor:
Anna Arbor is a Practice Educator at the University of Suffolk.
A proud alumna of the University, she graduated in October 2018 with a BA (Hons) in English, specialising in Education Practice.
Her academic focus included Differentiation and Special Educational Needs.
With over a decade of professional experience in the Health and Social Care sector, Anna brings a wealth of practical insight to her role.
She has played an active role in audits and inspections, contributing to the continuous improvement of apprenticeship provision.
Her work supports compliance with regulatory standards set by the Department for Education, the Office for Students, and Ofsted.
Anna is passionate about inclusivity, supporting learners, and enhancing the student experience.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/linda-mattholie:
Linda joined the Apprenticeship Hub team as an Apprenticeship Practice Educator for the School of Health and Sports Sciences in April 2022.
With a cheerful positive personality she likes to utilise her strengths in successful Apprenticeship journeys.
Linda is a qualified Teacher, Assessor, Quality Assurer with over twenty years of experience in delivering Apprenticeships, and is proud to have supported many successful outcomes, with a proven high track record of taking learners through to End Point Assessment.
This includes both initial and higher progression qualification aims.
Over time Linda has developed a wealth of knowledge and transferrable skills through varied educational roles.
She strongly believes that part of this success is the good working relationships that she has built with all stakeholders to provide not only achievement but an enjoyable experience along the way.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/fiona-page:
Fiona has worked in Marketing for the majority of her career with over 10 years’ experience across varying sectors.
Having completed her Level 5 Institute of Leadership and Management in 2014, she went on to become the UK Marketing Manager for a global Financial Technology company.
In 2018, she made the decision to take her career in a different direction and put into practise the knowledge she gained from studying and working full time and became an Apprenticeship Skills Coach for Leadership and Management in further education.
Fiona joined the University in October 2019 as the skills coach for the Digital Technology Solutions Apprenticeships within the Business Engagement and Entrepreneurship team at IWIC.
She works closely with academic departments and employers to coach, monitor and develop the apprentices and the Higher and Degree Apprenticeships.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/news/university-to-accelerate-new-apprenticeships-after-government-backing:
The Office for Students on Tuesday announced allocations for its Wave 3 degree apprenticeships funding competition, with the University of Suffolk securing £422,000.
The funding will be used to accelerate the introduction of a series of new Level 6 apprenticeships at the University in 2025.
Those apprenticeship standards include Supply Chain Leadership Programme, Project Manager, Environmental Practitioner, Environmental Health Practitioner, Construction Site Management, Design and Construction Management, Architectural Assistant and Data Scientist.The funding does not apply to Level 7 apprenticeships – those equivalent to a Master’s degree.
The Office for Students competition aimed to support a number of priorities, including growing the number of providers offering degree apprenticeships, bolstering the number of learners on degree apprenticeships, increasing equality of opportunity, and boosting the number of degree apprenticeship standards offered.
For the University of Suffolk, the priorities include expanding the offering to meet the skills needs and requirements of employers in the region, supporting regional growth projects such as Freeport East, Sizewell C and the Safe Suffolk Renters initiative, and responding to the skills demand for the NHS.
Professor Jenny Higham, Vice-Chancellor at the University of Suffolk said: “This is great news for the university and evidence of successful partnership working.
"I am delighted to strengthen our commitment to offering degree apprenticeships.
“We will continue to expand our offer to meet the requirements of employers in our region.”
Yvonne Malpas, Director of Apprenticeships at the University of Suffolk, who led the successful bid for funding said: “This will allow us to accelerate our growth plan and offer a more inclusive and diverse range of apprenticeship standards to meet the regional skills gaps.”
The University has enjoyed growth in its apprenticeship provision over recent years.
It is among a number of health and education partners to form the Centre of Excellence for Health Apprenticeships earlier this year, in a bid to help address workforce challenges in the health and social care sectors.
In addition, the university was ranked as the fifth highest university provider nationally for its overall apprenticeship achievement rate among small-medium sized providers for 2022/23.
John Blake, Director for Fair Access and Participation at the Office for Students, said: “Since we launched this degree apprenticeships fund last year, I have been continually impressed with the range, scope and ambition of the bids we have received, and this round of bids has been no different.
“I have been particularly pleased to see how universities and colleges have prioritised recruiting and supporting students from all backgrounds, and the successful bids have all demonstrated real commitment to addressing and removing barriers for students to succeed.”
To find out more about the University’s degree apprenticeship offering visit the webpage here: Degree Apprenticeships | University of Suffolk (uos.ac.uk) .

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/news/digital-apprentice-wins-national-award:
BT apprentice Xenia Zimmermann is studying software engineering and won the Professional Development Award at the recent IT and Digital Apprenticeships Awards held in Birmingham.
Reflecting on her award win, Xenia said: “I am so honoured to have won this award.
“I was up against some brilliant apprentices who should all be proud of what they have achieved.
“I've grown a lot throughout my apprenticeship at BT and the University of Suffolk and it is so nice to be recognised for my work and learning.”
Xenia was interviewed prior to the awards finals and was able to share more details about her work and projects.
This included repurposing two out-of-service but still operational subsea fibre cables for research, thus extending the cables’ lifetime and allowing research organisations access to these cables which are costly to install and maintain.
In addition, Xenia also highlighted her direct support for school-aged students and other apprentices by hosting work experience at BT for students in 2022.
She is currently hosting two year 12 students and has been an apprentice buddy for a student in the year below her, as well as providing support to other apprentices.
In awarding the Professional Development Award, judges looked for skills competence as well as contribution to business and they praised Xenia’s “deep understanding for professional development within her role”.
Dr Syed Aslam, course leader in Digital and Technology Solutions (Apprenticeships) at the University of Suffolk said recognising apprentices and their work is very important.
“All our apprentices work hard every day and awards such as these put them in the spotlight and encourage others to look at apprenticeships an an option.”
Commenting on Xenia’s success, Yvonne Malpass, Director of Apprenticeships at the University of Suffolk, said: “We are so proud of all our apprentices here and we congratulate Xenia on being recognised with a national award for all her hard work.
“To showcase apprentices on the national stage gives them the acknowledgement they deserve, and it shows apprenticeships in a great light.”
Fellow BT Apprentice and University of Suffolk student, Zac Ketteringham also reached the national finals in the Cyber Apprentice of the Year category.
For more details about Apprenticeships at the University of Suffolk go to Our Apprenticeships | University of Suffolk (uos.ac.uk)

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/news/digital-apprentices-through-to-national-finals:
Zachary Ketteringham and Xenia Zimmermann are both BT apprentices studying cyber security and software engineering respectively and will join fellow nominees at the national awards ceremony that will be held in Birmingham later this month.
Zac is nominated in the Cyber Apprentice of the Year category while Xenia is nominated in two categories – Professional Development Award and Digital Degree Apprentice of the Year.
The awards recognise the rising stars of UK Digital Apprentices in a variety of categories.
Xenia said: "I feel really honoured to be nominated for two awards in the British Computing Society's IT and Digital Apprenticeship Awards.
“I've loved being able to learn lots throughout my apprenticeship at BT and University of Suffolk and I'm excited to attend the award ceremony alongside colleagues who have supported me for the last three years.
I'm really looking forward to meeting and networking with other early careers professionals from different industries.”
Zac added: “I'm incredibly honoured to represent the University of Suffolk at the Apprenticeship Awards in Birmingham this year.
Advocating for our digital and technology solutions apprenticeship scheme has been a privilege.
The interview process allowed me to demonstrate the benefits of apprenticeships, showing how my experience in cybersecurity has developed my skills and professionalism, and helped me overcome challenges.
I have found so many advantages of apprenticeships, such as allowing me to develop lots of theoretical knowledge, and then being able to apply this knowledge within a world-class cyber security team managing DDoS protection for BT’s internal infrastructure.
This not only builds valuable skills but also develops a network of professional contacts and offers insights into organisational operations
I believe apprenticeships should be recognised as a mainstream career path for school leavers alongside traditional university routes.
They offer a unique blend of learning and earning, setting graduates on a successful career path from the start.
I look forward to building my career out further in the cyber security landscape."
Dr Syed Aslam, course leader in Digital and Technology Solutions (Apprenticeships) at the University of Suffolk said: “We are extremely proud of the progress of all our apprentices and for Zac and Xenia to be among others being recognised nationally is fantastic for them and for the University.”
The nominations come on the back of news earlier this year which revealed the University of Suffolk is ranked as the fifth highest university provider nationally for overall quality of apprenticeship achievements among small to medium sized providers from data given by Quality Achievement Rates (QAR).
Yvonne Malpass, Director of Apprenticeships at the University of Suffolk added: “Being nominated for a national award is already a victory in itself.
This is a testament to the hard work and dedication from our apprentices Zac and Xenia who we wish every success at the awards event in Birmingham on June 27.”

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/academic-schools/school-of-nursing-midwifery-and-public-health--/health-cpd:
The School of Nursing, Midwifery and Public Health offers a range of high quality Continuing Professional Development (CPD) opportunities for individuals and organisations working within the Heath and Care sector.
Our CPD portfolio is continually updated to respond quickly to national and local initiatives, and has been designed to be delivered in a flexible way with a range of delivery patterns including:
All CPD courses offered by the School of Nursing, Midwifery and Public Health are based on clinical delivery requirements and research into your practice, and are designed to affect a real and lasting practical impact on health and care delivery and improvement.
For more information, view or download our CPD in Health, Wellbeing and Integrated Care brochure .
Our Health CPD masterclass series has been tailored to address crucial and often complex areas of health and social care whilst being delivered by experts in their field.
Booking are now open via Eventbrite for the following sessions:
Spaces are limited.
Contact cpdhealth@uos.ac.uk if you require more information.
Mental Wellbeing: Supporting through difficult times led by Justin Hunter (Mental Health Nursing Course Leader) and Darren Rowell-Burton (Mental Health Nursing Degree Apprenticeship Course Leader).
This two-day course is available to anyone in the private, voluntary or independent sector.
Dates by negotiation.
For more information, please contact engage@uos.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/business/professional-development-and-short-courses/pathways-training-development-fund:
PTF provides grants to SMEs & Social Enterprises (including Community Interest Companies) in Norfolk and Suffolk, covering up to 75% of staff training costs.
It is managed by Suffolk County Council in partnership with Norfolk County Council and a network of local training providers.
We have 6 courses that are eligible for funding:
For details of eligibility and to apply please see the Pathways Training Fund Application Guide .

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/study/why-choose-the-university-of-suffolk/the-suffolk-learning-experience:
Understanding how you will learn
At Suffolk, the majority of our undergraduate programmes are delivered as “block and blend”.
Block and blend is an innovative way of delivering learning and teaching, and we believe has many advantages for our students.
Some of our courses, notably those which are apprenticeships, or co-taught with apprenticeship programmes remain as semesterised learning.
The primary difference between these approaches is that in block, students typically complete one module at a time, while on semesterised courses, students typically study 3 modules at a time.
We are also introducing some changes between now and 2026/27 to extend the length of these blocks.
Click on the titles below to find out more.
Our block and blend programmes are designed so that you will typically study one module at a time (also known as a block).
The block will usually last for 4 weeks (the structure may differ for some professional degree courses), and in that time, you will be supported to deep dive into concepts through learning and teaching which takes place on campus and online in our online learning environment, Brightspace.
The amount of tutor structured learning in a block is the same as the amount of tutor structured learning on a non-block programme, but because it is focused helps you to gain confidence and concentrate your learning in one area.
Learning will be delivered through a blend of lectures, seminars and tutorials and you will also be provided with a range of media rich and interactive activities to enhance your understanding and enable you to test your learning.
These activities might include work to be completed before a lecture, seminar or tutorial, or activities to be completed individually or collaboratively with fellow students.
As well as learning through modules, your course may include “Learning Hubs”.
These hubs are designed to help you to develop a range of skills which are critical to your success.
Examples of hubs include those where you will develop your academic writing, your study effectiveness and resilience or technical skills appropriate to your programme.
In block and blend you will normally be assessed at the end of each module or block, rather than at the end of a semester .
This means that you are able to test your learning and our course teams can understand how your learning and understanding Is developing throughout the academic year.
Through your blocks, your lecturers might also set you short quizzes in Brightspace, or other informal assessment activities which help them to see where you may need additional support or content to better understand the content in your programme.
As we have adopted a more blended approach to learning we also record lectures and, as appropriate seminars, enabling you to revisit content and follow up on learning outside of the classroom activity.
Our students have told us that they find block and blend supports them in their studies because it enables them to better manage their time, with learning focussed on one module at a time, rather than the three simultaneous they would undertake if studying full time on a non-block programme.
It also helps them to see how they are progressing through their programmes and developing their knowledge and understanding through regular assessment.
Our students have also fed back positively on the ability to revisit learning through recordings and other online content.
Why we're moving to 30 credit modules
We’re switching to a 30-credit module structure based on what we’ve learned from delivering courses in a Block and Blend format.
You, the students have told us you like this style of learning and tend to do better with it, but many of you have told us you’d prefer longer blocks.
So, we’re extending each block from five weeks (four weeks of teaching plus one week of assessment) to seven weeks (six weeks of teaching plus one week for assessment).
This gives you more time to get into the module content without it feeling rushed.
We’re also cutting down on the amount of assessment you will do, which should help make things more manageable.
Plus, we’re introducing a more standardised academic year with a consistent calendar—making it easier for you to plan ahead and balance university with everything else.
What’s happening with course design
Every course at the Ipswich campus is being refreshed and updated by the 2026/27 academic year.
As always, we regularly review and update course content to keep it current and based on the latest research.
And we’re making sure assessments are grounded in real-world situations to help boost your employability and make sure you’re gaining skills ready for your future career.
Our non-block programmes are those which are delivered as apprenticeships or are delivered alongside apprenticeships.
On non-block programmes you will still experience blended learning, with delivery on campus and through Brightspace, and access to a range of media rich resources and activities as well as recorded lectures and seminars.
A full time student will study 3 modules at the same time over the period of one semester.
Assessment of these modules is typically towards the end of the semester.
The University of Suffolk provides all students with a Personal Academic Coach, or PAC.
The PAC is a member of your course team, and will, as far as possible, be your coach throughout your degree programme.
Personal Academic Coaching is a tool which helps you to understand your learning progress, and to explore ideas and opportunities to enhance you learning or skills development.
You will work with your coach individually or as part of a group with fellow students.
You will be asked to reflect on what is going well, and where you may be facing challenges.
You will explore where you can access additional support, for example from the Library and Learning Services team or Student Life team.
As you progress through your learning you will also begin to reflect on what’s next – and how to make the step into further higher study or your chosen career.
The Suffolk Learning Hubs were created as a way of supporting individual students’ learning in higher education by developing their academic, transferable and employability skills alongside supporting their resilience and wellbeing.
You can read more on our Suffolk Learning Hubs page .
In a rapidly changing world, we have created a stable and supportive community where our students experience the highest quality in teaching, learning and social environments.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/visit-us/campus-tours:
We understand how important seeing a campus is in making the decision of where to study.
A campus tour is an excellent opportunity to be shown around where you could be studying, and to have a chat with a current student about their experience at the University of Suffolk.
Please use the below form to sign up to an upcoming tour.
Please note:
If you have any further questions or requests for the day of your tour, please contact us .
We look forward to meeting you soon!
BOOK A CAMPUS TOUR NOW
For more information about the University of Suffolk, why not come along to one of our large University Open Days and view the campus?

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/your-campus/partner-colleges/the-place-university-centre:
Opening in May 2025, The Place will be a University of Suffolk hub in the heart of Great Yarmouth town centre and a big development for the East Coast College campus.
East Coast College is proud to be a founding partner of the University of Suffolk and is continuing to develop its campuses with the opening of The Place – a new university centre in the heart of Great Yarmouth.
The £17m university centre, library and learning centre, which is being developed in the former Palmers building, aims to upskill the people of Great Yarmouth and beyond by providing the opportunity to gain a degree qualification on their doorstep.
Having invested £3.5m, East Coast College and the University of Suffolk are working hand in hand to provide an exceptional university centre with outstanding teaching as well as state-of-the-art facilities.
The new centre brings in the opportunity for East Coast College to increase their degree offer and bring even more people into the regenerating Great Yarmouth town centre.
This will add to the 40+ degree-level courses currently delivered at the college’s Lowestoft and Great Yarmouth campuses, including Higher National Certificates and Diplomas, Foundation Degrees, Honours Degrees and Post-graduate studies.
Find out more about other services at The Place
In April 2024, guests and stakeholders enjoyed a tour of The Place in Great Yarmouth as part of a topping out event to mark a key milestone in building work at the new £17m library and learning hub.
"We are excited by the opportunity to create a vibrant community at The Place to deliver skills-based courses, training programmes and work in partnership with business."

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/your-campus/ipswich-campus/waterfront-building:
The Waterfront Building, located in the heart of the bustling Ipswich Waterfront, opened in 2008 and was our first dedicated teaching, learning and social space.
The building has six floors, one auditorium which seats 200 people, two main lecture theatres each seating 140 people and 34 teaching rooms seating between 18 and 80 people.
Every teaching room has IT equipment enhancing students learning experience and spread across the open study areas there are approximately 50 iMacs.
The dual function technology allows students to choose between Microsoft Windows and Apple Mac software, allowing students to utilise the technology that best supports their chosen field of study.
The Waterfront Building supports flexible learning with open study on all floors, where students can access networked computers.
Students are able to socialise in Paddy & Scott’s Café, which looks out onto the Waterfront, where students can enjoy the cosmopolitan mix of arts facilities, cafés, restaurants, public houses and open social space.
Next to our main Waterfront Reception is the Student Centre, a one-stop-shop, giving current and potential students information and advice on all aspects of student life including course advice and how to apply.
The Student Centre has dedicated Advisors on hand to deal with enquiries, either face-to-face, over the phone or via email.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/your-campus/ipswich-campus/james-hehir-building:
This £21m building is home to specialist teaching facilities, as well as general teaching and study space.
The James Hehir Building is a six storey, 4013m building which is a few minutes walk from the main Waterfront Building.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/your-campus/ipswich-campus/health-and-wellbeing-building:
The £15m state-of-the-art Health and Wellbeing Building is a new space on campus dedicated to the promotion of integrated care among our student body, practice partners and the wider community.
Opened in 2022, it offers students access to an array of cutting-edge clinical simulation amenities.
These include two simulated hospital wards, a midwifery birthing unit, recently upgraded physiotherapy instructional areas, a modern sports and exercise centre, and a fully operational radiography imaging suite.
The building is also home to the Institute of Health and Wellbeing Research and the Integrated Care Academy and the clinical unit where our strategic partners, Suffolk MIND and Allied Health Professionals Suffolk, provide their services to the community.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/your-campus/ipswich-campus/arts-building:
The Arts Building is the base for the University of Suffolk Art and Design courses.
It houses state-of-the-art facilities for courses including: Fine Art, Graphic Design and Graphic Illustration, Film, Architecture, Computer Games Design and Photography.
The facilities include a range of studios for Painting and Sculpture with adjacent spaces for Installation and Video.
A Drawing Studio, workshops and an exceptionally well-equipped Print Studio enhance the student experience.
IT facilities include iMac and Mac Pro Suites as well as specialist IT facilities for Computer Games Design.
In addition there is a Film Studio and associated editing suites, one equipped with a full lighting rig and sound system, and industry standard studios, dark rooms and digital suites specific to photography.
The print room houses two printing presses.
One is an over 100-year-old Columbian press that is one of 415 surviving presses (recorded in a census between 2013–2017) of this type.
The other is a smaller relief press called an Albion press made in 1840.
Making these the oldest pieces of working equipment in the University.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/your-campus/ipswich-campus/the-atrium:
A £5.5m refurbishment of the West Building has created The Atrium, which opened in September 2016.
The Atrium has benefited from a complete refurbishment of the current facilities resulting in the provision of modern, accessible facilities including:
The building will be known for bringing STEM subjects (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) together.
Alongside The James Hehir Building, already located on the Waterfront, The Atrium will further increase provision in this growth sector.
The building previously housed the Estates and IT teams who have now moved to Thomas Slade Court.
The refurbishment of the West Building was made possible partly thanks to a £1.75m award by the Local Enterprise Partnership (LEP) as part of the New Anglia LEPs Growth Deal with the Government.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/your-campus/ipswich-campus/library-building:
The Library Building is home to the Students' Union offices, where the elected President, Vice-President and SU Council Officers are based, and the SU Campus Shop.
Adjacent to the Student's Union Campus Shop there is a breakout space complete with open access PCs.
The Library was officially re-opened by Lord Cunliffe on 8 July 2010 and provides a bright and welcoming study space for all students and staff.
The Library is located on the first floor offering quiet areas, laptop spaces, private booths for single or group occupancy, study areas, resource rooms and of course the library itself.
Within the Library Building you will find our Library and Learning Services team including our Library Staff, Learning and Teaching Librarians and Academic Skills Advisor who can support you with your studies.
More help is available on our University of Suffolk Library and Learning Services page .

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/your-campus/ipswich-campus/the-hold:
The Hold is a partnership between Suffolk County Council, Suffolk Archives and the University of Suffolk.
It has received funding from the National Lottery Heritage Fund, other national organisations, and local Suffolk heritage groups.
With more than 900 years of the county's rich and diverse history to discover,  this exciting new building allows people of all ages and backgrounds to step inside and discover more about where they live and their own heritage.
The Hold is open to everyone, offering not only archives specific services in the searchroom, library, and education room, but also state-of-the-art public facilities and teaching spaces for staff and students from the University of Suffolk.
An exhibition gallery, café, shop and garden complete the visitor experience.
The Hold opened its doors to the public for the first time in September 2020.
For more information on the facilities, including opening hours, please visit Suffolk Archives .

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/your-campus/ipswich-campus/digitech-centre:
We have worked in close collaboration with BT to develop the DigiTech Centre, a £9.6 million research and engineering facility at BT’s Adastral Park.
DigiTech is a Centre of Excellence in Digital Skills for Teaching & Learning, Research and Knowledge Exchange at the University of Suffolk
Adastral Park is BT’s global Research and Development centre and has played a pivotal role in telecommunications research, such as the commercialisation of single-mode optical fibre, and the recent development of the world’s first quantum networks.
The DigiTech Centre is now fully open and is providing cutting-edge digital skills for people looking to pursue careers in information and communications technology, and has received the blessing of Her Royal Highness, Princess Anne.
Specialist high tech laboratories are at the heart of DigiTech, and are being used jointly by University staff, students and businesses at Adastral Park and across the region.
DigiTech is now the principal home for undergraduate, apprenticeship and postgraduate computing provision at the University of Suffolk.
Our students have access to a secure Cyber Range, an enterprise-grade Juniper networking sandpit, and an AI Compute Server delivering 9.7 64-bit double precision teraflops of computational resources, among other facilities.
In research and knowledge exchange, the DigiTech Centre is the physical location of the Digital Futures Institute .
We are undertaking extensive research and business collaborations in Artificial Intelligence, automation, cybersecurity, Internet of Things, networks, serious games, robotics and software, with PhD student and postdoctoral projects already being based at the centre.
The Smart House is now the lynchpin for the work of the Suffolk Sustainability Institute , in particular our research into “net zero” operations and our commitment as a university in this area.
The DigiTech Centre is a unique partnership uniting our young, and modern University with a world leading telecommunications company in BT.
In a rapidly developing technological age, the DigiTech Centre is a state of the art ‘solution centre’ for SMEs and other businesses as well as a research and knowledge transfer hub.
The Centre has world-class co-working specialist laboratories and will make Suffolk a recognised destination for industry-focused ICT and Digital Creative study programmes and an internationally recognised destination for continuous professional development in digital technologies.
Explore our Computing courses
DigiTech Strategy 2024 - 2030
The DigiTech Centre offers students the opportunity to study industry connected educational courses, in our new world-class specialist laboratories.
Our students can experience more project-based learning opportunities where they can practice learning by doing, interacting with businesses and other organisations alongside their studies.
The DigiTech Centre is a collaboration between University of Suffolk and BT, with funding from the New Anglia Local Enterprise Partnership (LEP).
The centre is part of the School of Engineering, Arts, Science and Technology (EAST) at the University of Suffolk and is based at the heart of Adastral Park, one of Europe’s largest science and technology business parks.
Adastral Park is home to BT’s Applied Innovation Labs, and an exciting cluster of over 100 other high-tech digital and technology companies based at Martlesham Heath.
Being part of a large technology community gives our students many opportunities for collaboration and informal learning.
In addition, students have access to more social, entertainment and sports facilities - and "the Hub" is a great place to socialise and network.
The DigiTech Centre will give our students the opportunity to become part of the Adastral Park community, one of Europe’s largest Science and Technology campuses.
As a student you will study in modern facilities and have access to state-of-the-art laboratories and equipment - perhaps you will develop deep learning models which will be trained on terabytes of data on our AI Compute Server, design and test network configurations on the enterprise grade routers and switches in our Juniper networking sandpit, or undertake penetration testing in our Cyber Range.
Importantly, you will have an opportunity to do some of your course work with businesses as part of your study, participate in hackathons supported by industry mentors, take up placements and internships, and benefit from the range of technology events and support programmes that run at Adastral Park.
This will make your learning more industry relevant and will improve your opportunities to secure top jobs upon graduation.
Adastral Park is at the heart of the UK's digital ecosystem.
It hosts a national operation centre, test facilities and a global R&D unit, all set amongst a thriving community of collaborative technological innovation.
Around 3,000 BT employees and around 1,000 employees from other companies are based at the Park.
Each year there are around 60,000 visitors to Adastral Park, with around 1,100 of them being leaders from global business or government.
The DigiTech centre will enable the University of Suffolk to have an education centre at the heart of Adastral Park where students will become part of this thriving business and skills development community.
Further information about Adastral Park .
Initially, the University of Suffolk will offer the following courses which will have modules delivered at the DigiTech Centre:
We expect students to be based at Adastral Park for full days.
This could be either part time (~2 days a week) or on block.
Students will not be expected to travel between sites on the same day.
Full details on the location of Adastral Park and further travel information .
University Transport
The University runs a free direct bus from the main Waterfront campus to the DigiTech Centre in the morning and a return service from DigiTech to the Warterfront campus in the afternoon after teaching is finished.
Public Transport There is a regular bus service (67 or H66) which travels between Ipswich Railway station and Adastral Park.
See Suffolk on Board for a bus timetable .
Car Parking There is ample, free parking on site at Adastral Park.
All cars must be registered and display permit whilst parking on site.
If using a sat nav, enter the postcode IP5 3RE and follow the signs for reception.
There are multiple EV charging points on site.
Information about parking permits will be issued to students during their Induction.
Cycle There are several cycle routes leading to Adastral Park, CycleStreets.net can provide detailed routes .
There are covered cycle stores and showers.
The Park has a number of communal and shared facilities which are open to all Adastral Park residents, including University of Suffolk students.
Students will be issued with an access card for Adastral Park during their induction.
Facilities include:
For full information visit the Adastral Park Amenities webpage

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/accommodation/london-centre-accommodation:
London offers a wide variety of accommodation options to suit different needs and budgets, so take your time to find the place that’s just right for you.
Thanks to the city’s excellent transport links , you’ll have access to a broad area across Greater London and beyond in your search for the perfect home.
While there isn’t on-campus accommodation at the London Centre, we’ve provided a list of student accommodation providers below to help you get started.
Although we don't recommend specific providers, this list is a great starting point for exploring your options.
Accommodation Advice
Wherever you chose to live whilst you study in London, you may find the information below very useful when renting accommodation.
The information below includes an overview of tenancy agreements and deposits.
We recommend you read through all the linked pages, whether you are renting accommodation for the first time or are familiar with the process, before signing any tenancy agreements.
As London Centre students you can also access Suffolk Studentpad for more useful housing advice and renter checklists in the Housing Advice section.
Unfortunately, the University does not have recommended accommodation in London so you will not be able to use the site to find accommodation for your stay.
Top Tips
Financial Advice
Guarantor Advice
Tenancy Takeovers
FIND OUT MORE ABOUT UNIKITOUT
You can find additional advice from the following websites:

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/news/2023/inspire-partnership-sports-facilities-get-the-go-ahead:
The forthcoming development is a result of a partnership between the University of Suffolk and the leading youth charity, Inspire, which will see new facilities added to Inspire’s Ipswich site, the former home of Holywells High School.
Shown in the 3D renders, plans include an enclosed full-size grass pitch to BUCS (British Universities & Colleges Sport) standards with security fencing and floodlighting, and an all-weather pitch.
Both organisations hope that the facilities will enable students and the wider community to participate in a variety of sports and recreation, which will support overall health and wellbeing.
The application also proposes additional car parking space on the existing Lindbergh Community Centre site occupied by the charity.
Terry Baxter, CEO of Inspire, said: “We believe that sports and physical activity play a pivotal role in enhancing health and wellbeing.
We are excited for this partnership to bring the local community closer together and to support young people’s health and wellbeing.”
Tim Greenacre, University of Suffolk's Chief Operating Officer, said: “Our partnership with Inspire and the development of new sports pitches is part of our long term vision for improving sport and wellbeing facilities for our students.
The new sports facilities will not only be welcomed by our students but will also be an asset for the local community.”
Katie Pickard, President (Activities and Wellbeing) University of Suffolk Students’ Union, said:
“We are really excited about the progress being made on improving sports facilities for students.
We know that access to sport plays a huge role both in improving wellbeing and providing an opportunity to socialise with other people.”
Ipswich borough Councillor, Ruman Muhith, said: “These modern amenities will have a positive impact on nurturing talent, promoting healthy lifestyles, and fostering a strong sense of unity among the local community and students at the University.
I am absolutely delighted by the fantastic news.”

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/your-campus/partner-colleges/east-coast-college:
Based in the lively coastal towns of Great Yarmouth and Lowestoft, the University of Suffolk at East Coast College offers a growing range of Foundation and Honours degrees, the majority of which are led by lecturers who are active in their specialist fields with established, close links to employers and the local community.
Both campuses have undergone recent, substantial capital investment and boast modern study and leisure facilities, industry standard equipment and dedicated undergraduate resources.
The towns are home to established oil, gas and energy sectors.
The College also boasts an internationally renowned centre of excellence in engineering, offshore and related maritime safety and logistics.
Students at the University of Suffolk at East Coast College benefit from smaller class sizes and unrivalled access to tutors and support.
National Student Survey results for overall satisfaction are consistently above the national average for all Higher Educations universities and colleges.
Coming in 2025, The Place is set to be a new hub for the University of Suffolk at our East Coast College campus in Great Yarmouth.
The £17 million university centre, library and learning centre will upskill the local community in Great Yarmouth and beyond.
University of Suffolk at East Coast College covers two separate locations — Great Yarmouth and Lowestoft.
Please make sure you check the location you are looking to visit.
East Coast College, Suffolk Road, Great Yarmouth, Norfolk, NR31 0ED Phone: +44 (0)1493 655261 Email: HE@eastcoast.ac.uk
East Coast College, St Peter's Street, Lowestoft, Suffolk, NR32 2NB Phone: +44 (0)800 854695 Email: HE@eastcoast.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/your-campus/partner-colleges/suffolk-new-college:
Suffolk New College is situated in the Education Quarter of Ipswich.
Set within a modern £70m building, which opened in 2009, the College is situated a few minutes walk from the main University of Suffolk, Waterfront campus.
It is close to the town centre, the railway station and is on several major bus routes.
The Civil Engineering programme is accredited through the Joint Board of Moderators , which is formed by four professional bodies:
Details of what accredited status this provides is included on the course pages for the FdSc Civil Engineering , BSc (Hons) Civil Engineering (Progression Route) and BSc (Hons) Civil Engineering [degree apprenticeship] .
Suffolk New College offers excellent facilities including a laboratory fitted with new equipment for concrete testing, tensile analysis and assessing the engineering properties of soil.
The University of Suffolk at Suffolk New College offer four routes in the Initial Teacher Training (ITT) programme.
We offer the Certificate in Education (Lifelong Learning Sector) (CertEd) and the Professional Graduate Certificate in Education in the Lifelong Learning Sector (PGCE) as either a one year full-time or two years part-time course.
These qualifications are aimed at both those who wish to learn to teach and those who are already teaching, tutoring or training in community and adult education, work-based provision, further education, offender education and the voluntary sector.
You can find out more on the PGCE/CertEd course page .
If you would like to apply for one of the Initial Teacher Training programmes you will need to complete the direct application form .

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/student-life/student-life-privacy-notice:
Please read our privacy notice, which outlines how we collect and use your information.
The purpose of this notice is to explain how we collect and use your personal data.
Throughout this Notice, "we", "our" and "us" refers to the services within the Student Life Department, Ipswich.
"you" and “your” refers to those expressing an interest in accessing these services and those accessing and using services.
Student Life include information, advice and guidance services as well as therapeutic support such as counselling, and practical assistance such as non-medical help (NMH).
The service areas include:
The University processes personal data in accordance with our obligations under the UK General Data Protection Regulations (‘GDPR’).
This notice is written to comply with requirements under GDPR (as they are known).
We will review and update this notice annually and publish any revisions via the website.
1.
Applicants, students and alumni
All teams within Student Life obtain and process data about service users.
Where possible data is obtained from the central student information system, to avoid requesting information that may have been already provided.
We will only use your personal information for the purposes we collect it.
The purposes for processing data are for example:
We may collect use and store the following personal data;
On occasions and with your consent we may also collect, store and use the following "special categories" of more sensitive personal data, which require a higher level of protection:
2.
Research
On occasion, we carry out research on students and/or alumni in key industries or roles, to gain a greater understanding of you and your interests.
This is typically to inform and shape the services we deliver and may include to seek support for the University in the form of case studies, visits and talks to current students or departments.
This enables us to make our communications and services more relevant, and to offer a more tailored package of engagement or support.
This research only ever uses information freely available in the public domain and is carried out internally by University employees.
In rare and exceptional circumstances we may employ another company to undertake this research for us (see below, Sharing your Information).
If, on the basis of this research, we believe there to be genuine and legitimate mutual interest in discussing a particular development or area of work at the University, then we may attempt to contact you regarding it, whether or not you have consented to receiving communications from us.
You will always have the opportunity to decline further contact.
We may anonymise some personal data, for example survey results.
In this case, it can no longer be associated with, or used to identify, an individual.
3.
Organisations and External Parties
Data is obtained as a result of the personal relationship you have with Student Life teams, and includes business cards, emails, telephone correspondence, event booking or attendance, collaborative working with other teams within the University, or web based queries received (including via social media).
We will normally collect or process personal sensitive information only (i) where we need the personal information to perform a contract with you, or (ii) where the processing is in our legitimate interests and not overridden by your rights or (iii) where we have your consent to do so.
In some cases, we may also have a legal obligation to collect and process personal information.
It is recognised that some of the grounds outlined here will overlap and Student Life could rely on multiple grounds to justify its lawful processing.
If we ask you to provide personal information to comply with a legal requirement or to perform a contract with you, we will make this clear at the relevant time and advise you whether the provision of your personal information is mandatory or not (as well as the possible consequences if you do not provide your information).
Data sharing
Staff within the University
Student Life staff may inform relevant staff as appropriate (e.g.
your Tutor / Personal Tutor and/or Course Administrator), that you are accessing services without giving further details of your circumstances.
This is to help coordinate with your programme of study and to enhance your overall University experience, but you can ask that this information is not shared.
There may be instances where it could benefit you to share more detailed information with appropriate staff within the University.
If this is thought to be necessary, we would discuss with you what was felt appropriate to share and seek your agreement in advance.
Information would only ever be shared with legitimate reason and on justifiable grounds.
Staff routinely work with external professionals, such as local NHS healthcare providers and the police.
The same general principles of sharing information apply; students will be asked in advance to provide their agreement for us to discuss their situation with external professionals.
External Third Parties
The UK General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and University policy prohibit disclosure of an individual’s information to a third party, unless there is a legal basis to do so.
This means that staff members cannot give information about a student currently studying at the University to a third party.
This includes parents, other family members and friends, for example.
If a parent, guardian or carer makes contact with any University staff member to enquire about you, staff will not be able to divulge any details concerning you or your engagement at the university, such as your academic progress, wellbeing or attendance, for example.
For this reason, we encourage parents and students to keep in regular contact with each other.
In general, students are expected to act on their own behalf when dealing with offices and departments within the University, and when requesting services.
Parents, guardians or other individuals will not normally be allowed to make requests, or otherwise act on behalf of the student.
We ask students to opt-in and provide the university with the contact details for a designated, trusted individual in situations where we may have serious or grave concerns about your vital interests, wellbeing or mental health.
The UK General Data Protection Regulation does permit the University to disclose information in certain exceptional circumstances; these are usually life or death situations.
The University’s ‘opt-in’ scheme enables you to identify either an ‘emergency’ or ‘wellbeing’ contact when there are serious concerns about your wellbeing.
If you are presenting as at grave risk, the routine need to obtain consent before disclosing data may be waived and we will contact your Wellbeing Contact with some caveats:
If you are believed to be in grave danger, missing and/or unresponsive or are believed to lack capacity; we are able to use the Wellbeing Contact even if you are unable to give permission.
The decision to contact a Wellbeing Contact will be taken by two managers and will be based on the agreement that communication with the nominated contact is necessary in order to protect yours or others vital interests.
These circumstances are very rare, but when they occur the most common causes of this necessary communication are where a student has been reported missing and is believed to be at risk or where a student is unresponsive and has been taken by emergency transportation to hospital.
Information about the opt-in scheme can be found on our website – Student wellbeing and communication with families.
Data Sharing with third party organisations
The University works with third-party services to assist in the delivery of services to you to fulfil our educational mission.
We carefully select third parties to work with and undertake due diligence to check that they will process your data for the specified purposes and we expect that they treat it in accordance with UK GDPR and the law.
Examples of third-party services we enlist include:
We have no control over, and are not responsible for, the privacy policies and practices of other third parties.
As such, when using these services, you will be prompted to agree to their Privacy Policy and to give consent to share your information.
The University will act as a Data Controller for the personal data third-party services share with us.
The 24/7 counselling helpline provided by Health Assured support line is a separate service offered to students of the University of Suffolk.
Health Assured provides a confidential service and the information you discuss with their helpline support workers is not routinely provided to the University unless your health, wellbeing or welfare is judged to be at imminent risk.
In these circumstances and where the support worker thinks you need additional support, they will seek your consent to share your name and information about their concerns with the Disability and Wellbeing team so that they can provide you with further help.
In some circumstances where you are not able to provide consent or where you refuse consent, Health Assured may still decide to share relevant information with the University where it is necessary to protect your or another person’s vital interests.
This approach is consistent with the University’s Data Management Policy which you signed up to at registration.
Signposting to other websites and/or services
Whilst we endeavour to ensure the content and relevance of external websites is correct, we cannot be held responsible for the privacy policies of other sites.
Please do not assume that external websites follow our Privacy Notice.
Exemptions to GDPR obligations when data sharing
On rare occasions, we may need to share your data without your knowledge or consent, for other reasons that are exempt from the GDPR’s transparency obligations.
We will always endeavour to balance respect for your individual rights and take proportionate measures:
Under UK GDPR, you have the right to:
Further information on the above rights .
You may also contact the institutional Data Protection Officer for further information dataprotection@uos.ac.uk
You have the right to complain.
A complaint can be raised through the University’s Complaints Procedure, which can be found at ‘Policies and Guides’
Alternatively, you have the right to complain to the Information Commissioner's Officer about the way in which we process your personal data.
You have the right to privacy of personal and sensitive data.
Access to all user data within the University whether on paper, computer files or other storage, is strictly controlled.
All staff within Student Life regard personal data as confidential and will only access the data on a need to know basis as required in order to provide a professional service.
Within Student Life access to data is restricted on the basis of an individual member of staff's roles and responsibilities.
Ordinarily staff will only be able to access the data within the team(s) they work in and only the data that is necessary for them to fulfil their role effectively.
Information will be treated confidentially, except where there is a legal basis for sharing information.
We will only retain your personal information for as long as necessary to fulfil the purposes we collected it for, including for the purposes of satisfying any legal, accounting, or reporting requirements.
To determine the appropriate retention period for personal data, we consider the amount, nature, and sensitivity of the personal data, the potential risk of harm from unauthorised use or disclosure of your personal data, the purposes for which we process your personal data and whether we can achieve those purposes through other means, and the applicable legal requirements.
In some circumstances we may anonymise your personal information so that it can no longer be associated with you, in which case we may use such information without further notice to you.
Once you are no longer a student we will retain or securely destroy your personal information in accordance with our Data Retention Schedule.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/student-life/safeguarding:
Welcome to the University of Suffolk and information on our Safeguarding policies, process and practice.
Students, Staff, Visitors and Members of the Public can raise a Safeguarding concern or enquiry to a Designated Safeguarding Officers by contacting Safeguarding in Minerva (students and staff), Safeguarding@uos.ac.uk (external professionals and members of the public) or telephone 01473 338400 and select option 'safeguarding'.
This includes but is not limited to concerns regarding:
For students' further information on Safeguarding and how to report concerns and access support to University Specialist Services such as Safeguarding, Counselling, Mental Health, Wellbeing and Disability Teams can be found via the Student Hub .
Students can also access free 24/7 support via the Student Assistance Programme.
For staff this information can be found via The Hub.
Please find information and contact details for Safeguarding Officers at our partner campuses.
University of Suffolk at Suffolk New College The Safeguarding Team can be contacted on +44 (0)1473 382738 or support@suffolk.ac.uk
Safeguarding Lead: Greer Hill Email greerhill@suffolk.ac.uk
University of Suffolk at East Coast College The Safeguarding Team can be contacted safeguarding@eastcoast.ac.uk .
Jess Leggett Lowestoft campus Phone +44 (0)7747442823
Maria Watson Great Yarmouth campus Phone +44(0)7795306828
University of Suffolk at West Suffolk College Safeguarding Lead: Claire Battey Email claire.battery@wsc.ac.uk
University of Suffolk at London Centre
The safeguarding team can be contacted at: safeguarding@uos.ac.uk or telephone 01473 338400 and select option 'safeguarding'
Global Banking School (GBS) Birmingham Campus Prevent and Safeguarding Officer: Ernest Asamoah Email easamoah@globalbanking.ac.uk
Manchester Campus Prevent and Safeguarding Officer: Dinesh Kumar Saraswat Email dsaraswat@globalbanking.ac.uk
Greenford Campus Prevent and Safeguarding Officer: Thuvaraka Jennifer Sivanathan Email tsivanathan@globalbanking.ac.uk
Republic Campus Prevent and Safeguarding Officer: Safina Lakha Email slakha@globalbanking.ac.uk
Bow Road Campus, Prevent and Safeguarding Officer: Diana Shatokhina Email dshatokhina@globalbanking.ac.uk
London School of Commerce (LSC) Prevent and Safeguarding Officers: David Silbergh Email david.silbergh@lsclondon.co.uk
Rabindra Shrestha Email rabindra.shrestha@lsclondon.co.uk
LD Training Designated Safeguarding Officer: Michelle Brooks Email mbrooks@ldtraining.ac.uk
Hanbridge Institute Designated Safeguarding Officer: Nicole Lim Email nicolelim@hanbridge.edu.sg
Teacher Training Partners North Essex Teacher Training Dr Sarah Alix Email sarah.alix@nett.org.uk
Suffolk & Norfolk SCITT Anna Richards Email anna.richards@suffolk.gov.uk Phone +44 (0)1473 265081
BEC Teacher Training Clare Smith Email clare@billericayscitt.com Phone +44 (0)1268 477611
Inspiration Trust Iain Mackintosh Email iainmackintosh@inspirationtrust.org Phone +44 (0)1603 331380
The University is an adult environment; students are expected to act as adults and to assume an adult level of responsibility.
Students are expected to have the necessary skills to study independently alongside people from a wide variety of ages and backgrounds.
Places are offered on the understanding that, where relevant, students will be able to adapt to living away from home and manage the practicalities that this involves.
The University treats all students as independent, mature individuals and students who are under the age of 18 years will be treated in the same way.
The usual personal and academic support arrangements will apply to students who are under 18 years.
This will normally include:
However, the University acknowledges that anyone under the age of 18 is legally a child and recognises that students under the age of 18 may therefore have different needs in relation to their support and wellbeing.
Admission of such applicants therefore requires additional consideration in order that the University can ensure that it fulfils its obligations and meets any additional needs in relation to support and wellbeing.
A parent/guardian is to sign a consent form before an applicant is offered a place on a programme of study.
Should a parent or guardian not wish to sign the agreement, the University reserves the right not to process the application further.
Where any applicant does not have a parent or guardian they could contact Admissions for guidance on arranging a formal guardian.
The University is not able to take on the rights, responsibilities and authority that parents have in relation to a child and it will not act in loco parentis in relation to students who are under the age of 18 years.
The parent or guardian is required to accept this and acknowledge the other possible conditions and arrangements set out below - by signing the consent form before a student may be admitted to the University.
International students who are under the age of 18 (and British students whose parents live overseas) are required to appoint a guardian within the UK, accessible to the University and the student should the need arise.
Where international students do not have appropriate contacts in the UK to fulfil this role, guardianships accredited by AEGIS can be arranged.
More information is available for parents and families .
Advice and student responsibilities:
The University aligns to the IHRA working definition of antisemitism as described in the IHRA policy briefing (March 2020).
“Antisemitism is a certain perception of Jews, which may be expressed as hatred toward Jews.
Rhetorical and physical manifestations of antisemitism are directed toward Jewish or non-Jewish individuals and/or their property, toward Jewish community institutions and religious facilities.”
The IHRA working definition is underpinned by eleven contemporary examples of antisemitism in public life, the media, schools, the workplace, and in the religious sphere.
For more information, you may like to refer to the IHRA Policy Briefing (March 2020).
Examples include, but are not limited to:
Expectations on staff and student conduct are woven through university policies, procedures and our University Charter.
Policies and procedures outlined in the section above, give advice on how concerns can be raised or referred.
Last updated: July 2025
The University of Suffolk is clear in its intentions and duties that staff, students and visitors should have the right to study and work in an environment that is free from harassment (1) and sexual misconduct (2).
This includes both the physical and online environments that encompass University and partners institutions.
For transparency and full compliance with OfS E6 conditions of registration, this statement seeks to provide staff, students and visitors with a single comprehensive source of information on how the university seeks to make a credible difference to protect students and tackle incidents of harassment and sexual misconduct.
This information is published and accessible here on the University website allowing for users to clearly identify the version history of all related documents and policies and any changes made to their content.
The University of Suffolk complies with these duties in a manner which is consistent with the freedom of speech principles, Equality Act 2010 or any other legal requirement.
Footnote
(1) Harassment is defined in section 26 of the Equality Act 2010 and section 1 of the Protection from Harassment Act 1997 (in its entirety, and as interpretated by section 7 of the Act) as relates to any behaviour or conduct that is considered unwanted (and unacceptable) to the recipient (and by any reasonable person) which:
(2) Sexual misconduct is defined as any unwanted or attempted unwanted conduct of a sexual This includes, but is not limited to:
Where conduct does not fall clearly within the examples in the paragraph above, that conduct may still amount to sexual misconduct under this definition where it is unwanted or attempted unwanted conduct of a sexual nature.
The definition therefore includes the most serious behaviour of sexual assault and rape, but this is not intended to be an exhaustive list.
The University of Suffolk takes seriously any allegations pertaining to the ‘abuse of power’ whereby a staff member exploits a position of power or trust in relation to a student to apply pressure in a way which:
Staff are expected to declare any personal relationship as outlined within the Relationships at Work Policy or partner equivalent policy.
By way of summary the following statements set out University of Suffolk’s position concerning relationships between staff and students:
Students, staff and other individuals are able to report behaviour that may amount to harassment and/or sexual misconduct to University Safeguarding Officers at their respective campus.
Contact details are published on the university website Safeguarding .
The University distinguishes between a disclosure , where a student tells the university that something has happened to them or someone else, and a report , where a student makes a formal report to a university policy and procedure.
Disclosures may relate to any event, including those that do not involve another University student or staff member.
A disclosure may lead to a disciplinary referral, however, disclosing students may purely be seeking support or information.
It should also be noted that, since disclosures can be about historical events or those involving people from outside the University environment, disciplinary action is not always applicable.
All information received or obtained in connection with incidents of harassment and/or sexual misconduct will be handled sensitively and used fairly, with the reporting party informed of their options to progress with any of the following:
When a formal complaint is made via the University Complaints procedure, the University of Suffolk ensures that any investigations undertaken, and decisions made in respect of incidents of harassment and/or sexual misconduct are credible, fair and otherwise reflect established principles of natural justice.
Conduct may be harassment or bullying and/or sexual misconduct whether or not the person behaving in that way intends to offend.
Different people find different things acceptable.
Everyone has the right to decide what reasonable behaviour is acceptable to them and to have their feelings respected by others.
The perception of the person who is at the receiving end of the conduct should be considered objectively alongside the other circumstances of the case; and whether it is reasonable for the conduct to have had that effect.
Complaints against other students may be investigated under the Student Discipline Procedure and complaints made against staff may be investigated under the Staff Discipline Procedure.
The University of Suffolk prohibits the use of non-disclosure agreements (NDAs) or other forms of written contracts to prevent a student from disclosing information about harassment or sexual misconduct.
Students, staff and visitors are encouraged to report incidents of harassment and sexual misconduct as set out in the policies below.
Including but not limited to an investigatory and decision-making process, appropriately trained staff are equipped with the required knowledge and skills to support any student, who:
Pastoral support will be identified and allocated to reporting, responding or witness students.
Support may include providing information on institutional policies, the allocation of a single point of contact, identification of adjustments or supportive arrangements.
Arrangements may include, but are not limited to, risk assessment and safety planning to establish mitigating or precautionary measures such as non-contact arrangements between students; directing students to mental health or welfare support; providing guidance on options for leave of absence; moving students into alternative accommodation; meeting students 1:1 to discuss behaviour concerns.
Other support may include the provision, referral or signposting to other services, such as specialist agency support, therapeutic or wellbeing support.
The Safeguarding Officer receiving the disclosure or report should establish, with the student’s consent, their support needs and facilitate the arrangement of support.
The University have trained staff who also act as a Sexual Violence Liaison Officers (SVLO).
The role of an SVLO is intended to be a supportive one.
Whether the incident happened sometime ago, recently or you're not sure what happened, please do reach out.
You may want to consider your options such as:
To contact an SVLO please contact Safeguarding via Minerva or telephone 01473 338400 and select the safeguarding option.
All students will receive key information as part of their induction.
Training includes but is not limited to ensuring that students understand:
In addition, the University of Suffolk is committed to providing staff with up-to-date briefing or training to enhance their understanding, knowledge and skills of:
Staff who are required to undertake investigations or make decisions in relation to incidents of harassment and/or sexual misconduct are appropriately trained.
Policies that align with the statement of intent are as follows:
Students
Staff
Students, staff and visitors
Dignity at Study Policy
Bullying, Harassment and Sexual Harassment Policy
Safeguarding Policy and Code of Conduct
Student Discipline Policy
Personal Relationships at Work Policy
Domestic Abuse Policy
Students Complaints Procedure
Disciplinary Policy
Freedom of Speech COP and Policy
The University seeks to operate with fairness and transparency and will collect non-identifiable annual data on its cases including data sets for specific types of reports, analysis and evaluation.
This data will support the University to identify actions and forward planning to make a significant and credible difference to tackling harassment and sexual misconduct.
The University of Suffolk Board has ultimate responsibility in ensuring that the University discharges its duties in relation to harassment and sexual misconduct.
The University Senate and Safeguarding Committee maintain oversight of compliance and assist in monitoring progress against action plans and the compliance framework.
The information in this statement is regularly reviewed for alignment with the requirements set by the Office for Students and seeks to:
Amy is Head of Student Support and Welfare.
Julie Burton is the Chief People Officer for the University of Suffolk.
Jo joined the University during its inception in 2007, now works as Deputy Director of People & OD

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/student-life/disability--wellbeing/student-wellbeing-and-communication-with-families:
See our information on how we aim to work with identified third parties to support student wellbeing.
UK law (the General Data Protection Regulation) and University policy prohibit the disclosure of an individual’s information to a third party.
This means that staff members are unable to give any information about a student currently studying at the University to a third party.
All Universities in the UK follow similar guidelines and are bound by the same legislation.
This means that if you make contact with any member of the University and ask about your child or partner, staff will not be able to divulge any details concerning their academic progress, their wellbeing or their attendance.
We realise that this can sometimes be frustrating, but hope you appreciate the reasons for this.
The relationship is one between the University and student and as such, it is important to build relationships based on trust.
Parents or partners will not normally be allowed to make requests, or otherwise act on behalf of a student.
In certain exceptional circumstances and with the student’s written consent, we may communicate with a third party, if the University deems it is in the interests of the student concerned.
For instance, we understand that occasionally it may be helpful to the student to be able to contact a trusted individual for example where a pre-existing medical condition reoccurs to seek advice on past treatment might be helpful in an emergency situation.
If we do this, the student will have to sign a statement of permission, which will allow us to discuss one particular, clearly outlined, issue with a third party over a very limited period of time.
The permission form will be applicable only to that one instance and therefore cannot be reused at a later date.
This discussion will take place with the student present.
We will not discuss a student with a third party behind their back, because this will not help the student’s development, and undermines the relationship between student and University.
There may be circumstances when you may have concerns about a student - perhaps you have not heard from them for a while or maybe you are concerned over a serious (but not vital) medical condition they have or possibly you have received a worrying message about them in some way.
In such cases if you leave contact details or correspondence with us, assuming the individual is a student at the University, we will pass them on and encourage the student to make contact.
If you know their address, are seriously concerned and think that they might be at immediate risk of harm to themselves or to others you could also telephone the Police or local Safeguarding services as appropriate.
If the individual is not a student at the University the details will be destroyed.
The University implements an ‘opt in’ scheme, where we ask students to provide at least one emergency contact and indicate where a contact is a preferred ‘Wellbeing Contact’.
It is anticipated that the University will use an emergency contact in the majority of cases.
However, a Wellbeing Contact will be informed where serious concerns are presented for a student’s health, mental health or capacity.
See the next accordion for more information about how we would use a 'wellbeing contact'.
We do not normally contact anyone else if the student is responsive and receiving assistance from University staff (e.g.
Advisers or Counsellors), or external agencies (e.g.
medical professionals, private counselling).
If a student is the subject of Disciplinary procedures, even if the Police are involved, parents or emergency contacts (including those indicated as a wellbeing contact) will not necessarily be contacted.
The student is an adult and responsible for their own actions and the repercussions from those actions.
The General Data Protection Regulation does permit the University to disclose information in certain exceptional circumstances; these are usually life or death situations.
In such cases, the routine need to obtain consent before disclosing personal data may be waived, and therefore, if a student is in immediate, grave risk we may contact the Wellbeing Contact with some caveats:
The decision to contact a Wellbeing Contact will be taken by two University managers and will be based on the agreement that communication with the nominated contact is necessary in order to protect the vital interests of the student.
These circumstances are very rare, but when they occur the most common causes of this necessary communication are where a student has been reported missing and is believed to be at risk; where a student is unresponsive and has been taken by emergency transportation to hospital; where a student is mentally incapacitated and at extreme risk; or in the event of a student’s death.
The University has a range of support services available to students and additional measures to support students who are between 16 years and 18 years old at the start of their programme.
Noting that the University does not usually accept students who will 16 years or under onto a University programme.
The University is an adult environment and does not have loco parentis responsibility for students between 16-18 years.
Many University staff will not normally be required to have a disclosure and barring check.
Therefore it is important that as a parent or guardian you feel confident that the student will be sufficiently able to cope with the demands of independent living, University life and academic study.
During the application and admissions process, where an applicant will be under the age of 18 at the start of their chosen course, the University will require the applicant’s parent/guardian to sign the University’s Consent Form and return it to the Admissions Office as confirmation that they, the parent/guardian, have read and understood the nature of the obligations which the University owes to its students under the age of 18 and the extent of the services and facilities available to them.
No applicant under the age of 18 will be admitted by the University unless and until the Consent Form has been signed and returned to the Admissions Office.
Where the parents/guardians of an applicant under the age of 18 are not resident in the UK, the University requires that a UK-based guardian is appointed, and the guardian’s details are provided in writing to the University as a condition of admission.
One option will be to use a Guardianship agency to make this arrangement.
Where own arrangements are made with extended family members this may constitute 'private fostering' and the University may be required to share this information with the Local Authority.
Under the guidance produced by the Home Office, applicants can apply for a UKVI Student Visa to study in the UK if they are 16 years old or older.
This would mean that if an international applicant is 15 years or younger when studying, the University would be unable to support their application to study.
The University must comply with regulations set by the UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI).
As such, parents/guardians must ensure that suitable care arrangements are in place for a child under the age of 18 who will study in the UK and be sponsored by the University under its Student Visa licence.
A student aged 16 or 17 has the legal right to live independently in the UK and may make their own accommodation arrangements.
However, when a 16 or 17 year old applies for a visa under the (general UKVI Student Visa route), they must have their parents’ or a legal guardian’s permission both to travel to the UK and live independently.
If one parent or legal guardian has legal custody of or sole responsibility for the applicant, this must be confirmed on the Consent Form and the form signed by that parent or legal guardian.
If not, then both parents or legal guardians must give their consent and the form must be signed by both of them.
Minors over 16 years of age have the same rights under the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) as those over 18.
This means that the University will not disclose any information about such applicants and/or students without their specific consent.
However, if the applicant/student fails to pay any sums agreed on contract then it might be necessary to disclose this to any guarantor and possibly to a debt collection agency.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/student-life/disability--wellbeing/disability-and-learning-difficulty-support:
This includes specific learning differences, sensory impairment, long-term medical conditions and/or mental ill health.
Staff are available throughout the year and will be happy to discuss your support needs.
We aim to offer relevant, tailored support and advice which will help you to achieve your potential.
We recommend that you contact Student Services as soon as possible to make an appointment, where you can discuss support arrangements with an adviser.
With your input, support arrangements are identified and put in place using a Reasonable Adjustment Agreement (RAA).
Find more detailed information about reasonable adjustments , or download the Reasonable Adjustments for Students Code of Practice .
For the University of Suffolk (Ipswich Campus), appointments can be scheduled to be face to face, virtual or by telephone.
To book an appointment call 01473 338833 or email student support.
The University of Suffolk is committed to inclusive learning and teaching and encourages all students who might need additional support because of a disability to contact studentsupport@uos.ac.uk .
We have a Disability Statement which can also be sent to you on request or viewed online .
We recommend that you inform student services of any specific requirements on application and/or enrolment so that we can ensure support is in place and ready for the start of your course.
In addition to this, we understand that personal circumstances may change during your time at university.
If this happens you can approach Student Services to discuss how a recent diagnosis or short-term illness may be affecting your studies.
We work with each individual to discuss, advise and identify the best support package to help people succeed in their studies.
Find out how to contact the support services at our other campus locations:
Appointments can be booked via email SENDSupport@eastcoast.ac.uk .
These are flexible around the student and are offered to be face-to-face, virtual or a phone call.
The designated safeguarding leads are: Maria Watson Great Yarmouth Campus Phone +44 (0)7795 306828
Jess Leggett Lowestoft Campus Phone +44 (0)7747 442823
To request an appointment, email allenquiries@lsclondon.co.uk.
The lead contact for disability and wellbeing is: Rabindra Shrestha Email rabindra.shrestha@lsclondon.co.uk
The designated safeguarding lead is: David Silbergh Email david.silbergh@lsclondon.co.uk
To book student appointments, email welfare@globalbanking.ac.uk or visit the welfare office on campus.
The lead contact for disability and wellbeing, and safeguarding is: Loretta Miller Email lmiller@globalbanking.ac.uk .
To book an appointment, email: wellbeing@ldtraining.ac.uk
Student Experience and Engagement Manager: Luminita Paraschiv lparaschiv@ldtraining.ac.uk
Wellbeing & Disability Officer: Kamila Talpakova ktalpakova@ldtraining.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/student-life/disability--wellbeing/disabled-students-allowances:
Disabled Students' Allowances (DSA) is an additional source of funding to help with costs incurred when accessing study, for example, 1-1 specialist study skills tuition.
Home students (full / part-time and certain postgraduate) who can show that they have a disability, mental health condition or specific learning difficulty that affects their ability to study may be eligible for allowances.
You may be eligible to apply for DSA if you have a disability , including:
University of Suffolk, Ipswich Email studentservices@uos.ac.uk Phone +44 (0)1473 338833
University of Suffolk at Suffolk New College Email christiethompson@suffolk.ac.uk Phone +44 (0)1473 382738
University of Suffolk at East Coast College Email sendofficers@eastcoast.ac.uk
University of Suffolk at London School of Commerce Email rabindra.shreshta@lsclondon.co.uk
University of Suffolk at Global Banking School Email welfare@globalbanking.ac.uk
Students who are eligible for an NHS bursary (if your course started before 31 July 2017) need to apply via your BOSS account (with the exception of Social Work students).
See the NHS bursary website for more information and to apply.
All other students, including Social Work students, must apply to Student Finance for DSA.
See the websites below for more information and to apply:
Student Finance England
Student Finance Northern Ireland
Student Finance Wales
Students Awards Agency (Scotland)
When you apply you will need to provide evidence of your disability.
This should be a medical report, doctors letter or an independent educational psychologists or specialist teachers assessment.
You will receive a letter from your funding body letting you know whether you are eligible for DSA.
If you are eligible you will be asked to book a 'Needs Assessment'.
During your Needs Assessment, you will talk about your individual support needs and the support that can be offered to help you.
Following your Needs Assessment you will receive a report detailing the recommendations that have been made to support you.
If you gave your consent, Student Life will also receive a copy of this.
When we receive your report we will invite you to meet with us to make sure that you are happy with the arrangements and to ensure that they are in place.
We will update your Reasonable Adjustment agreement to reflect the recommendations in your report and send this to your tutors (with your consent) so that they can support you.
There is more information about DSA at direct.gov.uk/dsas and yourdsa.com.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/student-life/disability--wellbeing/disability-support-for-apprentices:
The University offers as standard a range of support for any student, such as:
The University can provide apprentices with disabilities support and reasonable adjustments, which could include:
The Disabled Student Commission (DSC) has produced
We encourage any offer holder to speak with a Disability Adviser as soon as possible.
Advisers will work with you to identify support and reasonable adjustments for your learning.
Please note that some services are only available once you are an active student e.g.
screening and assessment for Specific Learning Difficulties and access to equipment or assistive software.
To arrange an initial review meeting and to speak with an Adviser please email studentsupport@uos.ac.uk.
If you indicate that you will require additional support, then we will contact you to request evidence, such as:
GP / consultant letter
Specific Learning Difficulties Full Diagnostic Assessment report
Information on screening or assessment for Learning Difficulties, such as Dyslexia, Dyspraxia can be found at the Specific Learning Difficulties FAQ page.
A Disability and Wellbeing Adviser or Mental Health Adviser will carry out this assessment to identify the support you need which is not already available to you via reasonable adjustments or covered by the University’s accessible and inclusive teaching and learning practices.
We will compile an Additional Learning Needs report alongside a reasonable adjustment agreement.
The ALN may make recommendations relating to any additional equipment, 1:1 support etc.
to support a claim for additional funding through the Education & Skills Funding Agency (ESFA).
Please note, this funding cannot be used to deal with everyday difficulties that are not directly associated with your apprenticeship.
As Degree Apprenticeship students are also in employment, we recommend that you apply for the Access to Work fund, to identify adjustments you require in the workplace and equipment and software to support you in your professional role.
For more information, visit gov.uk/access-to-work.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/student-life/disability--wellbeing/specific-learning-difficulties-faq:
We are committed to providing a supportive and proactive service for our students who have a Specific Learning Difference (SpLD).
A SpLD is a difference in the way we learn and process information.
Each person with a SpLD has a unique combination of strengths and challenges.
Individuals with an SpLD can have significant compensatory strengths which complement higher-level study.
Conversely, the challenges experienced may impact learning, study and engagement.
The most common Specific Learning Differences are Dyslexia, Dyspraxia and Attention Deficit Disorder/Attention Deficit (Hyperactivity) Disorder.
Sometimes, an individual’s profile of learning does not fit neatly into any of these diagnostic categories.
Also, some individuals may experience more than one SpLD.
Please get in touch with us if you either have a diagnosed SpLD, or if you think you may have a learning difference which has not yet been investigated.
More detailed information about the assessment process can be found within the drop-down menus below.
With a diagnosis of a SpLD, you can apply for the DSA (Disabled Student Allowance) Your diagnostic report is used as evidence of your learning difference.
The DSA process can be long and so, if you have your report, do not wait until you arrive at university to apply for it.
If you are diagnosed with a SpLD while at university, we can help you with your DSA application, securing your exam recommendations and additional support.
International students are not eligible for the DSA, but we can discuss further options with you.
Your evidence should be a full diagnostic report carried out by a qualified and registered Specialist Teacher/Assessor or Psychologist.
At school or college, you may have been assessed for access arrangements and given a JCQ Access Arrangement (Form 8).
While this provides useful information, universities do not accept a Form 8 as sufficient evidence of your learning difference, as it does not contain formal diagnosis.
Diagnostic reports must be in English.
All evidence written in another language must be translated by a qualified transcription service and formally authenticated as such.
If you have questions about the suitability of your evidence, please email us .
If you think you could have a specific learning difficulty we can signpost and support you with an assessment.
The process may vary depending on the campus at which you are studying.
For example, at the Ipswich campus, we use a combination of in-house assessors and external assessors.
At other campuses, they may have different arrangements.
Please contact the disability team at your campus for more information.
If you have previously received a diagnosis of an SpLD, you are encouraged to send a copy of the report to us so that we can provide advice and guidance about organising support with your studies.
If you think you may have a SpLD, but have no formal diagnosis, we can help you to arrange an appointment with one of our assessors.
For more information, please contact us at spldteam@uos.ac.uk.
Please be aware that we are unable to offer an assessment until you have enroled on the course.
If you think you may have a learning difference, please contact us so that we can arrange an assessment of your learning needs.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/student-life/disability--wellbeing/autism-support:
We recognise that the transition from college or work to university may be particularly challenging for students on the autistic spectrum.
We are here to support you through this transition, and below is some information you may find helpful.
To access support, please book an appointment with the Disability and Wellbeing Team by calling the Student Centre on 01473 338 833 or by emailing student support.
At your appointment we will:
Useful Links

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/student-life/disability--wellbeing/support-for-carers:
If you are a carer for a friend or family member, you may need extra support to help you stay on track with your studies.
This could take the form of practical support and advice such as assignment extensions, or emotional support such as counselling.
The disability and wellbeing team have good links with suffolk family carers and suffolk young adult carers.
We will be able to direct you to relevant specialist support, groups and events which may help you in your caring role.
We know that caring for a friend or family member can be extremely rewarding, however we recognise that it can also be emotionally and physically tiring, particularly if you are juggling it with other responsibilities such as work and education.
It is for this reason that we recommend you check in with a member of the wellbeing team at least once per term.
We also understand that as a carer, things can change at short notice, which may affect your attendance and study plans.
If something unexpected happens, there is an extenuating circumstances policy in place which will enable you to apply for extensions to assignment work.
Your adviser can help you make an application if needed.
If you will need to leave class at short notice or if you may arrive late due to caring responsibilities, your wellbeing adviser can help you talk to tutors about your caring role and how this may affect your studies.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/student-life/disability--wellbeing/care-leaver-support:
The University of Suffolk is committed to supporting care leavers on their journey into higher education and throughout their time at university, so that you can get the best out of your university experience and reach your full potential.
How can we support you as a University of Suffolk student?
For more information on support available to care leavers at the University of Suffolk, speak to the Student Centre – their contact details can be found on the Get in Touch page.
The University of Suffolk participates in the National Network for the Education of Care Leavers eastern region group to provide opportunities and support for care experienced and care leavers to progress to university.
We offer dedicated outreach through our Uniconnect partnership (NEACO), an annual residential programme (14-18 years) in partnership with UEA and NUA, application support and drop-in sessions for university offer holders to offer advice and support on starting university.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/student-life/disability--wellbeing/support-and-advice-for-current-students:
Below we provide information on various internal support available, and we encourage you to take up this support as and when you need it.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/chantalle-hawley:
Chantalle joined the University at its inception in 2007 and is very proud to have seen the university evolve to the University of Suffolk.
Prior to joining, she worked in various roles within education including Further Education (FE), private training provision and prisons and brings over 20 years of knowledge and experience.
Chantalle completed her Post Graduate Certificate in Careers Education, Advice, and Guidance in Higher Education (PGCEIAG) at the University of Warwick, which furthered her interest in pedagogy for employability and more recently completed her Masters in Education Studies.
Chantalle leads student services in the areas of international, faith, disability, mental health and wellbeing, counselling and student finance; as well as leading and collaborating on institutional advancements in the areas of inclusivity, equality, diversity, employability and student experience.
Chantalle is a Designated Safeguarding Officer for the Ipswich Campus.
The Department of Student Life brings together a range of services which offer integral support as well also opportunities for continuing development.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/get-in-touch/people-directory/student-life-and-registry/izabela-hutchins:
Izabela is an experienced leader in higher education, currently serving as the Head of Student Administration and Designated Safeguarding Lead at the University of Suffolk, where she manages a broad range of student support services, including the Student Centre, finance support services for students, and SpLD (Specific Learning Difficulties) support services.
Since joining the university in 2018, Izabela has led initiatives in disability services and international student support.
She is an active member of several key university committees and has successfully secured external funding to support students’ international mobility opportunities through the Erasmus and Turing programmes.
With over 20 years of experience in higher education, Izabela has held numerous roles focused on international partnerships and project management.
From managing Erasmus+ programmes to coordinating large-scale EU-funded initiatives at institutions such as the University of Essex and City University London, she has a strong track record of fostering international collaborations.
Izabela holds a Master’s in Higher and Professional Education from UCL, a Master’s in Modern European Languages from the University of Wroclaw (PL), and is an alumna of the AURORA women-only leadership programme.
A keen humanist, she studied piano and cello for nearly 12 years and speaks five languages, reflecting her diverse talents and dedication to leadership in academia.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/lauren-cracknell:
Lauren Cracknell has over 17 years experience working within Higher Education including UCL and King's College London.
She has spent 12 years developing her professional practice and expertise within learning and teaching centres.
She has led on supporting the development of staff with curriculum design, assessment and teaching and also led the services supporting the academic development and literacy of students.
She joined University of Suffolk in January 2023 to lead the Library & Learning Services.
In 2024 became the Associate Director of Student Success and in 2025, Head of Library and Student Services.
Lauren has significant experience in supporting and leading initiatives and interventions to develop world class education provision.
She has a specific interest in the function and strategic composition of Learning & Teaching Centres.
Cleaver, E.
& Cracknell, L., (May 22) Highs and lows, ebbs and flows: buckle up for the educational development rollercoaster ride, Staff and Educational Development Associations, SEDA Blog; https://thesedablog.wordpress.com/2022/05/05/highs-and-lows-ebbs-and-flows-buckle-up-for-the-educational-development-rollercoaster-ride/

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/steph-gibson:
Steph is a Learning and Teaching Librarian, and began working at the university in February 2020.
Before coming to Suffolk she spent 7 years working at the University of Essex in various library roles, gaining experience and studying for her MSc in Information and Library Studies.
She is currently responsible for collections management and information skills support in the School of Allied Health Sciences.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/rebecca-knights:
Rebecca is one of the Learning & Teaching Librarians at the University of Suffolk.
She has worked in a variety of libraries since 1996, with experience in public libraries, a music library, a special collection, and numerous academic libraries.
Rebecca was Library Manager at Shipley College, in the UNESCO World Heritage Village of Saltaire, before moving to the University of Suffolk in 2022.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/graham-martindale:
Graham has worked in teaching and education for 30 years.
After a career as an EFL teacher and examiner, including roles in Azerbaijan, Sri Lanka, and the UAE, he relocated to the UK in 2012 and gained a Masters in Information Management at the University of Sheffield.
He has worked in the HE library sector for 10 years, and came to the University of Suffolk in 2020.
He currently manages the Library service provision, as well as having responsibility for the library’s research support and for academic partners.
HEA CILIP

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/david-upson-dale:
David Upson-Dale is the Research Repository and Open Access Compliance Manager within the Department of Learning Services.
The role has developed over the last few years to meet the needs of the growing research culture at the University of Suffolk.
David has previously worked in a number of roles within learning services.
Beginning as a library assistant in 2004 Prior to joining the university David achieved a number of qualifications in graphic design and illustration including a BA (Hons) in Design Communication.
In another life he worked as a freelance illustrator and he continues to engage in personal creative projects when the mood strikes.
David's areas of experience are predominantly within research support, open access compliance, copyright guidance and systems management.
David manages the institutional research repository OARS (Open Access Repository Suffolk), offering guidance to staff around depositing of materials, advice on OA/REF requirements/compliance criteria, he corresponds with publishers to establish archiving permissions for research outputs, and supports open access funding via institutional agreements with various publishers.
David also manages the digitisation service and offers copyright guidance, performs module audits for copyright compliance, and assists students by overseeing production of accessible materials based around any reasonable adjustments in place.
David is passionate about supporting his colleagues in his role, and is excited to see the continued growth of UOS as a research focussed institution.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/get-in-touch/people-directory/learning-and-teaching/sarah-armstrong:
Sarah joined the University of Suffolk in 2022 as an Academic Skills Advisor within the Library and Learning Services team.
In this role she supports students from across the university to develop their academic writing skills and establish good study practices which they will use throughout their studies.
As a published author, Sarah appreciates the importance of clear communication, understanding the different needs of readers across various kinds of text.
She taught on humanities modules at the Open University for twenty years, working with undergraduate and postgraduate students from a wide range of backgrounds, ensuring they achieved everything they were capable of.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/dr-carmen-ortiz-granero:
Dr Carmen Ortiz is an experienced Academic English and Academic Skills teacher, who is passionate about providing students with the appropriate tools to reach their potential and succeed academically.
She has taught students from a wide range of backgrounds and levels, including Foundation Programme, undergraduate, master’s and PhD students.
Carmen holds a PhD in Applied Linguistics from Trinity College Dublin.
Her doctoral research investigated the language-related challenges experienced by international students in Irish universities and how in-sessional support can help overcome those.
She also holds a BA (Hons) in English Studies from Universidad de Castilla-La Mancha and a MSc in Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages from Queen’s University Belfast.
Carmen works with students on a one-to-one basis to deliver tailored in-course sessions and academic skills workshops.
Areas taught include academic writing, referencing and avoiding plagiarism, structure, cohesion and coherence, criticality, academic presentations, assignment planning, and English as a second language, among others.
Research interests:
Publications:

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/chrissie-da-costa:
Chrissie is an experienced educator and researcher, who is committed to dismantling the barriers to education that some students encounter.
Her approach to teaching and learning is based on the principle that  academic ability is universal.
She believes that all students can thrive with effort, encouragement and support because all students have the potential to succeed.
With a PhD in Applied Linguistics, which explored the language of higher education policies and practices in the UK, she has gained insights into how institutional culture and practices and the attitudes and dispositions of staff can affect the learning environment.
She is determined to interweave research and action for transforming HE.
She draws on her varied experience, having worked with people from diverse social, cultural and professional backgrounds - including visually challenged students, mature students, refugees, international PhD researchers, engineers, lawyers, and teachers - at undergraduate and postgraduate levels, both in India and in the UK.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/mark-illman:
I am an academic skills adviser at the university with a background in European studies, music, art, literature and language teaching (I have worked in Poland, Spain, Japan, New Zealand, and the Middle East during my teaching career).
I am available to give support with study skills, referencing and academic writing.
I have an interest in working with Specific Learning Differences and widening participation from non-traditional academic backgrounds, to encompass all users of English for Academic Purposes.
I hold an MA in Language Teaching from the University of Auckland, NZ, and a BA Honours Degree in European Literature from the University of East Anglia.
I also have a Post Graduate Certificate in Academic Practice from the University of Suffolk and a Post Graduate Certificate in Language, Literacy and Dyslexia from the University of Birmingham.
I am an HEA fellow and have Approved Practitioner Status for supporting Specific Learning Difficulties.
I have an interest in developing online learning materials and in-person coaching to support independent learning and promote inclusivity in HE.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/caroline-hawthorne:
Caroline joined the Library and Learning Services team at the University of Suffolk as an Academic Skills Advisor in 2023.
She has extensive experience of teaching English as a Foreign language in the UK and overseas and has worked in a range of educational settings including private English schools and Further Education Colleges.
More recently she has worked as an Academic Skills Tutor in a UK-based university supporting foundation, undergraduate and postgraduate students from a wide range of disciplines and backgrounds.
Caroline has a Master’s in Education and is currently doing a part-time PhD at the University of Essex.
Her research focuses on the experiences of student writers on Health and Social Care programmes and explores issues of writer identity and agency.
Caroline is a Fellow of the Higher Education Academy (HEA).
Publications: •Hawthorne, C.
and Cronin, C.
(2019) Developing academic literacy: A team teaching approach between the school of Health and Human Sciences and the Talent Development Centre’ Addressing the state of the union: Working together = learning together: University of Bristol 7—9 April 2017 (pp.
117—127).
Reading: Garnet Publishing Ltd.
•Cronin, C.
and Hawthorne, C.
(2019) ‘Poetry in motion’ a place in the classroom: Using poetry to develop writing confidence and reflective skills.
Nurse Education Today, 76, 73– 77 Conference presentations: •BALEAP Annual Conference 2016, University of Bristol (Hawthorne, C.
and Cronin, C., Developing academic literacy: a team-teaching approach with the School of Health and Human Sciences) •BALEAP PIM Conference 2018, University of Essex (Hawthorne, C and Mason, M.
Perspectives on academic writing: L1 and L2 Student experiences within healthcare and hospitality foundation degree programmes) •BALEAP Annual Conference 2019, University of Leeds (Hawthorne, C.
and Mason M.
Lecturers’ perceptions of student writers: Implications for academic literacy and EAP)
Caroline is a Fellow of the Higher Education Academy (HEA) and a member of BALEAP.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/applicant-area/uk:
Get ready to start with us at the University of Suffolk - we can't wait to welcome you!
Use this section to find out key information about what you need to do before you join us and your first weeks with us.
Starting your journey toward higher education is exciting.
Your Applicant Area is the first step on your journey.
New to higher education or not sure what to expect?
You’ll find all the information you need to navigate through your application journey with the University of Suffolk.
You can find all the information on fees and financial support available to you, whether you are a full-time or part-time, undergraduate or postgraduate, home or international student.
The University of Suffolk offers a vibrant campus life on the Ipswich waterfront, surrounded by bars, cafes, and cultural spots.
Suffolk is rich in history, with beautiful scenery, world-famous beaches, and a stunning coastline, all within easy reach of London.
Hello from the Students’ Union!
We are looking forward to welcoming you and hope you will enjoy your student experience here.
You are automatically a member of the Students’ Union, and we are here to be your voice at the University, supporting you and representing you and your needs.
We also provide the fun on campus, from events to sports and societies!
Discover your SU

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/applicant-area/international:
CAS Shield is now open for students applying for September 2025.
Once you have received an offer from the University you will receive an email invite to join CAS Shield, our self-service online portal that allows you to track the progress of your Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) application.
Please note: You have 30 days from the date of your invitation to complete your Pre-CAS Interview.
Further information can be found on our Applying for your CAS page.
Our courses are designed for employability, so you can be confident that your investment at the University of Suffolk will lead to a successful future.
You can find all the information on fees and financial support available for international students.
Make your arrival in the UK stress-free with our easy-to-follow guides.
From what to pack to what to do once you arrive, we’ve got you covered every step of the way.
At the University of Suffolk, the majority of our courses are delivered as “block and blend”; an innovative way of delivering learning and teaching, which we believe has many advantages for our students.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/accommodation/athena-hall:
Athena Hall is the on-campus halls of residence at the Ipswich campus.
Although it is built on land owned by the University of Suffolk, the building is privately owned and managed.
Athena Hall was built to accreditation standards with advice from the University of Suffolk's Accommodation Manager.
This property is available to students in any year of study but may be of particular interest to:
Athena Hall is just 300 metres from the Waterfront Building on the Ipswich Waterfront and next to the James Hehir Building.
Local shops and amenities are close by and the town centre is just a 10-minute walk away.
The main Ipswich train station is approximately a 20-minute walk.
With 590 bed spaces, Athena Hall offers a mixture of cluster flats and studio rooms.
In addition to the information below, further details including a sample tenancy agreement are available on Collegiate AC's website .
Cluster flats — between 4-7 bedroom flats with a communal kitchen/common room.
Each single occupancy bedroom is lockable and is ensuite with a lavatory, hand basin and shower cubicle.
Rooms are furnished with a ¾ sized double bed, wardrobe, chest of drawers, desk and chair, shelving units and curtains or window blind.
The kitchen contains a fridge/freezer, oven, microwave and sink, along with ample cupboard space.
There is also a breakfast bar with stools and a lounge area with sofas.
Single sex flats may be available, subject to demand.
Rooms are classified as Bronze (smallest), Silver (medium) and Gold (largest).
Studio rooms — available for one mature student or a student couple.
Furniture includes a double bed, wardrobe, desk and chair, shelving units and curtains, sofa and coffee table.
The ensuite is the same as detailed above.
The kitchenette contains a fridge with freezer compartment, microwave oven, two ring hob, sink and breakfast bar with stools.
Athena Hall also has a large common room for social events and a self-service laundry room on site.
There are no car parking facilities available at Athena Hall for residents; students requiring car parking would be advised to make their own car parking arrangements elsewhere or to consider alternative accommodation with parking facilities if they require their car to get to a placement as part of their course.
The University of Suffolk parking permit is for students (and staff) commuting in daily; students living in Athena Hall should not be parking their car in the University, the Wharf or Athena Hall car parks.
Facilities
£172.00 £168.00 £162.00
Reservation Rent (paid at time of booking) on all rooms: £100, which will be deducted from the first rental instalment.
All prices above are inclusive of utility bills, internet access and contents insurance.
Prices shown are for the 2025–2026 academic year for tenancies starting in September 2025.
For other start dates in 2024–2025 please contact Collegiate AC direct to enquire.
The first rent instalment is payable in advance of moving into the accommodation; this will likely be before you receive your first student finance payment and it is therefore advisable to save for this payment via methods other than relying on student finance.
Most students will pay termly; speak to Collegiate AC if you wish to see if you can pay monthly — charges may apply.
A sample tenancy agreement and booking terms and conditions can be found on Collegiate AC's website.
We strongly recommend you read these before committing to a tenancy agreement.
Athena Hall is managed by the management company Collegiate AC.
If you are intending to take accommodation at Athena Hall, you will be required to sign up to a tenancy agreement with Collegiate AC.
There is no legal connection with the University of Suffolk.
It is your responsibility to understand and agree/sign the tenancy agreement and to determine the suitability of the accommodation depending on your needs and your ability to pay the rent.
You should not sign a tenancy agreement with any accommodation provider until you are completely happy with your choice.
The information provided is purely for guidance.
All tenancy details should be discussed direct with the accommodation provider.
Please check the cancellation policy with Collegiate AC before committing to a room, this should advise what will happen if you book a room and wish to cancel it.
Check if you will be released from the tenancy agreement if you do not meet the conditions of your offer at the University of Suffolk; please note it might not be possible to cancel if you decide you no longer wish to live there or have secured a place at a different university.
For this reason, you are advised to only book once you are certain you have made the right choice for you.
If you are selecting the University of Suffolk as your insurance choice, you are advised not to book a room unless you decide to study here.
If you are bringing a TV set or watching TV as it is broadcast on any device include a laptop or mobile phone, you will require your own TV licence.
This includes downloading or watching BBC programmes on demand — including catch up TV — on BBC iPlayer.
For more information please see the TV Licensing website.
This property is not suitable for families with children.
Pets are not permitted in the accommodation.
Smoking is not permitted inside the accommodation.
Parking facilities are not available for residents.
Collegiate AC manages this property, independently of the University of Suffolk.
Please contact them direct for any additional information you require or questions you may have about their property or tenancy agreement.
You can also make arrangements to view the building with Collegiate AC.
To book a tenancy for a course starting in September, please see the Collegiate AC website for available options.
For courses starting at any other time of year or for tenancies starting part way through the course please call or email Collegiate AC direct to enquire.
Please make sure you read the booking terms and conditions, and sample tenancy agreement on Collegiate AC’s website carefully before you book a room.
Not sure if Athena Hall is for you?
Visit the Accommodation Advice section to learn more about the other accommodation we recommend.
Landlords/managing agents of recommended and accredited accommodation may need to confirm with the University of Suffolk your applicant/student status before offering you a tenancy, and similarly to confirm continued student status throughout the term of your tenancy agreement.
By choosing to live in this property you are agreeing to this exchange of information taking place.
By taking out a tenancy in recommended and accredited accommodation you will also be agreeing to allow the University of Suffolk to request student occupancy details from the landlords/managing agents for the purpose of producing statistical analysis reports.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/accommodation/grimwade:
Grimwade was purpose built for our students, being situated right next door to the Ipswich campus.
The building is 300 metres from the Waterfront Building, a 3-minute walk.
The town centre is approximately 10-minutes’ walk away and the train station is a 20-minute walk.
Each single occupancy bedroom has its own ensuite in the 49 bedrooms halls of residence.
The room is furnished with a small double bed, bedside cabinet, chest of drawers, wardrobe, shelving, study desk and chair, and window blind.
The ensuite includes a lavatory, sink and shower.
Each floor contains at least one communal kitchen/living area with dedicated cupboards for students and a set of cooking facilities for every five students.
Washing machines and tumble dryers are available in the kitchen/living areas.
There are no car parking facilities available at Grimwade for residents; students requiring car parking would be advised to make their own car parking arrangements elsewhere or to consider alternative accommodation with parking facilities if they require their car to get to a placement as part of their course.
The University of Suffolk parking permit is for students (and staff) commuting daily; students living in Grimwade should not be parking their car in the University, the Wharf or Athena Hall car parks.
Prices shown are for tenancies for the 2025-2026 academic year.
Bronze
44 weeks
48 weeks
51 weeks
From £144
From £140
From £134
From £6,336
From £6,720
From £6,834
Silver
From £154
From £150
From £6,776
From £7,200
From £7,344
Grimwade operates an early booking reward policy for existing students on renewal.
There is a deposit of £350 on all tenancies.
The above tenancies are aimed at September starters.
For students starting a course in January/February, or deciding to take accommodation part way through the academic year should contact hello@amigo-living.com direct to enquire further.
We strongly recommend you request and read a tenancy agreement, booking terms and conditions and cancellation policy before making a booking.
It is likely you will need to pay the deposit and sum of advanced rent before the first instalment of student finance is due to you.
We strongly recommend that students plan for this and save for their deposit/advanced rent over the months leading up to the start of the tenancy agreement.
Grimwade is managed by Amigo Living.
If you are intending to take accommodation at Grimwade, you will be required to sign up to a tenancy agreement with Amigo Living.
The information provided here is purely for guidance.
Please check the cancellation policy with Amigo Living before committing to a room, this should advise what will happen if you book a room and wish to cancel it.
Check if you will be released from the tenancy agreement if you do not meet the conditions of your offer at the University of Suffolk; please note it might not be possible to cancel if you decide you no longer wish to live there or have secured a place at a different university.
If you are selecting the University of Suffolk as your insurance choice, you are advised not to book a room unless you decide to study here.
There are no parking facilities.
This property is managed independently of the University of Suffolk.
Please contact hello@amigo-living.com direct for any additional information you require or questions you may have about their property or tenancy agreement.
You can also make arrangements to view the building with Amigo Living.
You will find their property advertised, with contact details on our accommodation portal suffolkstudentpad.co.uk .
To book a tenancy or to ask any questions about this property, please contact hello@amigo-living.com or call +44 0204 5533 658.
Please make sure you request and read the booking terms and conditions, and sample tenancy agreement carefully before you book a room.
Not sure if Grimwade is for you?
Visit the Accommodation pages to learn more about the other accommodation we recommend.
By choosing to live in this property, you are agreeing to this exchange of information taking place.
By taking out a tenancy in recommended and accredited accommodation, you will also be agreeing to allow the University of Suffolk to request student occupancy details from the landlords/managing agents for the purpose of producing statistical analysis reports.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/accommodation/ormonde-house:
Ormonde House is a grand Victorian 16-bedroom property overlooking Christchurch Park, recently renovated to a high standard throughout.
It is a 10-minute walk to the town centre and a 20-minute walk from the Ipswich campus at the Waterfront.
This property is owned by Hearthstone Properties and managed by LEA Property Solutions.
This property achieved accreditation by the University of Suffolk in 2020.
Ormonde House is designated as a quiet property and therefore would suit:
16 single occupancy study bedrooms.
12 bedrooms have a full ensuite with shower, toilet and basin; for the remaining four bedrooms, each have their own ensuite toilet and basin, and one communal shower per two bedrooms.
Each bedroom is furnished with a bed, bedside cabinet, chest of drawers, wardrobe, study desk and chair and curtains or window blind.
The property benefits from 4 communal kitchens 4 dining areas, 3 lounge areas, a conservatory, study area and 3 laundry rooms.
There is also a large garden to the rear of the property with a clothes drying area and storage for bicycles.
Please be aware that Ormonde house is a designated ‘Quiet’ house and welcomes students who wish to live and study in a calm, party-free environment and your Tenancy Agreement will reflect this ethos.
Gold Bedrooms 5, 10, 13
One week's rent will be due as a holding deposit to hold the room.
An additional three weeks' rent will be due before moving in.
The combined total deposit will be held as a damage deposit once the tenancy has begun.
For students starting a course in January/February, or deciding to take accommodation part way through the academic year, should contact Hearthstone Properties direct to enquire further.
It is likely you will need to pay the deposit and advanced rent before the first instalment of student finance is due to you.
Prices shown are for tenancies for the 2025–2026 academic year.
Ormonde House is owned by Hearthstone Properties and managed by LEA Property Solutions.
Please check the cancellation policy with Hearthstone Properties before committing to a room, this should advise what will happen if you book a room and wish to cancel it.
There are no parking facilities for residents.
Hearthstone Properties and LEA Property Solutions manage this property independently of the University of Suffolk.
You can also make arrangements to view the building with Hearthstone Properties.
You will find their property advertised and contact details on our off-campus accommodation portal: Suffolk Studentpad .
To book a tenancy for a course starting in September, please see Suffolk Studentpad website for available options.
For courses starting at any other time of year or for tenancies starting part way through the course please call or email Hearthstone Properties direct to enquire.
Not sure if Ormonde House is for you?

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/accommodation/shared-houses:
There are a number of shared student houses within the accreditation scheme.
They can be found in various locations but all within walking distance of the Ipswich campus.
Most were previously family homes that have been converted to student houses; each house contains a shared bathroom, kitchen and social area, and typically have 4–5 bedrooms per house.
Each property is managed by the owner or a managing agent on their behalf.
These properties are available to students in any year of study (unless otherwise stated) but may be of particular interest to:
Oxford Road
Oxford Road features 4 bedrooms, a large kitchen/breakfast room, sitting/dining room, shower and bathroom with separate toilet, and rear garden.
It is situated in a residential area and is a 5-minute walk to the Ipswich campus.
There are local shops and amenities, and the town centre is a 15-minute walk away.
This property is managed by Student First.
Each bedroom is furnished with a bed, bedside cabinet, chest of drawers, wardrobe, study desk and chair, and curtains or window blind.
The property has a shared bathroom and toilet, kitchen/breakfast room and sitting/dining room.
There is a garden to the rear of the property.
Rooms are priced at £110–£120 per week for the 2025–2026 academic year.
There is a deposit of £300.
The tenancy length is 48 weeks.
The above information is based on tenancies starting in September.
For students starting a course in January/February, or deciding to take accommodation part way through the academic year, contact Student First direct to enquire further.
This property in Oxford Road is managed by Student First.
Please check the cancellation policy with Student First before committing to a room, this should advise what will happen if you book a room and wish to cancel it.
Parking is not available at this property.
Student First manages this property independently of the University of Suffolk.
You can also make arrangements to view the building with Student First.
You will find their property advertised and contact details on our off-campus accommodation portal: Suffolk Studentpad.
To book a tenancy for a course starting in September, please see Suffolk Studentpad for available options.
For courses starting at any other time of year or for tenancies starting part way through the course please call or email Student First direct to enquire.
Not sure if Oxford Road is for you?
See the other accommodation pages to learn more about the other accommodation we recommend.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/accommodation/accommodation-advice:
Whether you choose to live in on-campus or off-campus accommodation recommended by the University of Suffolk, or choose to source your own accommodation in the private rental market, you may find the information below very useful when renting accommodation.
The information below may be particularly useful if you are renting for the first time.
This guide provides an overview of tenancy agreements and deposits, providing you with useful “need to know” information.
You will find useful housing advice and renter checklists on the Housing Advice section of Suffolk Studentpad .
See also below for links to independent advice.
Accommodation is likely to be the biggest expense you have whilst at university so it is important to get it right.
It will be your second most important expense, after food.
It is normal to expect to pay a deposit and advanced rent prior to moving into your accommodation.
Four weeks rent for a deposit and four-six weeks rent for advanced rent is normal outside of student accommodation, but landlords can choose to charge more; the exact amount payable in advance will depend on the room and property you choose to book.
Undergraduate students moving away from the parental home may be entitled to a more substantial maintenance loan from Student Finance England; see their website and online calculator for more information.
Getting an idea of how much funding you are entitled to may be useful in helping you decide what accommodation you can afford.
Most landlords, including private accommodation providers that rent properties to students, require a third person to act as a ‘guarantor’ before a tenancy agreement can be completed.
A guarantor is a third party, for example a family member, who agrees to pay the rent if for any reason you as the tenant cannot.
In some cases a guarantor is also liable for other costs that might be incurred, for example any damage to the property that happened whilst you were living there.
Agreeing to be a guarantor is a binding legal commitment, and landlords can take legal action against your guarantor if the rent, or other costs, are not paid.
Check if you need a guarantor for student housing that you are interested in and be sure to get this in place before you start.
Who can act as a rent guarantor?
A person acting as a guarantor would normally have the following credentials:
If you do not have a UK-based guarantor, you may wish to consider using a rent guarantor company, for example Housing Hand, who will act as your guarantor for a fee.
Other providers are available.
You cannot normally terminate a tenancy agreement earlier than the end date specified in the contract.
Should you wish to be released from a tenancy you have already committed to, it is likely that you will need to find a suitable replacement tenant to take over your responsibility — this is known as a tenancy takeover.
Useful Steps:
Give as much information about the property and tenancy agreement as possible such as price, tenancy end date (and start date if it has not yet begun), academic year, ensuite or shared bathroom, kitchenette or shared kitchen, if bills are included in the rent.
You must not give any personal details of the other members of the flat/house.
You may advise if they are male/female for those looking for mixed or same sex flats and their year of study if known, but no identifying characteristics.
Feeling confused by all the new termionology surrounding student housing?
No need to worry - check out our helpful glossary, with all the key terms you'll need to know explained.
At the University of Suffolk you have the freedom to choose your accommodation.
However, if you do need help in making an informed decision about where you wish to live we can provide you with details about Ipswich accommodation that we recommend.
We can also provide you with information about tenancy agreements and other factors to help you make the right choice for you, whichever campus you are studying at.
If University of Suffolk Recommended and Accredited Accommodation (Ipswich) is not for you, and you choose to arrange your own accommodation elsewhere, you will find a variety of online property search engines and lettings agents that advertise accommodation that may be suited to your needs.
Local publications may also have regular or periodic housing sections and supplements detailing local agents and vacancies.
Please note, not all landlords are prepared to accept students which means you may need to search a little longer than a non-student in finding your perfect property in the private rental market.
View our London Centre accommodation page for our London Centre students.
Independent advice can also be obtained from the following resources:
The University of Suffolk does not own or manage the accommodation recommended to its students.
Instead, it is provided by private landlords and property managers that we have a close working relationship with.
Currently, recommended and accredited accommodation is only available on and around the Ipswich campus.
The University of Suffolk Accreditation Scheme has been established specifically for our students, to ensure they have access to accommodation that meets our levels of quality and safety.
All of the accommodation recommended by the University of Suffolk is surveyed by the local council to ensure that it meets our criteria.
In this way we hope to remove some of the stress and anxiety of moving to a new town, and/or moving out of the family home for the first time.
While the University of Suffolk can highlight trusted properties and providers, it is the student’s responsibility to assess the suitability based on their individual requirements.
Athena Hall , the on-campus halls of residence, is the recommended accommodation for first year students or those studying at the University of Suffolk (Ipswich campus) for the first time.
It was built specifically for our students and the University of Suffolk was involved with the development and planning of the building to ensure it meets our criteria.
Being an on-campus halls of residence, Athena Hall does not require accreditation, but it does meet the requirements nevertheless.
Athena Hall is perfectly positioned to get the most from student life, with a waterfront location and within walking distance of the University, Ipswich town and the train station.
Rooms in Athena Hall are furnished; utility bills and broadband costs are included in the rental price.
Rent is typically quoted weekly to make it easy to compare the price of different properties, and a total contract price so you can see how much it will cost in full for the duration of the tenancy.
Here at the University of Suffolk, we understand that on-campus accommodation does not suit all students.
As a result we have created the Accreditation Scheme to provide a wider range of options for students choosing where to live.
The Accredited Accommodation Scheme was established specifically with our students in mind.
Properties within the Accreditation Scheme are privately owned and managed and we only advertise properties that have been inspected by Ipswich Borough Council to ensure they meet our standards of quality and safety.
Accredited off-campus accommodation can be a useful alternative to on-campus living if you are working within a budget or looking for a property with specific characteristics, such as within a specific location or offering car parking.
Members of our Accreditation Scheme will only be able to advertise to students via the University of Suffolk if their electrical wiring and gas inspection certificates are current; an incentive for the property to be kept safe and well maintained.
Accredited off-campus accommodation is furnished; utility bills and broadband costs are included in the rental price (unless otherwise stated).
Off-campus properties are all within easy walking distance of the campus; the town centre and local amenities are nearby.
Properties recommended by the University of Suffolk are suggestions only; you are under no obligation to book the accommodation that we recommended.
Some students may prefer to make their own arrangements in privately rented accommodation elsewhere.
You are responsible for determining the suitability of the accommodation you choose based on your own individual requirements.
The tenancy agreement is between you and your chosen landlord; the University of Suffolk has no legal involvement with the tenancy agreement.
Signing a tenancy agreement is a big responsibility; find the information you need to know in these pages.
Whether you have rented before or this will be your first tenancy agreement, the information in these pages will take you through the basics.
Before you book a room or sign a tenancy we strongly recommend you do the following:
The University may be required to contact landlords to confirm a student is enrolled with us, or if they withdraw from their course.
Please note, ceasing to be a student will not automatically release you from the tenancy agreement; a tenancy agreement is a legally binding document for the full duration of time specified within it, it is between you the tenant, and the Landlord, not the University.
If you need any further information, please contact the Student Life Centre , their details can be found on the Get in Touch page.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/accommodation/accommodation-faq:
If you cannot find the answer to your query below please contact the Student Centre, their contact details can be found on the Get in Touch page.
You will find the Student Centre on the ground floor of the Waterfront Building at the Ipswich campus.
How do I find out about accommodation?
Read through the information and advice on this website, and Suffolk Studentpad for information about on and off-campus accommodation we recommend.
Contact the landlord of any properties you are interested in to ask any specific questions you may have and to arrange a viewing of the property where possible.
We recommend researching more than one property in order to keep your options open.
Once you have made your choice, the landlord of that property can advise how to book your chosen room directly with them.
How do I contact the landlords to discuss their property/book a viewing?
Please see the Contact section on the Accommodation pages of our website for links through to the landlord’s contact details.
You will be dealing with the landlord direct to as any questions about their property, to arrange to view their property, and the make your booking when you have chosen the room that is right for you.
Does the University of Suffolk own and manage the accommodation?
The University of Suffolk does not own or manage any of the accommodation we recommend to students.
Instead, we work closely with local landlords and managing agents to recommend accommodation that meets our standards of quality and safety through our accreditation scheme.
We will only ever recommend landlords and properties that we know and trust.
Where is the accommodation?
At present we can only recommend accommodation in Ipswich.
Accommodation is found in various locations around the campus, but all properties are within easy walking distance or on good transport links.
Athena Hall is on-campus and situated next to the James Hehir Building at the south end of our campus.
Grimwade is next door to the north end of the campus.
When using the SuffolkStudentpad.co.uk search function, you can view the search results on a map which will show their location with respect to the Ipswich campus.
Private Houses in the University Accreditation scheme are also found on this platform and appear on the map.
When should I start thinking about accommodation?
It is recommended that you look into accommodation once you have received an offer for your chosen course.
Landlords will typically take bookings for students starting a course in September from the November before, allowing you plenty of time to consider your options and make your decision.
Bookings for students starting a course in January/February are typically taken from the October before their course starts.
You may wish to delay booking a room until you know how much funding you will received from Student Finance England and can access your timetable, as your budget and length of course may influence your decision on which tenancy agreement is right for your needs.
Make sure you allow yourself enough time to view several properties, where possible, before you make your decision.
It is advisable to check any cancellation policies with the landlord before you book a room.
Only book a room when you are completely happy with the tenancy agreement, terms and conditions and are prepared to commit to the room.
Can I view the accommodation?
We strongly recommend you view all of the accommodation options you are interested in wherever possible.
This will enable you to see the accommodation first hand to help you decide which room is right for you.
Viewings can be arranged direct with the landlord of the property.
Is parking available?
/ Can I bring my car?
We strongly recommend you do not bring your car with you if you will be living in accommodation, unless you require it to get to a placement which is part of your course.
Athena Hall, Grimwade and some of the accredited houses have no parking facilities available for residents.
Due to the limited availability of parking, we would request that students keep this available for those students who require their own transportation in order to get to placements that form part of their degree.
If there are no car parking facilities available at the accommodation you are considering, you would be advised to make your own private car parking arrangements elsewhere or to consider alternative accommodation with parking facilities if you require your car to get to a placement that is a part of your course.
The University of Suffolk parking permit is for students (and staff) commuting in daily; students living in local student accommodation should not be leaving their car in the permit holder car parks (the University, the Wharf and Athena Hall car parks).
Ipswich is on good transport links; see the Find Us page of our website for more information.
We also encourage sustainable travel .
What does Accreditation mean?
Accreditation is like a badge of excellence for off-campus accommodation to show that the University of Suffolk approves a property to be advertised to our students.
The local authority inspects the property to ensure it meets our standards of quality and safety before we will consider it suitable for our students.
We will only ever recommend properties we know and trust to you.
Whilst Athena Hall is not accredited by the University of Suffolk (as it is on-campus), it was built with our input and to the standards of the off-campus accreditation scheme.
It follows the National Code for assured accommodation from ANUK/Unipol.
If you want to know if a property is accredited by the University of Suffolk and know the address of the property, you can contact the Student Centre on +44 (0)1473 338833, studentlife@uos.ac.uk or come and see us in the Waterfront Building and we can confirm if that property is accredited for University of Suffolk students.
You can also check out Suffolk Studentpad to see if it is listed within the property search.
What is Suffolk Studentpad?
Suffolk Studentpad is our accredited accommodation portal.
Members of our accreditation scheme use this site to advertise their accommodation to, including prices, tenancy length, photo, property description and their contact details.
You can use Suffolk Studentpad to search for live vacancies, set up property alerts to be notified when new properties matching your preferred criteria come online, and to find room-mates.
Search for accommodation by criteria that is important to you or browse everything available.
Useful housing advice can also be found on Suffolk Studentpad.
Is same sex accommodation available?
Same sex accommodation may be available, subject to demand.
Please enquire direct with the landlord of the property or properties you are interested in.
Can I still apply for accommodation if I live in the same town?
Yes.
There are no geographical restrictions on University of Suffolk Recommended and Accredited Accommodation.
Can you advise about accommodation at my NHS placement?
Students on an NHS course will be required to attend a clinical placement as part of the course.
Depending on the course, you may be able to choose where your placement is, or give a list of preferred locations.
Accommodation may be available at some placement locations; your tutors will be able to assist you with how to arrange this once your course has started.
The Student Centre does not assist with placement accommodation.
Some students will choose accommodation only in Ipswich and commute to their placement; some will take accommodation only at their placement and some will take both.
Students are advised to look into the different options to see which one will suit their own individual circumstances before booking accommodation.
Students taking accommodation at both locations may be able to claim the cost of one accommodation back from the NHS, subject to the degree they are studying.
More details about this can be found on the NHS Student Bursary website .
When should I start thinking about accommodation?
You can start reviewing your accommodation options once you have received an offer for your chosen course.
It is advisable not to book until your visa has been approved.
Please contact the accommodation provider of the properties you are interested in to see if you can arrange a viewing.
If you are not yet in the UK, you could ask for photos, floor plans or a virtual tour to show you the property in detail.
Where should I live whilst I study at the University of Suffolk?
The University offers a range of on-campus and off-campus accommodation options; there are also private letting agencies in and around Ipswich, which you may wish to look into.
When should I move into accommodation?
We recommend students move into their accommodation the weekend prior to the start of their course.
This will give you some time to settle in and get used to your new surroundings before your course induction.
You will need to book a moving-in slot with your accommodation provider; this will usually take place from August.
It is important to book a moving-in slot as this means there will be someone to receive you and give you your keys, as well as making sure your room will be ready for you.
Accommodation providers work during office hours which are Monday to Friday 09:30 – 17:00 only, so if you are arriving outside of these hours, for example at night, or at the weekend, you will have to arrange a hotel for your first night and check-in with your accommodation provider the next working day.
You can Google local hotels to find one within your budget.
What will I need to pay before moving in?
In England, tenants are expected to pay a deposit and the first instalment of rent to the landlord before being allowed to move into the accommodation.
The exact amount payable and the date of payment will differ between accommodation providers so please check prior to booking your room to make sure you can arrange for this payment to be made on time.
Will I need a UK guarantor?
Most landlords , including private accommodation providers that rent properties to students, require a third person to act as a ‘ guarantor ’ before a tenancy agreement can be completed.
• UK individual citizen — to enable a landlord to pursue action through the UK court system if required
• Solvent — credit checks may be taken to assess ability to meet any potential liability
You may be able to use a rent guarantor company who will act as your guarantor for a fee; check who your accommodation provider will accept (Housing Hand is widely accepted but other rent guarantor services are available).
The University of Suffolk is not affiliated with Housing Hand or other rent guarantor services and cannot recommend any specific companies.
It is the student’s responsibility to check the service meets your needs and is affordable.
Who can I contact if I need assistance with accommodation?
If you have any general accommodation questions that have not been answered online, please contact the Student on +44 (0)1473 338833, studentlife@uos.ac.uk , contact us via the Live Chat on our website during office hours or if you are in the neighbourhood pop in and see us in person.
University of Suffolk is my insurance choice — can I still book accommodation?
Look but don’t book!
You may find it useful to familiarise yourself with the accommodation in case you have a change of circumstances and will be studying at the University of Suffolk.
You are strongly advised not to book a room unless you will be studying with us.
I’m a January/February starter — what do I need to consider?
As a January/February (undergraduate) starter, your studies will begin in Semester 2 (we have 2 semesters per academic year), therefore you will likely be looking for accommodation for a Semester 2 only tenancy to take you from the start of your studies (Level 4) to the summer of your first year.
You would then be able to take a tenancy for the next full academic year (September — summer: Semesters 1 and 2) to cover the remainder of your Level 4 study and the first semester of your Level 5 study.
We recommend you start to contact the landlords of properties you are interested in from the October before you need the room, to allow landlords to get the September starters moved in and settled and so they can advise you of the vacancies they still have.
I am applying for a course through clearing — is it too late to find accommodation?
There may be accommodation still available for those applying through clearing; as demand for accommodation changes each year it can be difficult to predict.
It is advisable to make enquires with the landlord of the properties you are interested in once you have made an application for a degree with us.
Take a look at the accommodation pages for more information, and see the links to contact the landlords.
Can I get accommodation partway through the year?
If you decide you need accommodation after the start of the academic year, you may still be able to arrange accommodation for the rest of the academic year, subject to availability.
This could be useful if your circumstances change during the academic year.
Please note, landlords are unlikely to offer short-term accommodation for a few weeks, or a few days per week, but you could always try discussing your requirements with them to see if they can assist.
If not, you may wish to consider other alternatives such as B&Bs in the surrounding area (we have no feedback or experience of local B&Bs, therefore we do not have a recommended list to share with you).
How much does accommodation cost?
This will depend on the property and room.
Please take a look at each of the Accommodation pages on this website for further advice and check out Suffolk Studentpad for all property information in one place.
The rental prices of any accommodation recommended by the University of Suffolk include utility bills and internet access (unless otherwise stated).
The exact amount payable in advance will depend on the room and property you choose to book.
What do I need to pay upfront?
It is normal to pay a deposit/booking fee and period of advanced rent before being entitled to move in to the property, whether it is student accommodation or a private property.
The landlord will set the amount of deposit and advanced rent they require in advance; this may differ from property to property.
Once you have chosen a specific room, check with the landlord what you will need to pay upfront and when the payments will be due.
Your first payment from Student Finance England will be due to you shortly after the start of your course (providing you are enrolled), so it is very likely that your deposit and advanced rent will be due before you receive this payment.
Please do not rely on your student finance to make your deposit/advanced rent payment wherever possible, as this could be delay your being able to move into the property, which may affect your ability to start attending lectures if your home address is not within a commutable distance.
There are many factors that might delay your student finance being paid to you, including late application (for course or finance), resitting exams or resubmitting coursework.
Plan in advance so you are able to make the payments when they are due, so you can move in when you want to.
The more you can save towards your accommodation costs, the more of your student finance can stay in your bank account.
When can I move in?
Students are recommended to move into their accommodation the weekend before their Induction Week; this information will be made available on the Applicant Area of this website in the months prior to your course starting.
Sample timetables can be found on the course information pages of this website.
Moving into accommodation any sooner than this may make you liable for council tax up until the start of the course.
Your landlord should be able to provide you with council tax costs should you need to consider this.
What do I need to bring with me?
This will depend on the property you have chosen to live in, but usually students would need to bring pillows, duvet, bed linen, cutlery, crockery, pot, pans and cooking utensils.
It can help fight home-sickness if you bring a few personal items with meaning from home and maybe photos of friends and family.
Check with your landlord to see if there is anything specific that you will need to bring with you, or what they will supply.
Don’t forget to insure your possessions against theft and accidental damage.
The NUS recommends Endsleigh insurance for students.
Your landlord may offer some cover within your tenancy package, but seek additional cover if you require it.
Can I change rooms once I have moved in?
It is not always possible to change rooms once you have moved in, therefore it is important that you take the time to make the right decision on which room to book.
The landlord is under no obligation to allow you to move rooms and if they do allow it there may be an administrative charge.
If I have any maintenance issues in the accommodation who do I tell?
Report anything that is not right with your accommodation to your accommodation provider; remember if you do not report it they will not know it needs fixing.
We recommend you do this via email so you both have a written copy with a date and time that the issue was reported.
If you do not receive a satisfactory response from your accommodation provider, contact the Student Centre for advice on +44 (0)1473 338833 or studentlife@uos.ac.uk .
Please remember that accommodation providers may not have an on-site maintenance team and may need to call external contractors, so issues may not always be addressed on the same day.
Whilst an internet outage is extremely frustrating, it is not deemed an urgent response.
The Waterfront Building is open 24/7 and provides computing and internet facilities available to students.
You will also have the opportunity to add details of any missing or damaged objects on your inventory at the start of your tenancy.
Your accommodation provider will give you a copy, make sure you keep this as you will need it at the end of your tenancy.
If it was like that when you arrived, you will want to be able to show this so that the cost of repair/replacing those items is not deducted from your deposit.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/accommodation/unikitout:
We know it can be stressful trying to figure out what you’ll need for your accommodation - not to mention trying to pack it all into your suitcases!
That's why we've partnered with UniKitOut, who provide bespoke student packages, including kitchen, bedding/linen packs, and all the extras you might need for your new home at discounted rates.
You can order everything you need for your kitchen, bedroom, and bathroom now, and UniKitOut will ensure that everything is ready and waiting for you when you arrive.
Simply visit UniKitOut University of Suffolk and use the discount code SUFFOLK10 to get even more savings!
If you’re planning to arrive for the start of your course, please order a week in advance so that their team can deliver your kits on time.
Check with your accommodation provider if you can arrange delivery before your arrival.
If so, check how close this should be to your own arrival.
Please ensure you use your accommodation address as the delivery address.
Before purchasing your pack, make sure to check the details of your tenancy to find out what’s already provided and whether any items are prohibited.
We also strongly recommend that you take out insurance to cover your belongings in case they get broken or stolen.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/accommodation/glossary:
A contract between tenant (student) and landlord (note: not the University of Suffolk).
This is likely to be an Assured Shorthold Tenancy (AST) or license.
Make sure you read through the tenancy agreement in full and agree to all of the terms and conditions before signing.
Once signed, a tenancy agreement becomes a legally binding document for the duration specified, regardless of your student status.
You will not normally be able to end the tenancy earlier than the end date specified in the agreement, unless there is a break clause or you are able to find a suitable replacement tenant to take over the remainder of your contract.
Always get a tenancy agreement in writing; never rely on a verbal contract.
Accommodation is likely to be your biggest expense.
Your rent will be your second most important bill, after food.
Check you can afford your preferred accommodation before you book — allowing enough money for other expenditure.
Utility bills and internet access will be included in your rent if you choose to live in Recommended or Accredited Accommodation, but if you choose to rent privately, you should check if these will be included or additional to your rent.
If it is additional, you might want to see if you can get an idea of how much it might be.
A sum of advanced rent will likely be payable before you move into your room.
Your landlord will be able to confirm the amount required and the date it will be due to be paid once you have chosen your specific room.
Normally paid by the tenant to protect the landlord against any breakages or damages to the property (excluding fair wear and tear) that may occur during the tenancy agreement.
Sometimes used to reserve a room and give the landlord some guarantee that the tenant will take the room.
Once the tenancy ends, both landlord and tenant will discuss if there have been any breakages/damages that the tenant is liable for and the rest of the deposit (or all, if there are no breakages/damages) will be returned to the tenant.
The deposit is sometimes referred to as a holding/damage deposit.
Check with your landlord what it will be used for, how much it is, and under what conditions it is refundable (if any).
The landlord must protect the deposit in one of the tenancy deposit protection schemes and provide you with the details of the scheme used.
Students moving away from the parental home may be entitled to a more substantial maintenance loan from Student Finance England; see their website and online calculator for more information.
This is a list of furniture/other items in the property.
A tenant should be asked to complete an inventory with the landlord at the start of the tenancy.
Be sure to record any missing items, or marks/damage that is visible.
Both the tenant and the landlord should keep a copy to revisit at the check-out inspection at the end of the tenancy agreement.
Most landlords, including private accommodation providers that rent properties to students, require a third person to act as a ‘guarantor’ before  a tenancy agreement can be completed.
If you do not have a UK-based guarantor, you may wish to consider using a rent guarantor company, such as Housing Hand, who will act as your guarantor for a fee.
For the purpose of our Accommodation pages, the term Landlord refers to a person or organisation that owns a property and rents space within that property to tenants.
For the purpose of our Accommodation pages, the term Managing Agent refers to the person or organisation who manages the day-to-day running of the Landlord’s property, including any issues or repairs that may be needed.
In England, most people over the age of 18 have to pay Council Tax to the local council authority to raise money for providing services for the area they live in.
The amount you pay depends on where you live, however, most full-time students can be exempt from paying this.
You must apply for the exemption based on your full-time student status.
Admin charges include the time taken by an employee to conduct administrative duties, including providing letters, making amendments to standard documents, making additional calls or sending emails.
Theses tend to be above and beyond the normal service offered.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/accommodation/facilities-comparison:
To help you make an informed decision about which accommodation is right for you, the information below has been provided to help you compare the on-campus and accredited off-campus accommodation we recommend.
Please see Suffolk Student Pad for more information.
Prices shown are for the 2025–2026 academic year, correct as of March 2025.
Please consult the accommodation provider for any updated prices.
Other factors may apply which influence your decision:
All room prices include utility bills and Wi-Fi, desks/study areas are provided in all bedrooms, all properties have a cleaner for communal areas, weekly.
All rooms are offered on a self-catering basis only.
£151 £140 £135
Parking not available
Use student car park*
Free bike storage
Short stays (subject to availability)
Student Union gym (located on ground floor)
24-hour staff and on-site maintenance
24-hour student helpline and app
Contents insurance included
£10 per week - 3 spaces available on the drive
Free on-street parking
Longer tenancies available (subject to negotiation )
Large outdoor garden with giant chess set
Conservatory
£115 £120 £110 £110
RESERVATION £100 (taken off the 1st rental instalment)
Non-refundable if occupancy is not taken
DEPOSIT No deposit
First instalment of 4 weeks' rent to be paid when moving in.
Annual fees are then split into three further instalments:
Instalment two paid at the end of September.
Instalment three paid in the first half of January.
Instalment four paid in April.
Dates mostly coincide with SFE maintenance loan payments.
Onsite Laundry approximately £5 - £7 per load to wash, and approximately £6 - £8.50 to dry per load.
Replacement Door fob £5.76
Replacement room key £20.00
(Prices subject to change)
RESERVATION £100 (non-refundable if occupancy is not taken)
DEPOSIT £350 deposit paid when booking
The reservation fee will be taken off this instalment.
Dates coincide with SFE maintenance loan payments.
Room lockout fee (out of hours) £55
Replacement door fob £10
Replacement room key £8
Replacement mailbox or kitchen cupboard key £5
RESERVATION One week's rent as reservation fee (non-refundable if occupancy is not taken)
DEPOSIT 4 weeks' rent or the Reposit Scheme**
Or monthly, or termly, rent in advance arrangements can be made, these are assessed on an individual basis.
Onsite Laundry Free to wash and approximately £2 for 3-hour drying cycle
Replacement room key £15
RESERVATION £100 (taken off first instalment)
DEPOSIT 4 weeks' rent paid, to be paid when moving in, in addition to the first instalment.
Reservation fee will be taken off this instalment.
Washing machine provided at no additional cost
Replacement keys £10
*Student Car Parks :  The Student Car Parks are managed by IPSERV who do not allow overnight parking.
Once you commence studies, you can apply for a student parking permit via Brightspace.
Once you have done so, parking will cost £2 per day via the RingGo App .
Details about car parking can be found on the IPSERV website , see University Avenue, which is the main Student Car Park for Students & Staff Only, and Athena Hall Car Park which is the smaller carpark under Athena Hall, it’s also open to the public, although the public will pay the full rate for parking.
** Reposit Scheme require one week's rent as deposit; details of the scheme can be found in the link.
Student Finance England's Maintenance Loan for Domestic Students (not available to International Students) Student finance for undergraduates: New full-time students - GOV.UK .
PRICES CORRECT AT TIME OF PUBLICATON

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/careers-employability-and-enterprise/get-in-touch:
There's lots of ways you can reach the Careers, Employability and Enterprise Team at the University of Suffolk.
Click on each option below to find out more.
For regular updates, visit our Instagram , LinkedIn and Facebook pages.
If you're a student or graduate, or have questions about the support we offer at the University of Suffolk, please email us on careers@uos.ac.uk .
If you're an external organisation looking to connect with University of Suffolk students and graduates, please email us on connect@uos.ac.uk .
Our Working With Us page also provides a summary of the variety of ways you can engage with our students.
If you are a student or graduate at the University of Suffolk (from Ipswich, East Coast College, Suffolk New College or West Suffolk College), and know that you want to book a one-to-one appointment with a Consultant, you can book a slot by visiting our bookings page .
If you can't find a slot that works for you, please email us on careers@uos.ac.uk and we will find a slot for you.
Graduates of the University of Suffolk (from Ipswich, East Coast College, Suffolk New College or West Suffolk College) are still able to access our support for life after graduation, which includes booking one-to-one appointments.
If you would like to book an appointment, please follow the same steps above.
If you have any problems accessing the appointment booking system, please contact us via email or telephone.
Appointments can be held in person, via Microsoft Teams or over the phone, so you can reach us no matter where you are in the world.
If you have graduated from one of our Partner institutions that is not listed above, you will need to contact the Careers team at the location you studied.
For example, if you studied at Global Banking School (GBS) in Birmingham, you will need to contact their Careers and Employability team directly for Alumni support.
You can speak to the team on 01473 338840.
Come and see us in the Enterprise and Careers Zone, located in L0.02, in the Library Building (next to the SU Shop) on the Ipswich campus.
We open Monday - Friday, 9am - 5pm, except for bank holidays and the Christmas closure week.
We sometimes have to close for short periods to allow the team to complete training and attend meetings.
This doesn't happen very often, but if you are making a special trip to campus to visit the Zone, feel free to email us on careers@uos.ac.uk to check we will be open.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/careers-employability-and-enterprise/working-with-us:
The University of Suffolk provides a wide variety of opportunities for organisations to connect with our fantastic students and graduates.
The Careers, Employability and Enterprise Team play a key part in this, and can support your business in a variety of ways.
You can find a helpful summary below of the multiple ways you can connect with our students.
The team are always happy to chat with anyone considering their options, and what might be the best solution for your organisation, and can be contacted on on connect@uos.ac.uk .
If you would like to explore the other ways that the University of Suffolk might be able to support your organisation, please contact our colleagues in Business Engagement .
Student Impact Projects (SIPs) are short-term, high-impact consultancy-style projects connecting University of Suffolk students with employers.
Each project lasts up to 12 weeks (up to 20 hours per week) and is fully supported by an academic supervisor, who works with both student and employer to agree a clear workplan and oversee progress.
Students are employed and paid by the university, making the process simple and low-risk for businesses, while delivering measurable outcomes.
For students, it’s a unique chance to gain paid experience, apply their learning in a real-world context, and make a meaningful difference.
The first SIP wave of 2025/26 focuses on helping businesses explore new markets and launch products or services with confidence.
The MAPS Programme provides organisations with evidence-based insights and strategic recommendations to reduce risk and drive growth.
Example projects could include:
For more information, click here .
Our free to use job board is hosted within Handshake, our career development hub providing a one-stop shop accessible to all students and graduates at the University of Suffolk.
Creating an account is a quick and easy process, and allows you to upload opportunities throughout the year.
Roles that can be advertised included part-time/casual work, paid internships, volunteering opportunities, paid placement years, and graduate positions.
To register your organisation, and start promoting your opportunities, please visit the Employer Terms and Conditions , and then create an account .
If you are an existing user, you can log-in here .
We know that work experience is an essential part of the University journey, and paid internships can provide a fantastic source of expertise into your business.
Internships can vary in length and timing.
They might be for 4-8 weeks over the summer holiday, part time over 12 weeks during term, or something different to fit the needs of your business and the availability of our students.
Their flexibility is one of their key advantages, and we are here to discuss the possibilities with you further.
We know that internships may be new to many employers, so we are here to help you think about how they may work within your organisation.
Please get in touch on connect@uos.ac.uk and we will be very happy to help.
Most courses offer students the opportunity to pursue a work placement through a variety of formats.
Placement lengths and requirements vary from 100 hours to a 1-year sandwich placement across Schools and courses.
If you’d like to explore the possibilities, please contact us on connect@uos.ac.uk and we will connect you with the correct individual to explore this further.
Students on the following courses are currently able to undertake a sandwich placement (between their 2nd and final year):
Please note that this information is up to date at point of publication, but changes can occur.
For the most up to date information on the courses that we offer, and which provide students with sandwich placement options, please visit the Definitive Course Record (DCR) .
If you would like to find out more about courses that provide shorter placements, please email connect@uos.ac.uk and we will be very happy to discuss this in further detail.
A wide selection of activities and events are held throughout the year to enable you to connect with students.
Organisations and alumni covered lots of different topics to help attendees explore different routes into a sector or industry, provide insights into available opportunities, and inspire their future career plans.
We offer our face to face events, offering these alongside online webinars and workshops, ensuring that we maintain the accessibility that hybrid delivery offers to students and employers alike.
Our Careers Fairs and events are fantastic opportunities to network with our diverse and high calibre students, promote your vacancies and build brand awareness.
Suffolk Careers Fair - 4 November 2025
Register Your Interest Here
What are the benefits of attending the Suffolk Careers Fair?
In addition to the confirmed events, there are many options for organisations to consider, and we are keen to maintain the flexible delivery modes developed in response to our recent pandemic experience.
We have included a few suggestions below, but are always open to new ideas and opportunities:
Find out more email connect@uos.ac.uk
To discuss the options in more detail, please get in touch with us via connect@uos.ac.uk or 01473 338840 so we can explore this further.
Employability, enterprise and entrepreneurship are embedded throughout University of Suffolk degrees.
Many courses will bring in a variety of guest speakers and organisations to engage creatively with their students, perhaps by offering visits or setting live briefs that enable students to apply their theoretical learning to practical scenarios.
Opportunities change year on year as we continually develop, so please contact us on connect@uos.ac.uk to discuss in further detail.
A full list of current courses offered by the University of Suffolk can be found on our Definitive Course Record (DCR) .
Build Your Future is the University of Suffolk’s new scheme providing enhanced Careers, Employability and Enterprise support for students who are underrepresented in Higher Education.
This includes students who:
The aim of the scheme is to support these students to enhance their employability and future career development by providing tailored support and access to opportunities that they may previously not have had the means or confidence to participate in.
As part of the scheme, we are really keen to partner with local employers to enhance our programme of support.
Many of the students joining the scheme won’t have had the opportunity to experience different work environments through employer visits, work placements, volunteering or work shadowing, for example.
Consequently, they will have less insight and less confidence when facing the transition into future employment.
Our aim is to offer a range of supported opportunities to help address these barriers.
Employers can support the scheme in a variety of ways, such as hosting visits to their place of work, delivering talks about their organisation/sector or supporting sessions on workplace skills.
We are very much open to suggestions on how we can work together to develop a skilled and confident workforce.
There is no financial commitment and the amount of time you can offer is completely flexible.
Our partnership with Hays, a multinational recruitment agency with offices in Ipswich, started in June 2023 and has already had a huge impact on our delivery of Careers and Employability skills for Business and Technology students.
Find out more and read feedback from our students.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/alumni-and-supporters/graduate-outcomes-survey:
This page provides further information about the Graduate Outcomes Survey.
The page is updated regularly, so please come back often.
The Graduate Outcomes survey is a national survey capturing information about the activities and perspectives of graduates 15 months after they finish their studies.
The survey is managed and run by the Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA).
All graduates who completed a course at the University of Suffolk will be invited to take part in the survey.
Your participation in the survey is important as your responses will help our current and future students gain an insight into career destinations and development as well as help us to evaluate, plan and promote our courses, services and facilities.
The survey is also of national significance as it allows policy makers, charities, journalists, researchers and others to understand the higher education sector and the state of the graduate labour market.
You will be surveyed approximately 15 months after you complete your studies.
You will receive an email from HESA inviting you to complete the survey online.
HESA may also contact you by telephone and ask you to complete the survey over the phone.
If you are not contactable, HESA may seek the information from a third party, such as a family member.
Before you start the survey, HESA will provide detailed information about how your data will be processed, who will receive it, and what they will use it for.
HESA will share your responses with us and we will use it for evaluation, planning, marketing and recruitment purposes.
It is not compulsory to complete the survey.
When you are contacted by HESA, you will be able to opt out and you will not be contacted again.
You can only opt-out of the Graduate Outcomes Survey through HESA.
However, we really hope you will take part in the survey as we’d like to learn more about your activities and perspectives after you graduate.
The information you provide will help shape our courses, services and facilities for the future.
We will pass on your contact information to HESA.
All you need to do is make sure we have accurate contact information for you – especially a valid email address.
To update your contact information, please contact: Studentlife@uos.ac.uk
We are required to share your contact information with HESA for the purposes of conducting the Graduate Outcomes Survey.
This is outlined in our Privacy Notices.
Your contact information will only be used by HESA to send you the survey.
As noted above, it is not compulsory to complete the survey.
Further information about how we handle and use your personal information can be found in this link: Data Governance | University of Suffolk (uos.ac.uk)
HESA supports the advancement of the higher education sector by collecting and publishing timely and reliable data about the sector.
We will provide further information about the survey shortly before you are invited to complete it.
If you have any other questions about HESA and data protection, please see the data protection section of the HESA website or contact HESA's Data Protection Officer:
Email: data.protection@hesa.ac.uk Tel:                   01242 211135 Address:           HESA, 95 Promenade, Cheltenham, GL50 1H
If you have any questions which are not answered above, please contact the HESA Liaison Team by
Email: liaison@hesa.ac.uk or
Phone: +44 (0)1242 211144.
Find out more about data protection at the University of Suffolk here .

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/careers-employability-and-enterprise/our-support:
As a team, we are here to support you at every stage of your career journey.
We offer students and graduates:
If you are currently looking for a job, our W here to Find a Job page may be helpful.
We also support apprentices with their career planning and development, helping them to make the most of their apprenticeship experience.
The service and support offered by the Careers, Employability and Enterprise team is underpinned by our Statement of Service: Careers, Employability and Enterprise Team - Statement of service .
We are constantly exploring new partnerships, new opportunities and seeking student feedback to make sure we are offering the best support to our students.
Some of our key partners include:
Sanctuary Graduates to provide targeted job and internship opportunities
Bodyswaps , who provide you with access to innovative and immersive VR modules (headsets available!) that help you improve your interview technique
Bright Network offer a variety of targeted career development opportunities including online courses in all sectors
Our Enterprise and Entrepreneurship team run a fantastic range of activities to support students and graduates that want to build their own business or establish themselves as freelancers.
We relaunched our bootcamps in 2022, and now run these at least once a year, giving students and graduates the chance to develop a new or existing business idea, product or service, and pitch for funds to help them make their dreams a reality.
In 2023, we also opened the University's first ever Enterprise and Career Zone.
This is open Monday - Friday throughout the year (except Bank Holidays and Christmas closure days), enabling students to walk in and get advice on the same day.
We also encourage students and graduates to book 1:1 appointments with their Consultants if a pre-booked meeting is more suited to their schedule.
The Team are based in Ipswich, but their support is accessible to current University of Suffolk students who are studying in the following locations: Ipswich, East Coast College, Suffolk New College, and West Suffolk College.
Graduates from these locations who have been awarded a University of Suffolk or UCS degree can also access our support for life.
However, if you are enrolled onto a University of Suffolk course at Global Banking School, London School of Commerce, Unitas, Unicaf, or another location/institution not listed above, you will need to contact the Careers or Student Services Team at your institution for support.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/careers-employability-and-enterprise/future-me:
FutureMe is the University's interactive online careers platform that compliments our in person services.
It offers advice and help in all areas of employment from job searching to CV writing.
Login today to begin developing personally and professionally, learn about yourself through the personal assessment quizzes, explore your options through the job board, learn how to make informed decisions with career e-learning, and get to where you want to be.
Career Pulse Complete the quiz to get your employability score.
Questionnaires and Assessments There are a variety of questionnaires available that will help you better understand your strengths, what motivates you, how you learn and much more.
These questionnaires are designed to help you develop your self-awareness, the S in the DOTS model.
Self-awareness is the ability to identify and articulate what motivates you, you skill set and personality.
Self-awareness builds a strong foundation for you to build the rest of your job search from.
CV Help Did you know that most CVs are analysed by a computer before anyone reads them?
CV360 scores your CV against more than 50 checks that commonly trip up an ATS and will help you to optimise your CV.
CV Builder Create each section of your CV following the most up to date advice while ensuring its layout is accurate.
Cover Letter Builder Learn how to write a cover letter that follows standard procedure and will impress your recruiter.
Elevator Pitch Builder When networking you only get one chance to make a good impression.
Learn how to sell yourself in under sixty seconds.
Assessment Centres Psychometric, personality or aptitude test assess the suitability of candidates during the hiring process - they are often used in assessment centres.
Practising aptitude tests can make a big difference to your chances of being hired!
Job Search Engine Enter your job preference and location to find your ideal job.
Career E-Learning Browse the hundreds of courses on offer to discover and develop new career and business skills, watch expert-advice videos, learn through interactive e-learning courses, educate yourself with top tips in articles written by experts.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/careers-employability-and-enterprise/enterprise-and-entrepreneurship:
Whether you want to learn about and develop enterprise and entrepreneurship skills and capabilities or become an entrepreneur, we have several initiatives to help kick-start that journey.
Getting involved in enterprise and entrepreneurship helps students to develop transferable skills such as commercial awareness, creative problem solving, teamwork, leadership and communication — skills that top employers look for in graduates.
The University of Suffolk’s enterprise team provides students and graduates opportunities and support whether it is setting up their own business or social enterprise, becoming freelance/self-employed, creating a scalable start-up or developing these crucial skills ready for the job market.
What is Student Enterprise?
Our student enterprise initiatives aim to help you to take charge of your personal development by enabling you to explore alternative career prospects such as starting your own business or social enterprise.
Students have the opportunity to get involved with a wide range of programmes, competitions, events and activities throughout the year; which can be added to CVs' thus demonstrating those crucial high-demand skills.
The enterprise and entrepreneurial pathway is also an option to explore if you want to discover or grow your business or creative flare or develop a passion project or hobby, into a potential money-maker.
The CEE team host an extensive and varied range of beginners:
For those looking to advance off the beginners mark we host:
To learn more about what we offer, see our range of services below or get in touch !
Enterprise and Entrepreneurship Unravelled: What does it really mean and what is the value to students?
Drop-in about careers and employability including freelancing and start-ups with expert staff.
Other useful support, services and resources that will help you in your start-up journey.
Open to everyone, this boot camp for total beginners is focused specifically on social enterprise.
Open to everyone, these tailored sessions are perfect if you're considering a business start-up.
Prepare for ideas aplenty and come ready to innovate!
New advanced programme for businesses now launching  – tailored expert mentoring from the Business Growth Coach Network (BGCN).
Casual, fun and relaxed with no official commitments this meet-ups are open to all students and local enterprise people who have a business or are thinking of having a business.
The Games Hub was launched in 2016 to address a skills shortage in the county, and has gone on to help students and graduates showcase their games through the Tranzfuser scheme.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/careers-employability-and-enterprise/placement-years-internships-and-work-experience-:
Enhance your employability with professional experience.
Here at the University of Suffolk, we know how important it is that students have access to high-quality work-based and work-related learning opportunities, relevant to their course of study.
There are a number of options whether it's a placement year, a shorter duration internship, work experience over a holiday period or even part-time work alongside your studies.
Some courses also include work-based learning modules which incorporate opportunities for work experience, often in level 5 (usually your second year, or third year if you are following a Foundation Year course).
Scroll down to find out more about the different options available.
If you join us and haven't opted for a course with a placement year and later feel it is something you'd like to do, then please speak to your Course Leader or the Placement Consultant aligned with your school to find out if it is possible.
We'll list as many opportunities as possible on our Jobs Board , so we strongly recommend that students check this regularly.
The Jobs Board is part of Handshake , which is also packed full of advice, guidance and handy tools to support your applications and future career.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/careers-employability-and-enterprise/events-and-activities:
The University of Suffolk Careers, Employability and Enterprise Team run a variety of events and activities throughout the year.
We offer events through a hybrid approach, enabling us to connect students to an even greater selection of organisations from around the world.
This also means that students can frequently access events, even if they are not able to attend campus, or can watch workshops and webinars back in their own time if they were unable to attend on the day.
Current students and graduates can find out what's on by visiting the Events section of Handshake .
Events can include:
Come and join us in the Waterfront Foyer on 6 October between 12:00 and 14:00, where the Careers Employability and Enterprise Team will be joining forces with the Students Union to bring an exciting range of employers all offering part-time jobs suitable for students to fit around lectures.
Employers looking to attend with part time jobs to fill please complete this expression of interest form
Our next Careers Fair will be on 4 November 2025 from 12-2pm
Students can register here: https://app.joinhandshake.co.uk/stu/career_fairs/817
Employers interested in attending can complete our Expression of Interest form here:
Date to be confirmed - please check all our events on Handshake
Find out more about our enterprise and entrepreneurship offerings, including our Winter Business Start-Up Boot Camp aimed at those with a passion for commercial and craft business.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/careers-employability-and-enterprise/micro-placements:
The Micro-Placement scheme offers paid opportunities that will enable you to take on real responsibility by working on live projects, or with services/facilities delivered within the University.
The Micro-Placements are flexible to fit in with your studies.
Typically, you could work between 2 and 4 hours a week, for a maximum of 30 hours duration and some may be remote.
Micro-Placements are open to current University of Suffolk students studying in the following locations:  Ipswich, East Coast College, Suffolk New College, and West Suffolk College.
Micro-Placements are not open to PhD students.
Please note you can complete only one Micro-Placement in an academic year, but you can apply again the following year.
If previously you have been unsuccessful in gaining a Micro-Placement — don’t be put off please try again.
Micro-Placements have three main intakes a year, check on Handshake for the job descriptions.
Before you apply please see FutureMe for support with your CV and cover letter - your CV and cover letter will form part of the decision making process.
All applicants are guaranteed an interview.
If you have any questions please contact Annabelle Richardson .
Build your Future scheme .
This opt-in scheme offers exclusive opportunities to enhance employability, grow confidence and build networks.
This is to recognise and to support underrepresented  groups.
If you have completed a Micro-Placement this academic year you can still apply!
Flexible to fit alongside studies “We collaborated both on campus and remotely via Microsoft Teams.
There was always the opportunity for flexible working, and the team were very engaging and helpful” Emily with Health and Safety
You’ll get real experience “One of the key things I gained from the micro-placement was the sheer amount of real working experience” Theo with the Student Life Team
You could make a difference to students lives by developing the student experience “One of my first tasks was sharing questionnaires with students from all years to determine whether the questionnaires were engaging enough.
This feedback resulted in a focus group with university students from various ethnic backgrounds” Lauren with the Diversity Team
Can help you find direction in your career “It was an inspiring personal experience which made me determined to apply for the permanent Web Services and Process developer job at the University.
This, of course, wouldn’t be a reality if I didn’t take part in the micro-placement scheme” Karina with Student Services
The University will support you before during and after placement “Annabelle was always so helpful and so quick to reply to me when I needed to ask any questions” Alen with Student Services
Boost your CV and improve employability “A wonderful opportunity for someone who would like to gain professional skills” Karina with Student Services
References “The micro-placement gives you fantastic practical experience and even a reference who can attest to your best skills” Emily with Health and Safety
Successful candidates (not available to PhD students) who complete their placement hours can also get additional recognition on their Higher Education Achievement Record (HEAR) by undertaking these additional optional activities:
These activities must be completed outside of placement hours.
Towards the end of your placement, the Careers Team will offer a 30-minute careers guidance meeting to reflect on your placement experience, what you have developed, and how the experience can be presented to future employers.
Theo - Student Life
Lauren - Diversity and Careers
Alen - Student Services
Elgin - Student Union
Chioma - Doctoral College
Nitesh - Careers Employability and Enterprise
Leroy - Suffolk Sustainability Institute - Digi Tech Centre
Stephen - Sustainability and Programmes
Elliot - Business Engagement, Careers, and Employability
"I found it highly beneficial to draw on my micro-placement experience when speaking to prospective employers"

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/careers-employability-and-enterprise/inspiring-futures-fund-:
The Inspiring Futures Fund is open for applications!
What is the Inspiring Futures Fund?
The University of Suffolk know how vitally important it is for students to gain work experience, to build up experience, skills and confidence in the workplace.
It also enables employers to see how useful you could be for them and their workforce.
We want to help you with some costs of undertaking your career related work experience/Continuing Professional Development (CPD).
CPD is the process of improving and maintaining professional skills knowledge and experience, for example, conferences, training, workshops or courses.
Most students can apply for a bursary of:
To be used for:
All related to your Work Experience/CPD.
Students who have opted into the Build your Future opt-in scheme will have exclusive access to ring-fenced funding in the current scheme but still have to follow the above funds' allocation criteria.
Build Your Future is for you if:
The amount you apply for will depend on the individual circumstances.
Work Experience...
Will help you learn Experimenting with different types of experiences will help you to get to know more about your likes, dislikes, values, priorities, and strengths as well as to learn more about different types of work to help you to make good decisions about your career.
The more experiences you’ve had, the more learning and development that will happen as a result.
Is a safe place to experiment You can invest your time volunteering or working in part-time roles and summer jobs as a chance to try new things and to road-test a career option.
Could be evidence of your passion You can show that you are genuinely interested in that area of work.
A great thing to put on your CV when you start to apply for graduate jobs.
Can help to get you connected Work experience could put you next to the person that will put you in the right direction in terms of possible roles you can apply for.
Makes you more successful in applications and interviews Applicants with work experience outperform those with no work experience.
Employers will ask questions about your work experience, knowledge, and interest in the job.
They are looking for clear examples and evidence of this.
We want to help you with the costs of undertaking your career-related work experience/other.
This is why the Careers, Employability, and Enterprise Team has a dedicated fund that is open to most current University of Suffolk students:
The scheme is not open to PhD students.
The scheme supports low or unpaid work experience/CPD that can be in the UK, overseas or for research-related experiences (e.g.
Research project at the University or within an organisation that is undertaking research), for example, help getting to interviews, assessment centres, insight days or fund to access professional clothing.
You may also want some help to fund a training course or conference that is relevant to your personal and skills development.
The Inspiring Futures Fund will be awarded on a competitive, first come, first served basis, assessed against the strength of the information provided in the application form until the allocated funding for the has been exhausted.
There is no guarantee that an application will be successful or that you will receive the full amount requested.
Priority will be given to students that have not received funding before, and students can only receive a grant once per year of study.
To apply you must complete the online application form and send it to inspiringfuturesfund@uos.ac.uk , along with all of your supporting documents.
A decision will be made on your suitability to receive the funds following the closing dates mentioned above.
Applications are assessed on a first come, first served basis and you must return your evidence and documents in a timely manner to avoid the risk of your requested funds being allocated to another student.
The University reserves the right to close the fund earlier if all funds are disbursed before the closing date.
Make a start with your application by reading the terms and conditions first, then fill in the online application form and submit your budget planner in support of your application.
Below you can find the processing times for incoming applications.
The purpose of this section is to help you plan out a comprehensive budget for your work experience or other funds requested.
There are two parts of the budget template: the budget costing overview and detailed budget evidence.
Please ensure you use the budget template document to create your budget planner.
The table will allow you to identify individual costs associated with the work experience or other (e.g.
accommodation costs, training course).
The budget planner will allow you to provide evidence to support your budget figures (e.g.
a screenshot from a website showing the accommodation cost).
You should insert all the costs you will incur as a result of going on your work experience or internship opportunity in your application.
If your work experience is yet to be confirmed, please provide estimates of what the costs may be.
You can re-confirm these costs at a later stage once finalised.
For example, if you know the approximate location and length of the work experience, provide an estimate of costs based on this and include a note that is based on estimates only.
These estimations will still need to be supported by evidence from your research into what the costs are likely to be.
If you will be receiving a salary for your work experience opportunity and/or allowances, you can still apply for an Inspiring Futures Fund to help you access it before your first salary is received.
You must include the total salary and/or allowances you expect to receive.
You may then apply for an Inspiring Futures Fund to contribute towards any remaining costs.
To provide evidence of the costs you include, you should provide supporting evidence by completing and submitting your budget planner (please ensure you add your name and student ID number to your budget planner).
In addition to the evidence, you should also include any calculations within your budget planner to demonstrate how costs were identified.
This is especially important when the evidence doesn’t directly match the figures entered.
When submitting your budget planner please make sure it is clear what information we should be referring to and which cost it is relevant to.
In the past students have included entire documents or provided website addresses with no accompanying evidence from them.
Where costs in your budget or supporting evidence are shown in a foreign currency, you must also provide a conversion demonstrating the costs in pounds sterling for each individual expense.
Failure to supply comprehensive budget information and evidence will have a detrimental effect on your application and may delay award of a payment.
Check out the links below and read more about students who have been awarded an Inspiring Futures Fund on their experience and how it support thier career aspirations.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/careers-employability-and-enterprise/build-your-future:
Enhanced Careers, Employability and Enterprise support
The University of Suffolk is a diverse and vibrant community and is committed to providing equality of opportunity for all.
In the Careers, Employability and Enterprise Team we strive to promote inclusivity and to support students from all walks of life to develop their employability, explore their future plans and make a successful transition to their chosen post-graduate destination.
We know that some students face additional barriers in working towards and achieving their next steps.
That’s why we’ve developed the Build Your Future opt-in scheme, offering enhanced support and targeted opportunities for students who may identify with one or more of the below statements:
Current students can find out more about Build Your Future, including how to register, in the Careers, Employability and Enterprise section of the Student Hub .
For more information on the wider context and how the University of Suffolk works to increase participation of students normally under-represented in Higher Education, as well as supporting our students to succeed on their course and progress into employment and further study, you can read our full Access and Participation Plan.
For regular updates, follow us on social media:
Facebook: UniofSuffolkCareers Instagram: uos_entandcareers

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/careers-employability-and-enterprise/our-exclusive-job-board-:
The Careers, Employability and Enterprise Team is here to help employers with your recruitment by connecting you with students and graduates who are looking for work.
Our jobs platform, Handshake, is the one-stop shop for all students and graduates to interact with employer opportunities.
We are pleased to be able to offer this service to all employers completely free of charge.
We want to ensure that our students and graduates have access to as many opportunities as possible from across Ipswich, Suffolk, the UK and around the world, and that there is no cost barriers to organisations who may have limited recruitment budgets.
Our free to advertise, online job board:
If you have any queries about this or the other promotional services we offer employers, including careers fairs, employer presentations and live project briefs, please contact us on 01473 338840 or connect@uos.ac.uk , and we will be happy to help.
You can also find an overview on our Working With Us pages .
Visit the Employer Terms and Conditions , and then create an account , or log in if you already have an account.
A helpful user guide is available from Handshake , our job board provider.
View the Departmental Privacy Notice .
Visit the Student Code of Practice , and then for current students, log in to the Handshake Job Board .
If you are a University of Suffolk graduate who hasn't activated their Handshake profile as a student, please use this link to log in for alumni access to the Handshake Job Board .
Please note that Handshake launched in September 2023, so if you graduated in 2023 or in the years prior, you will not have a Handshake account and will need to use the alumni link above.
If you have any problems logging in, please email the Careers Team .
The team are available through out the year to support organisations, students and graduates.
Students/graduates can email: careers@uos.ac.uk
Organisations can email: connect@uos.ac.uk
Call us: 01473 338840
Or visit the Enterprise and Careers Zone on the Ipswich Campus in L0.02, open Monday - Friday, 9-5.
For regular updates:
Instagram: @uos_entsandcareers
LinkedIn: University of Suffolk Enterprise and Careers
Facebook: UniofSuffolkCareers
Student Code of Practice - this Code of Practice relates to the University of Suffolk online Job Board, which is co-ordinated by the University of Suffolk Careers, Employability and Enterprise Service.
This service is free to all students and employers and operates as an information exchange service.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/vicki-doughty:
Vicki joined the University of Suffolk in November 2022 as Futures Manager and is responsible for the development and delivery of the Futures Team which delivers careers, employability, placement, and work-based learning activity both within and outside the curriculum.
She has a long career working within university careers services and a range of education business partnerships focusing on social mobility initiatives.
Most recently Vicki worked at the University of Essex developing work-based learning and placement provision and increasing employer engagement across the curriculum.
Vicki was responsible for developing strategic employer partnerships, consultancy programmes, and the delivery of an annual student conference.
She was also a Workplace Coach.
Prior to working in HE, Vicki was Corporate Responsibility Manager for Linklaters LLP where she led Community Investment initiatives including programmes to widen the talent pool applying to study law and to consider Higher Education in general.
She has also worked for the Prince’s Trust and Business in the Community on a range of projects to raise young people’s educational aspirations and address inequality in education.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/amy-volkert:
Amy joined the university in August 2022, taking the position of Enterprise and Entrepreneurship Manager, working within the Business Engagement, Careers, and Employability Directorate.
Amy's role includes supporting students and graduates seeking to start their own businesses, pursue freelance opportunities, expand an existing entity, or explore their options.
Additionally, Amy will lead the design, development and facilitation of the university's Games Hub Programme.
As well as recently achieving a first-class honours degree in Business and Management at the university, Amy has practical experience as a business owner – running a promotional events agency in London and a vintage fashion company in London, Bury St Edmunds and Barcelona.
Having studied at UOS, Amy is passionate about the university and hopes to contribute to students' and graduates' personal and professional development by sharing practical and academic business skills, knowledge, and experience.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/anna-flatt:
Anna joined the University of Suffolk in 2019.
She is an Employability and Careers Consultant specialising in the support of students from underrepresented groups as well as Post Graduate Research students, International students and those studying in the University's Leadership and Management Academy.
Anna supports students in all stages of their employability and career development, from recognising and developing skills, through to exploring options for next steps and making successful transitions with practical support in application and interview processes.
She offers impartial 1:1 information, advice and guidance as well as designing and delivering curriculum sessions and group workshops.
She also runs the University's Build Your Future scheme, providing targeted support and resources for underrepresented student groups, and oversees the bespoke FutureMe Employability Award.
Anna graduated from the University of York with a BA(Hons) in Sociology and has been working in a range of settings within the Employability and Careers sector for over 20 years.
She has a Level 6 Diploma in Career Guidance Theory, a Postgraduate Certificate in Academic Practice, and is a Fellow of the HEA (Higher Education Academy).
Anna's advice to all students is to make the most of your time at University - it will go faster than you think!
Get involved where you can as gaining wider experience through extra-curricular activities, work or volunteering not only helps to develop your skills and looks good on your CV, but is also a great way to meet people.
Remember your Careers, Employability and Enterprise is here for you at all stages of your studies and beyond, so don't leave it until graduation is on the horizon before you get in touch - engaging with the services from early on can make a huge difference in developing your career management skills and planning towards your future goals.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/darrin-steward:
Darrin joined the University in February 2023 as Employability and Careers Consultant and is aligned with courses across the School of Health, Sciences and Society and the School of Business, Arts, Social Sciences and Technology.
He is also the consultant for non-health-related apprenticeships across both schools, as well as for the Suffolk Doctoral College.
His role focuses on working with students, researchers, and graduates to support career planning, employability development, informed decision-making, and the achievement of career goals.
He provides impartial one-to-one careers guidance through Microsoft Teams, in person, by email, and by phone, as well as contributing to course design and validation to ensure that Employability, Enterprise, and Entrepreneurship - the “3 Es” – together with the University’s Graduate Attributes, are embedded across programmes.
Before joining UoS, Darrin was Head of Careers at St Benedict’s Catholic School, where he led a complete redesign of the school’s careers programme.
This work, which included embedding careers learning across the curriculum and strengthening employer and alumni engagement, was recognised in 2022 when the school achieved the Quality in Careers Standard (QICS) for the first time.
Darrin is a QCD Level 7 qualified careers adviser, a Registered Career Development Professional, a Registered Career Leader, a Fellow of the Higher Education Academy, and a member of both the Career Development Institute and AGCAS.
He holds an MA in Career Development and Management (Distinction), the OCR Level 6 Diploma in Career Guidance, the Level 6 Certificate in Career Leadership, a CMI Level 7 Certificate in Strategic Leadership and Management, a Postgraduate Certificate in Academic Practice, and a Postgraduate Diploma in Education.
A strong advocate of lifelong learning, he is committed to helping students and colleagues build their knowledge, skills, and confidence.
Darrin’s advice to students:
Member of the Career Development Institute (CDI).
Registered Career Development Professional (RCDP), Registered Career Lead (RCL).
Member of the Association of Graduate Careers Advisory Services (AGCAS)

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/get-in-touch/people-directory/school-of-social-sciences-and-humanities/laura-sparkes:
Laura joined the University of Suffolk in March 2022 as a Student Recruitment Officer before moving into the role of Employability and Careers Consultant in January 2023.
Laura is aligned with the School of Health, Sciences and Society, working with academics to embed careers and employability activity into the curriculum and delivering sessions in related topics.
Laura also works closely with the apprenticeship team to support the apprentices in developing their career management skills alongside their studies.
She supports students in all stages of their career planning, offering one-to-one appointments as well as delivering group workshops.
Laura graduated from Lancaster University in 2014 with a BA (Hons) in Sociology & Criminology.
Since graduating, Laura worked for a number of years in Accounting before moving to New Zealand in 2018 where she continued in this field.
Upon her return to the UK, Laura worked at the local jobcentre in a Careers Advisor role and, having found this role incredibly rewarding, chose to further develop her career in this sector at the University of Suffolk.
Laura is now working towards her Level 6 Career Development Professional Apprenticeship.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/sonia-britto:
Sonia is the Careers and Employability Adviser working closely with the School of Technology, Business and Arts, offering curriculum-based sessions, workshops, and 1-2-1 career coaching appointments.
Her primary role is to work with students, researchers, and graduates to support them with planning their careers, developing their employability, making informed career choices, and achieving their objectives.
She delivers impartial, 1:1 careers information, advice and guidance through different mediums including Teams, in-person, email and phone.
She also supports course design, validation and revalidation of new and existing courses, playing a key role in ensuring that Employability, Enterprise and Entrepreneurship - the 3 E's , including the University’s Graduate Attributes , are truly embedded throughout degree programmes at all levels.
Studied Psychology in Portugal and she has experienced a variety of roles such as HR Consultant in a multinational recruitment agency Randstad and Careers and People Development Consultant at Porto Business School – University of Porto.
In 2020/21 completed the Postgraduate Certificate Academic Practice (PGCAP) and received a professional postgraduate qualification attaining international professional recognition as a Fellow of Higher Education (FHEA) awarded by Advance HE.
Sonia’s big piece of advice to students: Make use of Careers, Employability, and Enterprise services early on in your studies and find the right support.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/alanna-plaats:
Alanna joined the University of Suffolk in January 2023 as the Placement Consultant for the School of Social Science and Humanities.
Alanna supports students through the Placement process, from searching and applying for Professional Placements (Sandwich years) or shorter placements which are part of the curriculum, through to the completion of the Placement.
Alanna graduated from the University of Lincoln in 2018 with a BA(Hons) in Criminology.
During this time, she had a part time job working at the University Careers Centre, where she gained experience of providing job search and application support to students.
Since 2018 Alanna has worked with a local charity, working to coordinate a voluntary lead service where she gained knowledge and experience of Charitable organisations.
As well as specific areas such as working with volunteers, Police custody, homelessness, substance misuse, and domestic abuse.
Alanna developed her knowledge and experience of Placements when working at the University of Essex where she grew placement opportunities and supported students into successful Placements.
Alanna developed Placements through working effectively with employers and developed new processes to ensure quality and compliance of the Placement process.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/cathy-johnson:
Cathy Johnson joined the Careers, Employability and Entrepreneurship team in February 2023 and supports Technology, Business and Arts courses with work-related learning activities.
This ranges from supporting students with their work placements to consulting with businesses and academics to embed opportunities within the curriculum and build connections between Businesses, Students and Academics.
Having completed both study abroad and a placement year as part of her International Business with French degree, Cathy has first-hand experience of the benefits of work placements.
Previous roles at University of Suffolk include; Administrator for the Business Development and Knowledge Exchange Team, CPD Administration and managing the ESF funded In Career Education and Training (ICET) project.
Cathy came to the University of Suffolk after a long and varied career in the private sector.
After a number of years in B2B sales, managing a portfolio of packaging and logistics clients throughout Western Europe, she stepped into the world of Horticulture where she headed up the French PR team before finally settling into Digital Marketing where she mainly focused on content creation for B2C campaigns but also led on key projects including rebranding, product range launches and website reorganisation.
Working to support organisations build an early talent pipeline as well as developing opportunities for Technology, Business and Arts students including Placements, Work Experience, Internships and in-curriculum activities such as Hackathons, Mock Interviews and Live-Project Briefs.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/tom-hardy:
Tom has a diverse background in teaching and leadership within primary education.
After completing a BA Hons in Primary Education at the University of Cumbria, Tom taught across Key Stage 2 before moving into leadership roles, including SENDCo and Assistant Headteacher.
During his teaching career, he also served as a Designated Safeguarding Lead, mentor, coach, and Senior Mental Health Lead.
In 2023, Tom transitioned to the University of Suffolk as a Placement Consultant within the Careers and Employability Team.
His role is heavily focused on employer liaison, where he plays a key part in building and maintaining relationships with employers.
Tom regularly meets with businesses to explore opportunities for collaboration, including placements, internships, insight days, and other initiatives that benefit both students and employers.
He is responsible for planning and organising events such as careers fairs, where employers can connect directly with the University’s talent pool.
Through these partnerships, Tom ensures students have access to valuable work experience and career development opportunities.
Tom also manages the Inspiring Futures Fund (IFF), a scheme that provides students with funding to pursue work experience outside of their course.
He supports students with their applications, organises decision-making panels, and continually works to expand the fund by engaging businesses and encouraging community investment.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/hayden-jarrett:
Hayden supports the Careers, Commercial and Academic Partnerships Directorate with all of their data collation and analysis including; Careers Engagement, Graduate Outcomes and Apprenticeships.
He also manages all systems and platforms within the directorate to ensure data capture and smooth operations.
He produces Power BI dashboards and reports to help contribute to the university's strategy.
Hayden began as the Administrator for the CCAP directorate and progressed to the role of Data Analyst for the Careers, Employability and Enterprise team, where he supported with data entry, reporting and planning.
He is also the representative for the Digital Process Automation Group and has supported the directorate in digitising manual processes.
Prior to working at the University of Suffolk, Hayden worked as a Quality Assessor for AXA insurance and he graduated with a BA (Hons) Degree in Education, where his interest in Data began and developed.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/get-in-touch/people-directory/bece/hannah-page:
With over 10 years’ experience in project, marketing and event management, she has worked across a variety of industries including sports and leisure, hospitality and hair and beauty with time out for an overseas adventure as well.
Now focusing on business development, Hannah is passionate about promoting and growing participation in new business start-up ventures.
She plays an active role in building a vibrant business-to-business ecosystem in Suffolk to maximise the student experience and create expert mentorship opportunities within enterprise and entrepreneurship activities.
Hannah is eager to support you in exploring and developing your creative ideas as part of this exciting stage in your career journey.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/get-in-touch/people-directory/bece/hazel-thangadurai:
She is responsible for coordinating marketing and communications for the Careers, Employability and Enterprise (CEE) team.
She also provides essential administrative support to the team.
She develops and improves the marketing and communications of the CEE team, in all forms of the approved communication and publication channels of the university.
Hazel helps the CEE team to deliver consistent and engaging messaging to increase student uptake in university’s initiatives and activities.
She also creates social media, web and online content for the team ensuring the uniformed spirit and tone of the university’s support to the student community.
Prior to working at the University of Suffolk, for a brief period Hazel worked as an audit trainee for an accounting and business advisory firm.
Hazel graduated from the University of Essex in 2022 with an MSc.
in International Accounting and Banking.
During both her under graduation and Masters she was involved with various student engagement part time jobs such as a Resident Assistant and student ambassador.
She also worked as an administrator for the Communications and External Relations (CER) and as an Alumni Relations Officer for the Alumni Relations team at the University of Essex assisting university wide events such as Graduations.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/careers-employability-and-enterprise/useful-careers-resources:
Whether you’re looking for part-time work while you study, vacation work or internships, or graduate roles, you can make use of our range of resources, information and services to help you find the right job.
Handshake job search engine
University of Suffolk students (Ipswich Campus, East Coast College and Suffolk New College) have access to our dedicated Handshake search engine , to help you source potential work.
Handshake is a global platform featuring thousands of opportunities, and is an essential tool to support you through, and beyond, your time at Suffolk.
Recruitment agencies
Recruitment agencies recruit staff for employers.
They deal with all types of work and some specialise in specific types, for example, IT, manual or clerical jobs.
You need to register with each agency individually and have an up-to date CV.
We recommend you search for a recruitment agency via the Member Directory of the Recruitment and Employment Confederation (REC).
Reputable agencies should be registered with the REC, and you can search their list of agencies by specialism and location.
We recommend that when using agencies, you should not pay anything as consultancies charge the employers not the job candidates.
Watch out for hidden charges, however, for example, for training or CV checks.
Jobcentre Plus
The government agency offering job-seeking information and the Universal Jobmatch vacancy database of full-time and part-time work.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/careers-employability-and-enterprise/alumni-support:
As University of Suffolk Alumni, you may be on the road to identifying and establishing an inspiring and rewarding career, or many years into your career journey and looking to change direction.
We appreciate that whatever your current situation, sometimes you might want additional support in deciding what to do next, and that's why we are here to support you for life.
The Careers, Employability and Enterprise Service offers graduates:
As alumni, you are able to access our online personal and professional development platform, FutureMe.
From here, you can access thousands of online resources including:
You can access FutureMe here.
If you switched to Graduate Access on your account before you graduated, you can login using the personal email address you chose to complete this switch.
Just select 'Alumni' when logging into FutureMe .
If you have not switched, or are having problems logging in, please email careers@uos.ac.uk and the team will create your Alumni log in and answer your questions.
Prospects Prospects are the UK's largest graduate careers website, and provide a fantastic resource to find out more about graduate jobs and schemes, options for postgraduate study and funding, and paid internship opportunities.
They also provide lots of tips and information to help you when applying for jobs, including CV and covering letter examples, interview guidance and hints and tips to help you make your application stand out.
Careers Resources Repository
We have collected a wide range of generic and sector specific websites to support you with your future, available via the link above.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/funding-your-studies/cost-of-living-:
As a student, managing living costs can be a real challenge.
Between tuition fees, rent, food, textbooks, and other expenses, it can be hard to make your money last and this juggling act has only been made worse by the current cost-of-living crisis.
But, there are many practical ways to save money on living costs that can help you stretch your student budget or maintenance loan further.
Create a student budget and stick to it.
You need to know where your money is going.
Start by tracking your expenses for a few weeks and creating a budget.
This will help you see where you can cut back and where you can save money.
Here is an example budget with some budgeting tips:
Tip: A lot of accommodation will charge your first payment in August, before your student loan arrives in September!
So, you will need this in your savings by summer.
Tips:
Written by Maya Hull and Elliot Martin, students at the University of Suffolk

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/english-language-requirements:
If English is not your first language you may be asked to undertake an English Language assessment to prove your level of English, unless otherwise stated on your country page .
Normally, we would expect your English language qualification to be no more than two years old at the start date of your course.
English language qualifications older than this can only be considered on a case-by-case basis.
If you are required to apply for a Student Route visa to study in the UK you may be required to sit a Secure English Language Test (SELT) as part of the process of obtaining a Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS).
Some of our courses have different English Language requirements, so please check the boxes below to find out what scores you will need and which tests we can accept.
The Home Office (UKVI) defines certain countries as "Majority English Speaking Countries" and nationals from these countries are not normally required to obtain an English language qualification for entry to our courses.
Applicants who are nationals of these countries or have completed a qualification equivalent to a UK degree in one of them will automatically meet the UKVI Student Route visa requirements for English language, but the University may still require some evidence of English language ability to meet the general entrance requirements.
Visit the UKVI website for a list of majority English speaking countries.
If you are applying to study a Professional Health Programme such as; Adult Nursing, Child Health Nursing, Diagnostic Radiography, Mental Health Nursing, Operating Department Practice, Paramedic Science, Radiotherapy and Oncology or Social Work you are required to achieve the following:
If you have completed a degree-level qualification which meets, or exceeds, the recognised standard of a UK bachelor’s degree* and English was the medium of instruction, we may be able to waive our English language requirement if you provide us with your MoI letter.
Our ability to waive the English language requirement based on your completion of a degree taught in English is in line with the UKVI’s English language requirements for a Student visa.
Therefore, if you require a visa to study a degree in the UK, the UKVI does not require you to complete a Secure English Language Test (SELT) providing we are able to waive the English language requirement for your application following our assessment of your MOI letter.
MoI letters must be issued by a Registrar, Deputy Registrar, the Registrar's Office or Controller of Examinations (or equivalent).
MOI letters cannot be used for entry to our Professional Health programmes.
If your degree was awarded more than 10 years prior to your University of Suffolk course start date, we will not be able to accept your MoI letter.
If you do not have a MoI letter and your degree was awarded in the last five years, you may be able to use our English Language Test Waiver instead.
Please see below for more information.
*we use the services of ECCTIS (UK ENIC) to determine comparability to UK degree awards.
We can waive the need for a specific English language test where an applicant has one of the qualifications from an approved institution, taken within five years of your course start date.
See our full list of approved universities

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/life-at-suffolk/funding-your-studies/students-with-children-or-other-caring-responsibilities:
This grant is to help if there is an adult in your household that depends on you financially.
You may be eligible for up to £3354 a year (2023/2024 academic year) depending on your household income.
Find out more.
This is a means-tested grant to assist with childcare costs as a student if you have dependent children aged under 15 (or under 17 if they have special educational needs) in registered or approved childcare.
Depending on your household income, you can apply for up to a maximum 85% of your actual childcare costs during term time in academic years 1-3.
The grant is paid into a Childcare Grant Payment Service account (CCGPS), your childcare provider will send a request to the CCGPS and the money will then be paid directly to them.
In academic years 1 and 2, eligible students can apply for the childcare grant in the holidays to enable parent students to study, do voluntary work or an internship.
You can now apply for more than 2 children, however there is a maximum amount available.
You cannot apply for the childcare grant if you or your husband, wife or partner claims the childcare element of working Tax Credit or Universal Credit and you also cannot claim Tax-Free Childcare.
You can apply for this grant if you have dependent children.
This helps with extra costs associated with being a parent and a student.
You do not need to be paying childcare to be eligible.
You can get up to a maximum of £1915 a year (2023/2024 academic year), the grant is means assessed and depends on your household income.
These are available to students who have extra costs because of a disability, mental health condition, or specific learning difficulty.
DSAs can help pay for specific equipment, a non-medical helper, travel or other costs.
DSAs do not depend on household income.
How much DSA funding you will be eligible for depends entirely on your individual circumstances DSAs are paid directly for services and not to the individual student.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/international-student-advice:
Hi, I am Deepali, an international graduate of the University of Suffolk.
The journey as an international student is unique, everyones experiences differ.
This is especially true during the application process which can at times be confusing, and a little daunting.
Fortunately for me, the University of Suffolk were there at every stage of the process, offering support and guidance.
Plus, the international section of the University’s website has all the information you need on how to apply, getting settled in Suffolk and student testimonials sharing their experiences.
Finding the right course with the right modules for studies is very crucial.
Suffolk has several courses to offer with their unique style of research-informed, active, and independent learning.
Choose the course that meets your criteria, look at the modules, read the student profiles, and check the eligibility.
The University of Suffolk’s teaching is programmed in such a way that it gives us the flexibility to engage with the course at our own pace; research support and special tutorials are always there to assist students with extra requirements.
Special emphasis is given to group activities that enhance knowledge exchange and strengthen the teamwork amongst students.
Through workshops in collaboration with local businesses, students are provided with hands-on experience.
Another crucial element for international students to consider is the campus location.
The University of Suffolk is located on the picturesque Ipswich waterfront with on-campus accommodation, several restaurants, and cafés.
I have really enjoyed my morning and evening walks at the waterfront, and anyone interested in greenery and meditation will enjoy nearby parks like Christchurch and Holywells.
Buying groceries is easily done at nearby supermarkets, Tesco and Sainsbury’s, which also offer an online delivery service.
If you go to the Town Centre, a short 10-minute walk, then you can buy Indian spices from “Asian and Afro” too.
There are several fun entertainment places like Boom Battle Bar, Clip’n Climb, DanceEast, Wolsey Theatre, The Music Room, pubs, and clubs to enjoy an evening with friends.
Culturally, Ipswich town has a lot to offer.
I am glad I have experienced the heritage have enjoyed joining in celebrations and festivities organised regularly.
One of my favourites was the fireworks at Christchurch Park.
It was an amazing evening with music, fun and mesmerising fireworks at the end.
I have found everyone to be very welcoming and supportive.
The University has several initiatives available for the wellbeing of students and I would encourage anyone coming to Suffolk to be part of these groups.
I recently got the opportunity to be part of the “cost of living” project with the Students’ Union and I was impressed with their commitment to student welfare.
One of the concerns I had as an international student was managing my expenses.
But the University’s career counselling service help me secure a part-time job, and have lots of other initiatives from micro-placement jobs and the Student Ambassador Scheme, which provides students with paid work experience.
Suffolk is the best place to study, explore and have fun.
The University of Suffolk is a high-tech, inclusive, diverse community for students to study, learn, achieve their career goals, and transform their lives for the better.
As an international student, I give five stars to the University of Suffolk because of the course content, student support, diversity, facilities, location, and part-time work opportunities.
Deepali Thakur, MSc Data Science and Artificial Intelligence
Book a 1-2-1 meeting and ask a member of the international team all the questions you have.
Or join us at one of our live webinars, as we welcome guest speakers from across the University of Suffolk to talk about our programmes and life as a student in the UK.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/education-agents:
The University of Suffolk works with education agents, also known as representatives, to support prospective students with their application to study abroad.
Education agents are appointed by universities to offer information, advice and guidance to students searching for the right institution and course as well as helping students throughout the application and UK visa and immigration processes.
Some education agents will charge a fee for their services, and we recommend that you clarify all charges in advance to understand what this fee includes.
Future students of the University of Suffolk are recommended to check whether an education agent is an official representative of our University before applying.
Our contracted education agents undergo regular training to ensure the information they provide future students is accurate.
We also monitor the ongoing performance of our agents and welcome feedback from students that have used one of our agents.
Any deposits or tuition fees must be paid directly to the University of Suffolk and not sent via a representative.
The University of Suffolk pays a referral fee to agents that successfully support students through to enrolment.
This fee is based on a percentage of the students first year tuition fee.
This fee recognises the service provided by the agent to students.
Use of an agent’s services does not influence the chance of students being accepted to study at the University of Suffolk.
It’s important to choose the education agent that is right for you.
W e recommend checking our list of official agents online as these companies have been vetted by the University of Suffolk and they meet our minimum standards .
Support varies by agent, with some having an in-person presence and some using digital channels to connect with students .
W e recommend doing thorough research to choose the agent that best fits your needs .
Compliance and Complaints
The University of Suffolk holds its representatives to high standards to ensure that students are well supported and protected from malpractice.
We expect our agents to provide accurate and up-to-date information and conduct themselves with integrity.
The University of Suffolk has signed the UK Agent Quality Framework pledge to demonstrate our commitment to ensuring our agents are held to high standards and offer quality support to applicants.
If you want to raise a complaint about one of our contracted agents, please follow the guidance in our Applicant Appeals and Complaints Procedure .
If you have any questions regarding our work with agents, please get in touch .
We work with agents from a wide range of countries .
To find an agent operating in your country, visit your country page .
Master agen ts , or aggregators, are large companies that manage relationships with smaller agents , also known a s sub-agents .
If you are being supported by a sub-agent, we recommend that you confirm their affiliation with one of our approved agen ts.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/study-abroad:
All enquiries about student exchange opportunities (staff and student) should be directed to:

Jemma Stock - Study Abroad Adviser
Tel:+44 147333844
studyabroad@uos.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/course-dates-and-holidays:
Please note that these dates may differ from the official course start and end dates, as they refer specifically to the teaching delivery period.
These dates are provided to support discussions with employers regarding work hours, ensuring alignment with the UKVI work permissions for students on a student-sponsored visa.
15.03.2025- 30.03.2025
07.06.2025-03.08.2025
13-09-2025 29-09-2025
These breaks apply to all courses and programs.
Course End: At the end of the programme visa students may only work full-time hours when the course end date listed in their CAS letter has passed.
For further guidance, please see the UKCISA website: Working after studies for international students

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/interact-with-us/international-mba-webinar-:
Head to our International MBA course page to learn more about course structure, facilities and career opportunities.
Learn more >
Go a question about your course or studying at the University of Suffolk, complete our enquirer form and get the answers you need.
Complete the form >

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/interact-with-us/msc-applied-cyber-security-webinar:
Dr Chris Lewington, Lecturer and Course Leader, shares everything about the MSc in Applied Cyber Security.
Head to our MSc Applied Cyber Security course page to learn more about course structure, facilities and career opportunities.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/interact-with-us/msc-computer-science-webinar:
Due to our continued development of courses the title of our MSc Advanced Computing has now changed to MSc Computer Science.
This change of title has been made to align with contemporary perspectives and improve students' chances of employability considering other universities offering similar courses within the East Anglia region and the UK.
Head to our MSc Computer Science course page to learn more about course structure, facilities and career opportunities.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/interact-with-us/msc-data-science-and-ai-webinar:
Head to our MSc Data Science and AI course page to learn more about course structure, facilities and career opportunities.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/interact-with-us/msc-international-business-and-management-:
Lecturer Dr Keith Hotchkiss talks us through the key elements of the MSc International Business and Management programme.
Head to our MSc International Business and Management course page to learn more about course structure, facilities and career opportunities.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/interact-with-us/msc-stategic-people-management-webinar:
Head to our MSc Strategic People Management course page to learn more about course structure, facilities and career opportunities.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/interact-with-us/suffolk-executive-mba-webinar:
Course Leader and Senior Lecturer Dr Ross Kemble takes us through the details of the Suffolk Executive MBA.
Head to our Suffolk Executive MBA course page to learn more about course structure, facilities and career opportunities.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/get-in-touch/people-directory/marketing-communications-and-international/mike-thompson:
A marketing professional with global experience leading diverse teams to deliver marketing campaigns which achieve positive return on investment.
Experienced in marketing across many sectors including fast moving consumer goods/drinks, energy, higher education, charities and financial services.
In March 2025 Mike moved from the role of Associate Director of Marketing to the role of Associate Director of International.
Marketing Branding Strategic planning
Marketing consultancy.
Leadership of Carlsberg's global brand marketing, across 226 countries.
Leadership of E.ON's marketing across 13 countries.
Leadership of Barclays sponsorship of Premier League globally.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/chris-panayi:
Chris joined the University of Suffolk in May 2023 as Senior International Marketing Officer.
As part of the International Team, he works to raise the profile of the University’s brand overseas with prospective students, key influencers, recruitment agents and schools and universities with the goal to increase the number of international students enrolling at the University of Suffolk.
Graduating in 2016 from De Montfort University with a bachelor’s degree in Media and Communications, Chris built up a strong understanding and knowledge of marketing, brand management and communication by working in a range of industries including travel and tourism, charity and education.
Through these roles Chris also developed digital skills including graphics design and web development, which he utilises to effectively communicate the University’s brand.
Chris has returned to the world of Higher Education, with previous experience marketing foundation courses to aspiring international students wanting to go on to study at a UK university.
Excited by the development of the University of Suffolk and the focus on incorporating an international aspect in all areas of the University, Chris is passionate to grow the success of the International Team.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/jessica-garrity:
Jess originally joined the External Relations team as a Student Recruitment Officer in 2021, and joined the International team in January 2022.
In her role, she is working to connect with students across the world to help them navigate the process of becoming an international student at the University of Suffolk, and to grow the University's presence in international higher education.
Jessica graduated in 2019 with a bachelor's degree in Spanish and TESOL and in 2021 with a master's in TESOL and Applied Linguistics.
During her time at Manchester Metropolitan University, she undertook an internship within the International Office in International Events and Study Abroad.
Previously, she has worked as an English teacher in both Spain and South Korea.
She is currently studying at the University of Suffolk for her PhD in Education, using eye-tracking technology to investigate how students with English as an additional language read academic texts in English and how to shape academic English teaching standards across the sector.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/get-in-touch/people-directory/marketing-communications-and-international/stephanie-akinyi:
Stephanie has worked in Higher Education since 2013, having worked with two other UK Universities before joining University of Suffolk in August 2023.
She carries with her a diverse work record that entails international student recruitment, market research, events planning, business and partnership's development.
Her current role as Senior International Officer not only includes helping international students from various parts of the world, but also involves advancing the international reputation of the University among stakeholders.
Stephanie graduated with a bachelor's degree in Communication specialization in Public Relations.
Her passion in Education is fueled by transformative effect it has on people's lives.
IC3 Advocate

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/jemma-stock:
Some of you may have been in contact with Jemma to arrange your study abroad in Ipswich.
Jemma is looking forward to meeting you in person and welcoming you to the University of Suffolk.
Jemma graduated from the University of Northampton with a BA (Hons) degree in European Business.
She has worked in higher education since 2000, firstly working for the University of Luton as International Exchanges Officer and then in 2006 she moved to Suffolk College as a Course Administrator, then onto UCS.
Jemma is now working as a Study Abroad Adviser within Academic Partnerships, supporting the incoming and outgoing students and staff on exchange with the Erasmus programme.
Jemma is passionate about student exchange and spent a year on exchange studying at the University of Florence, Italy as part of her degree.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/how-to-apply/application-pathway-undergraduate:
Applications for full-time undergraduate courses should be submitted through the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS) .
You can apply for up to five courses, these can be five courses from a single university or across different institutions.
However, we would encourage all applicants to research course content carefully before making their final choices.
University of Suffolk Institution Code: S82
Please ensure that the Institution Code above is entered clearly on your application form, together with the code for the course you wish to apply for, which can be found on the course's webpage.
Use our course search to find your Course Code.
You should aim to submit your application by the UCAS equal consideration deadline in January each year; however, applications received after this date will still be considered subject to the availability of spaces on your chosen course.
An up - to - date list of current vacancies is available on the UCAS website.
The UCAS application fee for 2025 is currently £28.50 for up to five choices .
Some of our courses have different admission and selection criteria, such as interviews or portfolio reviews.
Visit the entry requirements section on the relevant course page to learn more about any additional requirements.
Further guidance about how to apply and write your personal statement can be found on the UCAS website.
Our in-country agents are able to help you through your application to the University of Suffolk.
Once you have applied, and if you meet our entry requirements, we hope to issue you with an offer.
To accept your offer you will need to login to your UCAS Hub.
We advise you to read all the terms of your offer carefully before accepting your offer.
You must pay a minimum £5,000 CAS deposit if applying for the January 2025 intake .

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/how-to-apply/teacher-training:
Students wishing to apply for the Professional Graduate Certificate in Education (PGCE) programmes must apply through our direct application form .
For further information about the PGCE programme, please see the course page .
Applications for School Centred Initial Teaching Training (SCITT) PGCE programmes must be submitted through the Government portal .

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/algeria:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Algeria including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
Have a specific question in mind?
Contact our International Student Advice team.
We also run regular webinar sessions to help get you ready for life in Suffolk.
For direct entry to undergraduate degree programmes, applicants are required to have one of the following qualifications:
For entry onto a postgraduate course, applicants are required to have:
Holders of the Licence Diplôme d'Études Supérieures, or Diplôme d'Ingénieur / Diplôme d'Architecte d'État with a grade of 12 or higher
If English is not your first language, you may need to provide evidence of your English language ability as part of your application.
The most commonly known assessments for this that we accept are;
Please see our English Language page for further details of requirements for your course.
The University of Suffolk works with educational agencies in Algeria who will be able to guide you through your application to study at the University of Suffolk.
We currently work with the following agency:
To reward high calibre candidates, we are offering a range of generous scholarships to international fee-paying students joining us in the 2025/26 academic year.
View all our scholarships

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/angola:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Angola including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
A good UK equivalent bachelor degree from a recognised institution

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/benin:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Benin including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
For entry onto an undergraduate course, applicants are required to have one of the following qualifications:
We can accept these qualifications when completed at one of Benin's four public universities: Université d'Abomey-Calavi, University of Kétou, University of Parakou and Université Nationale des Sciences, Technologies, Ingénierie et Mathématiques.
Graduates from private institutions are required to also present a statement from the Beninese Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research to confirm that the program studied was accredited at the time of award.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/botswana:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Botswana including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/cameroon:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Cameroon including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
For entry onto an undergraduate degree, applicants are required to have one of the following qualifications:
The University of Suffolk works with educational agencies in Cameroon who will be able to guide you through your application to study with us.
We currently work with the following agency:

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/egypt:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Egypt including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
We work with educational agencies in Egypt who will be able to guide you through your application to study with us.
We currently work with the following agencies:

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/ethiopia-:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Ethiopia including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/ghana:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Ghana including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
We work with educational agencies in Ghana who will be able to guide you through your application to study with us.
We currently work with the following agencies:

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/kenya-:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Kenya including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
We work with educational agencies in Kenya who will be able to guide you through your application to study with us.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/malawi-:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Malawi including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/mauritius-:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Mauritius including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/morocco-:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Morocco including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
We work with educational agencies in Morocco who will be able to guide you through your application to study with us.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/namibia-:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Namibia including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
Cambridge Overseas Higher School Certificate (COHSC)/GCE A level with BBB-BCC grades

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/nigeria-:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Nigeria including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
We work with educational agencies in Nigeria who will be able to guide you through your application to study with us.
Ufuoma has worked as a research associate within many of the University’s institutes and is currently working with the Institute of Sustainability on her PhD - Learn, Unlearn and Relearn into a Sustainable Future: Sustainability Consciousness in Nigeria.
As part of her PhD, she is researching the environmental policies and laws in Nigeria, identifying the loopholes, and finding ways to bridge the sustainability gap within Nigeria.
Earlier this year, Ufuoma became a member of Catalyst2030 – a global movement of social change innovators committed to advancing the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by 2030.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/south-africa-:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from South Africa including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
Applicants with a Bachelor (Hons) degree from a recognised institution in South Africa with a 2:2 0r 53% and above to be considered

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/tanzania-:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Tanzania including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
We work with educational agencies in Tanzania who will be able to guide you through your application to study with us.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/tunisia-:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Tunisia including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/uganda-:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Uganda including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
Applicants with an East African Advanced Certificate of Education/ and a Advanced Certificate of Education to be considered on the same basis as UK A-Level applicants
Cambridge Overseas Higher School Certificate (COHSC)
We work with educational agencies in Uganda who will be able to guide you through your application to study with us.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/zambia-:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Zambia including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
The University of Suffolk works with educational agencies in Zambia who will be able to guide you through your application to study at the University of Suffolk.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/zimbabwe-:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Zimbabwe including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
We work with educational agencies in Zimbabwe who will be able to guide you through your application to study with us.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/afghanistan:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Afghanistan including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/bangladesh:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Bangladesh including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
For entry onto a postgraduate course, applicants are required to have one of the following qualifications:
The University of Suffolk works with educational agencies in Bangladesh who will be able to guide you through your application to study at the University of Suffolk.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/brunei:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Brunei including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
a good UK equivalent bachelors degree from a recognised university.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/china:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from China including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
For entry onto an undergraduate degree, applicants are required to have one of the following qualifications:
For entry onto a postgraduate degree, applicants are required to have:
We work with educational agencies in China who will be able to guide you through your application to study with us.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/hong-kong:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Hong Kong including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
We work with educational agencies in Hong Kong who will be able to guide you through your application to study with us.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/india:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from India including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
The University of Suffolk accepts a number of Standard XII qualifications as proof of English proficiency.
Please see below for the required scores.
We work with educational agencies in India who will be able to guide you through your application to study with us.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/indonesia:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Indonesia including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
We work with educational agencies across Indonesia who will be able to guide you through your application to study with us.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/iran:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Iran including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
The University of Suffolk works with educational agencies in Jordan who will be able to guide you through your application to study at the University of Suffolk.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/japan-:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Japan including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
Minimum grade C from a Bachelor's degree (Gakushi)
We work with educational agencies across Japan who will be able to guide you through your application to study with us.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/kazakhstan:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Kazakhstan including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/macau:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Macau including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/malaysia-:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Malaysia including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
We work with educational agencies in Malaysia who will be able to guide you through your application to study with us.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/mongolia-:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Mongolia including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
For entry onto an undergraduate degree, applicants are required to have the following qualification:
a good UK equivalent Bachelors Degree or Specialist Diploma from a recognised university.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/myanmar-:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Myanmar including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
Bachelors degre from a recoginsed institution with a 2:2 or equivalent

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/nepal-:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Nepal including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
We work with educational agencies in Nepal who will be able to guide you through your application to study with us.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/pakistan-:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Pakistan including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
We work with educational agencies across Pakistan who will be able to guide you through your application to study with us.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/philippines-:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from the Philippines including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
We work with educational agencies in the Philippines who will be able to guide you through your application to study with us.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/singapore-:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Singapore including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
For entry onto a postgraduate course, applicants are required to have the following:
The University of Suffolk works with educational agencies in Singapore who will be able to guide you through your application to study at the University of Suffolk.
For applicants completing their Singaporean National Service and seeking a deferred application, please see our Admissions Policy
Admissions Policy

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/south-korea-:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from South Korea including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
Bachelor's (Haksa) degree from a recognised institution with GPA of 2.5 out of 4.0 or Grades C+ or 75% and above depending on the subject area

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/sri-lanka-:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Sri Lanka including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
We work with educational agencies across Sri Lanka who will be able to guide you through your application to study with us.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/taiwan:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Taiwan including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
A relevant four year Bachelor's degree from a recognised institution with an overall GPA of 2.75 out of 4.0 or 65% depending on the subject area.
For some subjects a GPA of 2.4 (60%) may be accepted
The University of Suffolk works with educational agencies in Taiwan who will be able to guide you through your application to study at the University of Suffolk.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/thailand:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Thailand including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
We work with educational agencies across Thailand who will be able to guide you through your application to study with us.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/uzbekistan-:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Uzbekistan including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
We work with educational agencies across Uzbekistan who will be able to guide you through your application to study with us.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/vietnam-:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Vietnam including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
We work with educational agencies in Vietnam who will be able to guide you through your application to study with us.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/australia:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Australia including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
- Australian Capital Territory ACT Year 12 Certificate - New South Wales: Higher School Certificate - Northern Territory Certificate of Education - Queensland Senior Certificate - South Australia Certificate of Education - Tasmanian Certificate of Education - Western Australia Certificate of Education
For entry onto a postgraduate course, applicants are required to have one of the following:
Applicants from Australia are not required to meet the Home Office Student Route visa requirements for English language, but the University may still require some evidence of English language ability to meet the general entrance requirements.
We work with educational agencies in Australia who will be able to guide you through your application to study with us.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/new-zealand-:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from New Zealand including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
We work with educational agencies in New Zealand who will be able to guide you through your application to study with us.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/armenia:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Armenia including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
Diplom bakalavri astichan/ Diplom masnageti with good result from a recognised University

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/austria:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Austria including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
Holders of the Reifeprüfung/MATURA (Matriculation Examination) or Reife und Diplomprüfung / Matura from Berufsbildende Höhere Schulen (BHS) or a Reifeprüfung / Matura from Allgemeinbildende Höhere Schulen with min grade 2.6.
will be considered for admission to Bachelor degree courses
Diplomastudium / Magister / Fachhochschuldiplom with a minimum grade of befriedigent

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/belgium:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Belgium including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
Diploma van secundair onderwijs or Certificat d’Einseignement Secondaire Supérieur, or Brevet van de Aanvullende Secundaire Bereopschool with 6/10 will be considered for admission
Bachelor (post 2004) Licentiaat / Licencie with a minimum grade of 60%

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/bulgaria:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Bulgaria including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
We work with educational agencies in Bulgaria who will be able to guide you through your application to study with us.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/croatia:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Croatia including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
We work with educational agencies in Croatia who will be able to guide you through your application to study with us.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/cyprus:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Cyprus including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
6.5 or above from Bachelor degree/Ptychio.
We work with educational agencies in Cyprus who will be able to guide you through your application to study with us.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/czechia:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Czechia including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/denmark:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Denmark including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
Bevis for Højere Forberedelseseksamen, Bevis for Højere Handelseksamen (HHX) / Bevis for Højere Teknisk Eksamen (HTX) or Bevis for Studentereksamen with an overall grade above 7 depending on the course.
9 or above Bachelors degree (pre-2007) - 7 or above Bachelors degree (post-2007) =  2:2

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/estonia:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Estonia including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/european-baccalaureate:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from the European Baccalaureate including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
For direct entry to undergraduate degree programmes, applicants are required to achieve an:
Overall average score of 65% 6.5/10

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/finland:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Finland including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
Ylioppilastutkinto / Studentexamen with an overall grade above 4.
3 (1-5 scale) 1 (1-3 scale) - Satisfactory = 2:2

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/france:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from France including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
Baccalauréat or Option Internationale du Baccalauréat with a minimum of 11/20 or above
Baccalauréat Professionnel (BacPro) may be considered for entry to a Bachelors programme minimum of 11 /20 or above
For entry onto a postgraduate course, applicants will need to have completed one of the following qualifications:

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/germany:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Germany including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
The University of Suffolk works with educational agencies in Germany who will be able to guide you through your application to study at the University of Suffolk.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/greece-:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Greece including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
The University of Suffolk works with educational agencies in Greece who will be able to guide you through your application to study at the University of Suffolk.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/hungary-:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Hungary including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/ireland:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Ireland including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
For entry onto a postgraduate degree, applicants are required to have:
2.2 or above from Bachelor degree.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/italy:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Italy including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/latvia-:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Latvia including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
C = 6 = 2:2 from bachelor's degree (post-2002 Bakalaur Diploms)

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/lithuania-:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Lithuania including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/luxembourg-:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Luxembourg including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/netherlands:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from the Netherlands including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/norway-:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Norway including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/poland-:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Poland including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
We work with educational agencies in Poland who will be able to guide you through your application to study with us.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/portugal:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Portugal including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
For entry onto a postgraduate course, applicants are required to have on of the following:
We work with educational agencies in Portugal who will be able to guide you through your application to study with us.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/romania-:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Romania including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
For direct entry to postgraduate degree programmes, applicants are required to have one of the following qualifications:
We work with educational agencies in Romania who will be able to guide you through your application to study with us.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/russia:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Russia including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/serbia-:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Serbia including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
a good UK equivalent bachelors degree from a recognised university
The University of Suffolk works with educational agencies in Serbia who will be able to guide you through your application to study at the University of Suffolk.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/slovakia-:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Slovakia including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/slovenia-:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Slovenia including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
Maturitetno spričevalo with an overall grade with a minimum of 3.0 depending on the course
Applicants with a Diploma o pridobljeni univerzitetni izobrazbi (University Degree ) with a grade of 7.0 and above to be considered for entry to postgraduate programs

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/spain:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Spain including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/sweden:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Sweden including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
For direct entry to undergraduate degree programmes, applicants are required to have the following qualification:
Avgångsbetyg / Slutbetyg från Gymnasieskola with a minimum of 14
CCCCCC to be considered for entry into year 1of our Bachelor degree courses
2:2 or equivalent in a Bachelors degree from a recognised University

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/switzerland-:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Switzerland including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/turkey-:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Turkey including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
We work with educational agencies in Turkey who will be able to guide you through your application to study with us.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/ukraine-:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Ukraine including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
The University of Suffolk works with educational agencies in Ukraine who will be able to guide you through your application to study at the University of Suffolk.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/azerbaijan:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Azerbaijan including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
The University of Suffolk works with educational agencies in Azerbaijan who will be able to guide you through your application to study at the University of Suffolk.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/bahrain:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Bahrain including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
Bachelor's degree with a GPA of 2.5/4 or higher.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/iraq:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Iraq including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
Bachelor's degree at 60% = 2:2

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/israel-:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Israel including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
Bachelor's with 65% or higher

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/jordan-:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Jordan including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
Bachelors degree with an overall CGPA of 2.5 or above

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/kuwait-:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Kuwait including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
The University of Suffolk works with educational agencies in Kuwait who will be able to guide you through your application to study at the University of Suffolk.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/lebanon-:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Lebanon including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/oman:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Oman including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
Bachelors degree from a reputable Omani institution with scores of GPA 2.4 and above

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/qatar:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Qatar including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
Bachelors degree with a GPA of 2.2 out of 4.0 or 2.8 out of 5.0 from a recognised university
The University of Suffolk works with educational agencies in Qatar who will be able to guide you through your application to study at the University of Suffolk.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/saudi-arabia-:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Saudi Arabia including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
We work with educational agencies in Saudi Arabia who will be able to guide you through your application to study with us.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/united-arab-emirates-:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from United Arab Emirates including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
A bachelors degree from a recogised institution in UAE institution with scores of C, 2.5 GPA, 75% or Good
The University of Suffolk works with educational agencies in the United Arab Emirates who will be able to guide you through your application to study at the University of Suffolk.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/anguilla:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Anguilla including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/antigua-and-barbuda:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Antigua and Barbuda including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/bahamas:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from the Bahamas including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/barbados:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Barbados including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/bermuda:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Bermuda including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/canada:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Canada including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
The University of Suffolk works with educational agencies in Canada who will be able to guide you through your application to study at the University of Suffolk.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/cayman-islands:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from the Cayman Islands including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/jamaica:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Jamaica including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
Caribbean Advanced Proficiency Examination (CAPE) - 3 double units with a minimum grade of III
Bachelor degree (when accredited by the University Council of Jamaica or awarded by the Council of Community Colleges of Jamaica) 2.0/4

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/mexico:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Mexico including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
The University of Suffolk works with educational agencies in Mexico who will be able to guide you through your application to study at the University of Suffolk.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/trinidad-and-tobago-:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Trinidad and Tobago including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/usa-:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from the USA including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
ACT College Code: 8060.
For more information on sharing your ACT scores with us, please check the ACT guidance.
The University of Suffolk works with educational agencies in the USA who will be able to guide you through your application to study at the University of Suffolk.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/argentina:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Argentina including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
6 or higher in Licenciatura o Titulo

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/bolivia:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Bolivia including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
Titulo de licenciado minimum 64%.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/brazil:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Brazil including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
Bacharel / Licenciado / Titulo Profissional title (minimum 4 years) with 6.0 on a scale of 1-10, B/C or Bom/Regular.
The University of Suffolk works with educational agencies in Brazil who will be able to guide you through your application to study at the University of Suffolk.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/chile:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Chile including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
Licenciatura/professional title awarded after four or more years of study with a grade-point average higher than 4

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/colombia:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Colombia including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
A Licenciado or Título Profesional when awarded after four years of study or more - 3.0 - Sufficient / good
We work with educational agencies in Colombia who will be able to guide you through your application to study with us.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/ecuador:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Ecuador including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
Titulo de licenciado with 70 or 7/10

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/paraguay-:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Paraguay including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
A recoginsed bachelors degree with 70% or 3.0 and above Licenciado

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/peru-:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Peru including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
A recoginsed bachelors degree with 11/20 and above Licenciado

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/uruguay-:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Uruguay including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/countries/venezuela-:
Here you will find lots of useful information for students from Venezuela including entry and English language requirements, scholarships and funding information, and where you can meet our representatives in-country.
10/20 or 3.0/5 or 4/9 bachelors degree from a recognised University

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/jon-ward:
Jon joined the Admissions Team in February 2015.
His main responsibilities as an Admissions Assistant include screening applications, making offers to applicants and responding to general admissions enquiries.
Jon has since been promoted to an Admissions Officer, and is responsible for issuing CAS to Tier 4 visa students and will likely contact you if you have indicated you need a visa to study in the UK.
Before joining the University, Jonathan completed a BA (Hons) American Studies degree at the University of Hull, including an exchange year at Western Washington University.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/becky-holifield:
Becky joined the University of Suffolk as an Admissions Adviser in November 2020, where her role was to screen applications, make offers and respond to general Admissions enquiries.
She was promoted to her current role of Admissions Officer in June 2022.
As an Admissions Officer, Becky has a primary focus on international applications and is responsible for issuing CAS to applicants who require a student visa.
Becky completed a degree in BA (Hons) Drama, Theatre & Performance Studies and English Literature at the University of Roehampton in 2016.
Since completing her degree she has had a varied background with work experience in the retail, finance and entertainment industries.
She also spent some time travelling before returning home to Suffolk and joining the Admissions team.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/jessica-hollinsworth:
Jessica joined the University of Suffolk as Admissions Advisor in December 2021 and has since been promoted to Admissions Officer in March 2023 specialising in international Admissions to the university.
Her role involves helping home and international applicants through their higher education journey from submission of their application to enrolment.
Jessica has completed a Bachelor's degree in English from The University of Suffolk in 2015 and went on to complete a Masters degree in Gender Studies 2022 at UEA.
In her spare time Jessica is interested in going to festivals, reading lots of literature books, cooking new vegetarian recipes and bird spotting!

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/maggie-powell:
Maggie joined the Admissions Team as an Admissions Adviser in April 2022 and is currently working as an Admissions Officer with a specific focus on International Applicants.
With a previous background in Commercial Recruitment and Venue & Event Management, she particularly enjoys interactions with prospective students and is always happy to answer questions whether that be on the telephone or in person at one of the University Open Days.
As the mother of three grown-up children, she is very clear that there is no such thing as a stupid question when making the decision to apply to University!

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/apply-for-your-cas:
A Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) is a unique number which confirms that you have been accepted on to a course in the UK and is issued to you by your university.
You will need a CAS to submit your Student visa application .
On this page we will explain how you can apply for your CAS with the University of Suffolk .
The CAS application begins after you have accepted an unconditional offer to study with us.
If you hold a conditional offer, you will not be invited to begin your CAS application until you have met your offer conditions.
It is only possible to submit a Student visa application up to six months before your course start date.
If you have accepted an unconditional offer to study with us and your course start date is more than six months away, you may not hear from us right away about your CAS application.
When you have accepted an unconditional offer to study with us and passed a pre-CAS interview, you will be invited to pay your CAS deposit.
A CAS deposit confirms your commitment to study with us and allows us to begin the process of issuing your CAS.
The CAS deposit amount is £5,000.
If you hold a conditional offer, you will not be invited to pay your CAS deposit until you have met your offer conditions.
We use Flywire for CAS deposit payments, which allows you to securely pay and track your payment online with ease.
If Flywire is not available in your region, an alternative payment method can be offered.
CAS Deposit Top Tip #1: Once you have passed your pre-CAS interview, do not delay paying your CAS deposit.
CAS Deposit Top Tip #2: You can pay up to your full first year’s tuition fee as your CAS deposit.
Any fees paid to the university as a CAS deposit will be shown on your CAS letter as tuition fees that you’ve already paid.
Once you have accepted an unconditional offer to study with us and your course start date is approximately six months away, you will receive an invitation to start a CAS application within CAS Shield – our self-service online portal.
CAS Shield allows you to track and complete all the steps required to receive a CAS.
CAS Shield also allows you to communicate directly with the Admissions team who are assessing your CAS application.
In CAS Shield, you will initially be invited to create a password for your account and to confirm some information via a checklist including; your name and date of birth, the course you will be studying, your passport details and your contact information.
You will also be asked about your previous immigration history and how you will be funding your UK studies.
Once you have completed the checklist, you will be able to continue with your CAS application by completing the following stages:
Here you will provide copies of any documents to support your CAS application including your passport, certificates, transcripts and tuberculosis (TB) test results (if applicable).
The exact documents that you will be required to provide will be confirmed in your CAS Shield account once activated.
You may be asked to provide copies of documents for your CAS application that you have already provided during your course application.
You may need a TB test to enter the UK.
Visit the government’s website to confirm whether you will need a TB test for your application and where to obtain a valid TB test from.
We cannot accept TB test certificates from clinics that do not appear on the UKVI website.
Please ensure you upload your TB test certificate to CAS Shield as soon as you have obtained it.
If you require an Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS) certificate to study, you will need to obtain this before applying for your Student visa.
Visit the government’s website for further information on ATAS requirements .
A copy of your ATAS certificate should be uploaded to CAS Shield as soon as you have obtained it.
General Documents Top Tip: Do not upload any password protected files to CAS Shield as we will not be able to see them, and this may delay the progress of your application.
Here you will upload your financial documents such as bank statements, CAS deposit payment confirmation, parental consent to use funds or loan letters.
Please see the financial evidence section below for detailed guidance.
The questionnaire asks you to confirm details about your study plans including why you have chosen to study in the UK and at University of Suffolk, why you have chosen your course, where you intend to live while studying and what your post-study plans are.
You must answer all questions honestly and in as much detail as possible.
You will be invited to attend a Pre-CAS interview.
The pre-CAS interview is our way of ensuring that we are confident to sponsor your Student visa application.
You will be able to complete your pre-CAS interview within the CAS Shield platform at a time convenient for you.
We expect applicants to complete their pre-CAS interview within 30 days of being invited to join the CAS Shield platform.
However, in some cases this will be subject to other relevant CAS deadlines and applicants entering CAS Shield in late Spring or early Summer may have less time to complete their interview.
We advise you to check our How to Apply page frequently for any published CAS deadlines.
If the pre-CAS interview is not completed within 30 days of your CAS Shield invitation being sent, we reserve the right to close your CAS Shield application and withdraw your offer.
You will only have one opportunity to pass the interview, so it is essential that you prepare before attending your interview.
Refer to the ‘What is a Pre-CAS Interview’ section below to learn more about this important step.
If you fail to satisfactorily complete any of these required steps, it will prevent us from issuing your CAS.
Once you have approved your draft CAS letter, your CAS will be issued to you by email.
You will then be able to begin your online visa application.
Visit our Visas and Immigration page for more information about the visa application process.
You will be invited to attend a Pre-Arrival webinar with our International Advice team in the weeks leading up to induction and enrolment.
To learn more about arrivals or to get in touch with our International Advice team, visit our Getting Ready to Study webpages.
For a guided tutorial on using CAS Shield, please click here .
All applicants will be invited to a Pre-CAS Interview as part of their CAS application.
We use this interview to assess your credibility to study in the UK and this will determine whether we are able to issue your CAS.
This is your opportunity to show that you have thoroughly researched the University of Suffolk, your course and have thought about how studying at the University of Suffolk will help meet your career goals.
It is important to provide detailed answers wherever possible.
Some of the questions will be designed to check your English language proficiency.
Your interview will be conducted via an automated service within CAS Shield.
You will be presented with a series of on-screen questions and given a set amount of time to respond.
Your answers will be recorded and submitted to the Admissions team for assessment.
We expect you to have already researched your university options before applying to us.
However, when preparing for your interview you may wish to consider the following topics:
Why you have chosen to study in the UK
Why you have chosen to study your course
How this course relates to your previous studies or employment
Why you have chosen to study at University of Suffolk
Where you will live during your studies (accommodation)
Where the university is located
What are you looking forward to about your course/studying here
How your chosen subject will support your overall career plans
How you intend to pay for your studies
We understand that not everyone enjoys the interview experience.
Therefore, we encourage you to prepare for your interview by reflecting on the questions above and doing further research if you feel there are any topics that you would not feel confident answering during an interview.
Please ensure you have familiarised yourself with the course information on our website as well as the facilities available on campus .
We will expect you to be able to give several reasons/examples in your answers.
If there is anything you would like to know about the university before you attend your interview that you cannot find on our website, please feel free to ask us.
However, please be aware that we cannot share with you the exact questions that you will be asked at interview.
You are required to bring your passport to your Pre-CAS interview.
An identification check will be completed at the beginning of your interview where you will be asked to present the photo page of your passport to the camera.
The use of AI during the pre-CAS interview will not be tolerated and is strictly forbidden.
Suspected use of AI during a pre-CAS interview will result in a failed interview.
If your Pre-CAS Interview is successful, you will be notified via CAS Shield.
If your Pre-CAS interview is unsuccessful, we will notify you accordingly and your application will be withdrawn.
We aim to provide you with a decision on your Pre-CAS interview within 7 days of the recording date.
This timeframe may vary during peak processing periods.
Pre-CAS Interview Top Tip #1: Complete your Pre-CAS Questionnaire first.
Although most of the stages in CAS Shield can be completed in any order, we urge you to complete your Pre-CAS Questionnaire before attending your Pre-CAS Interview.
The Questionnaire will help you prepare for your interview.
Other interview tips:
Watch a live demonstration of the Pre-CAS interview to help you prepare.
The UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) require you to have sufficient funds to pay for the first year of your course and your living costs.
The UKVI requires students studying outside of London to have £1,136 per month (for up to nine months) to cover their living expenses.
Your financial evidence will need to show you have your remaining tuition fees for the academic year, minus your CAS deposit, in addition to £10,224 for your living expenses.
The UKVI requires students studying in London to have £1,483 per month (for up to nine months) to cover their living expenses.
Your financial evidence will need to show you have your remaining tuition fees for the academic year, minus your CAS deposit, in addition to £13,347 for your living expenses.
You must have this money in your account for at least 28 consecutive days .
The end date of the 28-day period must be within 31 days of the date you apply for your visa, unless you are applying with a Student loan.
Please read the UKVI’s guidance for more information about the money you need and how to prove it.
As part of your CAS application, we will ask you to submit your financial evidence to us so we can check that it meets the UKVI’s requirements for the Student visa.
If your evidence does not meet the UKVI’s requirements, we will not be able to issue your CAS.
Please ensure that your bank statements and other financial evidence are current when you submit them to us.
When preparing your financial evidence, please use the OANDA currency converter to determine the GBP (£) value of your funds if they are held in another currency.
OANDA is the only currency converter that the UKVI will use when assessing your funds and will only use the conversion rate stated on the date of your visa application when reviewing your financial evidence.
Only ever submit financial evidence to us that you intend to submit with your Student visa application.
Financial Evidence Top Tip #1: Prepare your funds early.
Remember that your funds must be held in an account for the full 28 days before it meets the UKVI’s requirements.
Financial Evidence Top Tip #2: Once your full funds are in your evidence account – leave them there for 28 days!
If your funds fall below the required amount (your course fee + maintenance) at any time during the 28 days - even if you top your funds up again in the same day - the timer resets and you must wait another 28 days for your funds to mature.
Financial Documentation Guidance
Applicants must provide affidavits/official change of name documents for all name variations between passports, birth certificates and financial documents, including variations in parents’ names that appear in any relevant documents.
If an education loan is disbursed prior to CAS issuance, applicants must provide us with evidence of the disbursal in a bank statement.
Applicants must also then provide their bank statement once the disbursed funds have been maintained in their account for at least 28 days.
Applicants should be prepared to provide evidence of their source of funds so we can verify that they have access to a genuine source of funds for study.
Even if there is no evidence of funds deposited to your account during the term of the bank statement provided to us, we may still request evidence for the source of your funds that appear in your evidence account.
Where translations of documents are required, these must meet the UKVI's requirements for translated documents.
Guidance for acceptable document translations that meet the UKVI’s requirements is available in this document .
We may request multiple bank statement copies, including digital copies and scanned copies of your physical bank statement.
We may need to request additional information from you several times to verify your financial evidence, depending on the information and evidence that you submit to us.
"I am an international student currently studying MSc International Business and Management at the University of Suffolk.
I used CAS Shield as part of my CAS application, where I was able to complete my Pre-CAS interview at a time that suited me and securely submit my required supporting documentation to the Admissions team.
I would like to share my experience of the process with you"
Read Egbunine's full experience below.
CAS Shield was great because it allowed me to communicate with the admissions team throughout the CAS application via its easy-to-use chat feature.
I often sent questions when I needed clarification about a document or detail I was filling in.
I was able to track my CAS issuing progress, as it always showed me the status in percentage.
The fact that it automatically saves the filled-in details is great because it saved me time as I would log out and just come back and continue from where I had previously stopped.
When I was granted access to CAS Shield, the first thing I was prompted to do was to create a CAS Shield account unique to me using a link I had received in my email.
Upon creating the account, I filled in my personal details such as name, nationality and date of birth.
I had to upload supporting documents, such as; my passport, TB test certificate, proof of deposit payment, bank statements, degree transcripts and certificate.
I did this periodically as at the beginning I did not have all the required documents, but it is important to upload the documents as soon as you receive them.
I was also able to take my Pre-CAS interview through CAS Shield as well, choosing a time and date that worked for me.
I prepared for my Pre-CAS Interview by reading the information provided on the University's website, it has information on the course you are applying for, student visa, accommodation and life in Ipswich.
I also attended three webinars hosted by the members of the International and Admissions team and they shared tips on what to expect during the interviews.
I also watched videos on platforms such as YouTube from students who have studied in the UK before.
During the Pre-CAS Interview, I was asked questions about my course of choice, which is MSc International Business Management, how it aligns with my academic and professional background and my plans after graduation.
I was also asked about other UK and non-UK universities that I had considered and why I had chosen to study at the University of Suffolk.
I was asked about the accommodation options and the plans I had made in terms of booking accommodation, on campus or off in private halls.
I was required to share information relating to finances, how I would pay for my tuition fees, how much I was planning to spend on my monthly cost of living and whether I had adequate finances available.
My one piece of advice for someone who has an upcoming Pre-CAS Interview is - "The future belongs to those who prepare for it today." — Malcolm X - do a lot of preparation, reading and research beforehand to avoid feeling pressured on the day of your interview.
This will also boost your confidence.
I read a lot of information on the university and the UKVI websites respectively on student visa applications.
I also asked the university representative questions when I was unsure.
In one of the webinars I attended, there was a current student who shared information about life in Ipswich, I found this useful as I had never been to Ipswich let alone the UK.
All modules for my course were listed on the website, so I familiarised myself beforehand and knew what I was expecting to be taught and to gain but most importantly I was well prepared for course-related questions.
One thing I wish I knew about the Pre-CAS Interview process is that you don't have to wait to take your interview.
I assumed I could only take my interview once I had completed filling in my details on CAS Shield.
This was a wrong assumption, so the one thing I wish I knew has to be you can do a lot of what is expected of you simultaneously.
Do not hold back thinking you can't take your interview - do it as soon as you feel confident and prepared.
My experience of using CAS Shield was amazing.
It is a user-friendly platform and straightforward to use.
It was not complicated at all and it's a one-stop platform for all your Pre-CAS and visa-related processes.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/getting-ready-to-study/what-to-pack:
Packing for studying abroad in the UK requires careful consideration.
Though it might be tempting to bring as much of your belongings with you, we would recommend you limit yourself to two bags.
Not only is it difficult to carry more but the National Express coaches from the airports to Ipswich (or tube and bus services to our London Centre campus) have restrictions on the amount of luggage they allow.
When picking which clothes to bring, pack lots of layers and warm clothes.
Weather is very changeable in the UK so it’s good to have a variety of clothing suitable for all weather.
As well as the essentials it's a good idea to pack some personal belongings to make your accommodation feel more familiar.
If you're bringing electrical appliances remember to pack the relevant converters and chargers (the UK uses 230 volts), and check with your accommodation if the appliances are allowed.
If you haven't already provided copies of your certificates and transcripts, bring these with you as they may be needed at your induction.
Remember that you don't need to bring everything with you; you can buy some items locally if needed.
We've partnered with UniKitOut, a leading student kit supplier, to make your move-in as smooth as possible.
UniKitOut offers a variety of living essentials delivered directly to your new accommodation, ready for you when you check in.
Skip the last-minute rush and kit-out your room in style now!
Special offer for our students: Save 10% on your UniKitOut order with the discount code 'SUFFOLK10'.
Make sure to buy your pack before you arrive to have everything ready and waiting for you.
Enjoy a hassle-free move-in experience with UniKitOut!
Pick your pack
We’ve created essential guides to help you fully prepare for your studies at the University of Suffolk.
Explore your next steps for a smooth transition into university life.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/applicant-area/right-to-study-checks:
Right to Study
Everyone who requires immigration permission to be in the UK will be required to undertake a Right to Study (RTS) check.
You are required to demonstrate you have sufficient RTS before you commence your studies at the University.
Students who fail to provide the relevant right to study documentation when requested by the university will be withdrawn.
Due to UKVI Compliance requirements, the documentation you will be asked to provide will be different depending the immigration permission you hold.
The University will k eep a copy of your Right to Study d ocumentation on file .
If you have any questions regarding your Right to Study check, please email us at rts@uos.ac.uk .
You will also be required to provide ID during the in-person registration process, before you collect your student card.
You will be required to provide ID during the in-person registration process, before you collect your student card.
You will be required to evidence your valid passport and Student Route immigration permission.
You will also be required to evidence your date of entry into the UK and confirm your UK address and contact number.
Immigration permission
Documentation required
Student visa
You must provide a copy of your passport, student visa, proof of entry to the UK and UK contact details.
Passport:
Immigration permission:
Proof of entry to the UK:
Contact details:
Important information:
If you have been granted a student visa, it is important you check the details on your visa.
Check all details are correct, including the start and end date.
Further information on the time period granted before your course starts and after it finishes can be found in ST25.1 – ST25.3 of Appendix Student .
It is your responsibility to check these details carefully and let the Home Office know within 10 days of the BRP arriving if there is an error.
You will be required to evidence your valid passport and immigration permission.
For refugees, a refugee travel document or other photo ID will be accepted in place of a passport.
Settled or pre-settled status
You must provide your valid passport and immigration permission
Other type of immigration permission
If your immigration permission does not fit into any of the categories above, then you must provide a copy of your passport and valid immigration permission.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/getting-ready-to-study/guide-to-customs:
When you arrive at the UK border you will find there are queues at passport control.
One is for the European Economic Area (EEA & Swiss) nationals and another is for non-EEA nationals.
You will first have to show your passport and entry clearance (visa) if you have one, to a Border Force Officer.
When you arrive in the UK, your passport will be checked along with your documents and you may be asked a few questions as you pass through immigration.
We would always recommend that you are polite and patient.
When the immigration officer has checked your documents, and is satisfied that you are a genuine student, you will get a stamp in your passport (visa holders only) and will be allowed to pass through to customs.
EU/EEA and Swiss citizens entering with a passport with a biometric chip can use the electronic gates (e-gates).
When you enter the UK on a Student visa, the Border Force Officer must check that you speak English at the required level, without needing an interpreter.
They will ask questions about your arrival in the UK but there is no test involved.
We recommend keeping the following in your hand luggage just in case:
After you have collected your luggage you must go through customs control and join the appropriate queue:
Green channel - if you have nothing to declare
Red channel - if you have items to declare
Blue channel - if you have arrived from an airport within the European Union (EU) where you have already cleared all your baggage through Customs Control.
Now, all you have to do is make your way to the University.
Follow our guide to getting here for further guidance!

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/getting-ready-to-study/arrival-information:
The closest airport to Ipswich is London Stansted.
However, you may arrive at another London airport, such as London Heathrow, Gatwick, or Luton.
When you land, we recommend taking a National Express bus from the airport to Ipswich.
You can pre-book your bus ticket or purchase it at the airport.
Upon your arrival in Ipswich, take advantage of our free taxi shuttle service to your accommodation.
We will share this information with you via email.
National Express (UK Coach network)
National Rail (UK train network)

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/getting-ready-to-study/opening-a-bank-account:
If you are looking to open a bank account once you have arrived in the UK, there is a wide array of choice as an international student.
Here is a list of some of the banks based in Ipswich and a list of eligibility requirements to open an account.
This will also give you an idea of which banks are widely available in the UK if you will be studying at one of our other campuses.
We are also partnered with Blackbullion , which offers financial guidance on their online platform.
All Suffolk students can access Blackbullion for free, and it is a great aid for students in all things related to student finance and budgeting.
The platform has specific modules and advice for international students so you should find this really useful.
We offer a range of scholarships for international students.
Learn more about the awards we have on offer this year by visiting our International Scholarships page.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/getting-ready-to-study/online-course-for-international-students:
Not enough information?
Get ready for your UK adventure by joining a free online course developed by the British Council and FutureLearn to help you understand how to make the most of life and university study in the UK.
You will become familiar with studying in English and show higher education courses are structured, gaining a clear understanding of what to expect.
It is highly recommended by the British Council as a great source of information about the educational system, cultural differences and working in a different language.
What will you achieve?
By the end of the course you will be able to:
We hope this course will help you to study and thrive in the UK.
Good luck and see you in September!
View example course materials:

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/international/getting-ready-to-study/induction-for-international-students:
Enrolment is the process of officially registering as a student at the University.
This includes providing necessary documentation, confirming your personal details, and ensuring all administrative requirements are met.
For international students coming to the UK, enrolment typically involves the following steps:
Completing the enrolment process is crucial as it allows you to officially start your studies, access University facilities, and participate in classes.
Our International Student Induction is designed to help you settle into life in the UK and at the University.
Here’s what you can expect:
Our programme includes:
We provide essential information sessions covering:
Attend workshops that will help you adjust, such as:
Join various social activities to make new friends and build your network:
We offer a range of support services to assist you:
We look forward to welcoming you to our vibrant international community!

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/research-and-knowledge-exchange/research-showcase:
Explore research taking place at the University of Suffolk
The research projects below reflect the diverse expertise of our academics here at the University, from Flywheel Training for strength and conditioning in Sports Science to links between finance and life expectancy in Bangladesh.
Explore the case studies to find further information about some of our most current research projects.
by Dr Andres Arce
by Dr Antonio Bonacaro
by Professor Colin Martin
by Dr Sue Hollinrake
By Dr Clare Gartland
by Dr Jane Watt and Dr Susan Barnet
by Dr Alexander T.
Latinjak
by Prof Chantal Ski, Prof Nicholas Caldwell, Prof Mark Shenton and Dr Karen Windle
by Cristian Dogaru and Laura Polley

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/research-and-knowledge-exchange/research-and-knowledge-exchange-office:
The Research and Knowledge Exchange Office is the University’s dedicated support team for all aspects of research and knowledge exchange (RKE) funding and activity.
We offer a comprehensive range of services to staff members involved in research and knowledge exchange spanning the entire RKE process - from project development and identifying funding sources to negotiating funding contracts and securing funding.
Additionally, we provide advice and guidance on managing RKE projects, ethical considerations, and compliance with RKE policies.
We also oversee strategic planning for RKE at the institutional level, manage submissions for the Research Excellence Framework (REF) and the Knowledge Exchange Framework (KEF), ensure compliance with relevant Concordats, and support the Pro Vice-Chancellor Research and Knowledge Exchange with institutional formula-based funding from Research England.
Our Research and Knowledge Exchange Office provides the following services:
Contact Us
General enquiries:
For all research and research funding enquiries please contact: researchoffice@uos.ac.uk
For all KE enquiries please contact: KE@uos.ac.uk
For University of Suffolk staff, please visit our RKEO Hub for further information on the support available: Research & Knowledge Exchange Office

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/get-in-touch/people-directory/research/emma-bond:
As Pro Vice-Chancellor RKE, Emma is a key member of our University’s Executive and Senior Leadership Team and has a significant role in driving the research agenda across the entire institution.
She has overall responsibility for the Research and Knowledge Exchange Directorate and the University’s research strategy.
Emma is leading the University’s preparation for a successful 2027/8 future REF submission and in achieving RDAP by 2025.
Emma also has oversight of the University’s research institutes and centres and works in close collaboration with our Directors of Research Institutes, our Professoriate and Deans of Schools to ensure that our strong, high-performing University is underpinned by a rich research culture generating high quality outputs and intellectual capital as key provider of research informed education, knowledge exchange and research.
Emma is a Senior Fellow of the Higher Education Academy and has over 20 years teaching experience on social science undergraduate and post-graduate courses including PhD and extensive research experience focusing on online risk and vulnerable groups; image-based abuse (sexting and revenge pornography); online harassment; domestic abuse and sexual abuse.
Emma has over 20 years teaching experience on both undergraduate and postgraduate social science courses.
She designed the original MA Childhood and Youth studies course at UoS, based on an innovative blended learning approach which was published by The Scottish Higher Education Enhancement Committee as an example of exemplary practice from an International perspective.
In 2019 Emma was commissioned to write the online Safety module for Epigeum/Oxford University Press for University students with Prof Andy Phippen (University of Bournemouth) as part of the interactive wellbeing toolkit for university students Staying Safe Course to be launched in 2020.
Being Well, Living Well is a flexible online toolkit to ensure every student has access to adequate wellbeing support.
She is a visiting Professor at the University of Bournemouth and the external examiner for the MSc Sociology and Criminology at Liverpool John Moores University.
She is currently supervising ten PhD students.
Completed PhD Supervision
Teresa Sofia Pereira Dias de Castro, Thesis title: It’s a complicated situation”: Harm in everyday experiences with technology.
A qualitative study with school aged children .
Awarded together with a European Doctoral Degree on 2 October 2015 at the University of Minho, Portugal.
Supervised to completion with Professor António José Meneses Osório from the University of Minho.
Mark Manning, Thesis title: Policing as a Virtue, Moral Alignment and Legitimacy Primary Supervisor with Professor Nigel South, University of Essex.
Current PhD students:
Vanessa Rawlins, Thesis title: The Potential of Pastoral and Wellbeing Support in Education Primary Supervisor with Professor Eamonn Carrabine, University of Essex.
Laura Messer, Thesis title: Identity, Job Crafting and Academic Middle Management in UK HEIs , Primary Supervisor with Dr.
Tom Vine, University of Suffolk.
Granville Sutton, Thesis title: What Meaning Does Cannabis Have for Older Adult Users Living in a Rural County?
Primary Supervisor with Dr.
Paul Andell, University of Suffolk and Professor Nigel South, University of Essex.
Heather Hunt: Thesis title: To what extent do the lives of very young carers differ from their peers who do not provide familial care?
Primary supervisor with Prof Penny Cavenagh.
Carolyn Leader, Thesis title: The role of technology in domestic abuse Primary supervisor with Professor Andy Phippen, Secondary Supervisor and Olumide Adisa, Associate Supervisor.
Chelsea Moorhouse, Thesis title: Unsubscribing From the Gender Binary: Exploring The Experiences Of Non-Binary Youth With Online Video Platforms with Dr Paul Drisroll-Evans (Lead Supervisor).
Fiona Ellis, Thesis title: Understanding training needs of health professionals for supporting adult survivors of Child Sexual Abuse Primary supervisor with Dr.
Paul Driscoll-Evans, Secondary Supervisor and Prof Andy Phippen, Associate Supervisor.
Tegan Locke, Thesis title: How do rurality and widening participation characteristics intersect to create non-participation in STEM based HE in Suffolk Primary supervisor with Nick Allum, University of Essex
Katie Tyrell, Thesis title: Intimate Relationships Online: An Exploration of University Students' Internet-facilitated Romantic Relationships and the Associated Opportunities and Risks.
Primary Supervisor with Professor Andy Phippen, University of Bournemouth.
Emma Harvey, Thesis title: Perspectives into Technology Use in Early Years .
Emma's research interests focus on the everyday interactions between people, society and technology and she is especially interested in developing both innovative and accessible methodologies in research which foster meaningful participation with marginalised groups.
She is internationally renowned for her work on online and social media environments, sexting, revenge pornography and online safeguarding and a frequent keynote speaker at international forums.
Currently Emma is working on an on-going research partnership with the Marie Collins Foundation protecting children from online sexual abuse and working with children and their families for effective recovery after online sexual abuse and a research parentship with UK Safer Internet Centre.
She is working on Home Office funded evaluation of educational resources for online vulnerability including SEND; looked after children and LGBTQI+ and evaluating ProjectEVOLVE resources each of the 330 statements from UK Council for Internet Safety's (UKCIS) framework Education for a Connected World.
Her recent research includes an extensive body on work on online harassment in UK Universities including the Catalyst funded Digital Civility of University Students for the Office for Students which informed the Higher Education Online Safeguarding Self-Review Tool and UUK’s Tackling Online Harassment and Promoting Online Welfare Report and Online Harassment and Hate Crime in HEIs .
Other examples of Emma’s research include Police Response to Youth Offending Around the Generation and Distribution of Indecent Images of Children and its Implications ; the vulnerability of primary school aged children online; an investigation into the awareness of Child Helplines in five European countries; an evaluation of the Revenge Porn Helpline and an evaluation of the Click: Path to Protection training for the Marie Collins Foundation.
She has also completed an extensive research project for the Better Policing Collaborative and the College of Policing on a review of domestic violence and abuse for five Police Forces in the UK as part of a project with the Police Knowledge Fund which included Police Force knowledge of Revenge Pornography legislation and the role of everyday technologies in cases of domestic abuse.
Her research on virtual environments, mobile technologies and risk has attracted much national and international acclaim and she has been interviewed for BBC Breakfast; ITV; The Today Programme on Radio 4; Woman's Hour on Radio 4; Channel 4's Sex Education Show and for various national media channels in the UK, America and Canada.
Books:
Bond, E.
and Phippen, A.
(2022) Safeguarding Adults Online: perspectives on Rights to Participation .
Bristol Policy Press.
Phippen, A.
and Bond E.
(2020) Organisational Responses to Social Media Storms.
Basingstoke: Palgrave
(2014) Childhood, Mobile Technologies and Everyday Experiences.
Basingstoke: Palgrave
Taylor, J.; Bond, E and Woods, M.
(Eds.) (2013) Early Childhood Studies an Holistic, Interdisciplinary Introduction.
London: Hodder Arnold.
Chapters in books:
and Phippen A.
(2023) ‘Online Safeguarding of Adults with an Intellectual Disability: How do we Ensure that participation and Protection Rights as Adequately met in Digital Society?’ In Housely, W.; Edwards, A.; Beneito-Montagaut and Fitzgerald, R.
(Eds.) The Sage Handbook of Digital Society .
Sage.
and Bond, E.
(2023) “Section 69 – Threats of Disclose Private Sexual Photographs and Films with Intent to Cause Distress”.
In Edwards, S.
(2023).
Blackstone's Guide to the Domestic Abuse Act 2021.
Blackwells.
(2022) ‘Working with schools to tackle online harms and gender-based violence’ in Humphreys, C.
and Towl, G.
(Eds.) Stopping Gender-based Violence in Higher Education: Policy, Practice, and Partnerships.
Routledge.
and Bond, E .
(2022) ‘Online Safeguarding and personal CyberSkills for Students’ in Brown, B.
A.
and Irons, A.
(eds.) The Emerald Handbook of Higher Education in a Post-Covid World: New Approaches and Technologies for Teaching and Learning .
Emerald.
Bond, E.
(2022) Online Safeguarding of Adults with Mental Capacity Issues – how do we ensure that participation and protection rights are adequately met in digital society?
In Housley, W; Edwards, A.; Beneito-Montagut, R.
and Richard Fitzgerald, R.
(Eds) The SAGE Handbook of Digital Society, 2v, London: Sage.
(2022) Working with schools to tackle online harms and gender-based violence in Humphreys, C.J.
and Towl, G.J.
(Eds.).
(forthcoming).
Stopping gender-based violence in higher education: Policy, practice, and partnerships.
(2021) Online misinformation, its influence on the student body, and institutional responsibilities.
In D.
Baker and L.
Ellis (Eds.) Libraries, Digital Information and COVID: Practical Applications and Approaches to Challenge and Change.
Elsevier.
Phippen A.
(2020) Human Rights and Cybersecurity.
In Jajodia, S., Samarati, P.
and Yung, M.
(Eds.) Encyclopaedia of Cryptography, Security and Privacy Springer.
(2020) Image Recognition in Child Sexual Exploitation Material—Capabilities, Ethics and Rights.
In Jahankhani, H., Akhgar, B., Cochrane, P., Dastbaz, M.
(Eds.) Policing in the Era of AI and Smart Societies Springer.
(2020) Tackling Teen Sexting-Policing Challenges When Society and Technology Outpace Legislation.
In Jahankhani, H., Akhgar, B., Cochrane, P., Dastbaz, M.
Phippen, A.; Bond, E.
and Buck, E.
(2020) “Effective Strategies for Information Literacy Education: Combating ‘Fake News’”.
Ellis (Eds.) in Digital Information Review 2020.
and Bond, E, (2020) “Virtually Vulnerable – Why Digital Technology Challenges the Fundamental Concepts of Vulnerability and Risk”.
In J Liddle and G.
Addidle (Eds.) Contemporary issues of vulnerability: Contextualising change .
Routledge
and Rawlings, V.
(2019) Kinder in der Health Literacy Forschung und Praxis?
Rhetorik, Rechte, Partizipation published by Springer VS in the series " Gesundheit und Gesellschaft"
(2018) Children as Active Participants in Health Literacy Research and Practice?
From Rhetoric to Rights in Okan, O.; Bauer, U.; Pinheiro, P.; Zamir-Levin, D.
and Sørensen, K.
(eds.) International Handbook of Health Literacy: Research, practice and policy across the lifespan.
Bristol: Policy Press (in press).
(2018) Chapter 13: It’s terrible having no job, people look down on you and you’ve never enough money: Young People’s experiences of unemployment in Fey, D.
and Kober-Smith, A.
(Eds.) Inequalities in the UK: New Discourses, Evolutions and Actions Emerald.
(2017) Virtual vulnerability - Safeguarding children in digital environments in Dastbaz, M.
Arabnia, H.
and Aghkar,  B (Eds .) Technology and Smart Future s.
London: Springer.
and Hallsworth, S.
(2017) Downpressor: How welfare reform ‘supports’ young people in White, D.
and Fletcher, S.
(Eds) The Violence of Austerity.
London: Pluto Press.
'Sexting' in Brown, M.
and Rafter, N.
(Eds) Oxford Research Encyclopaedia of Crime, Media and Popular Culture online DOI: 10.1093/acrefore/9780190264079.013.142.
Bond, E.; Agnew, S.; Ritchie, L.; Palmer-Conn, S.
and Garbett, C.
‘Creative Assessments: four effective approaches’ (2015) in Kneale, P.
(Ed.) Perspectives on Masters Level Teaching, Learning and Student Experience Basingstoke: Palgrave pp.
183-185
and Agnew, S.
(2015) Using digital Methods with Young People: methodological Innovation or madness?
In Christine Hine, C.
Yvette Morey, Y.
Steve Roberts, S.
Helene Snee, H.
Hayley Watson, H.
(Eds.) Digital Methods for Social Sciences: An Interdisciplinary guide to research innovation Basingstoke: Palgrave pp.
190-206.
(2014) ‘Risk Society’ in Taylor, P.; Corteen, K.
and Morley, S.
(Eds.) A Companion to Criminal Justice, Mental Health and Risk Bristol: Policy Press pp.
250-251.
(2013) Introduction in Taylor, J.; Bond, E.
and Woods, M.
(Eds.) Early Childhood Studies an Holistic, Interdisciplinary Introduction London: Hodder Arnold pp.
vii-1.
(2013) Early Childhood Studies: First Principles in Taylor, J.; Bond, E.
1-26.
(2013) Understanding Childhood in Late Modernity Taylor, J.; Bond, E.
(Eds.) Early Childhood Studies an Holistic, Interdisciplinary Introduction London: Hodder Arnold pp.162-182.
(2013) Understanding Children’s Rights: examining the rhetoric with reality in Taylor, J.; Bond, E.
33-349.
and Clark, J.
(2013) ‘Alternatives to the essay: creative ways of presenting work for assessment’ in McIntosh, P.
and Warren, D.
(Eds) Creativity in the Classroom: Case Studies in Using the Arts in Teaching and Learning in Higher Education Bristol: Intellect pp.
227-244
& Goodchild, T (2012) Challenges of Teaching with Technology in HE - Towards a New Third Space?
In: Carpenter, R.G.
(Ed.) Cases on Higher Education Spaces: Innovation, Collaboration and Technology .
Hershey (USA), IGI Publishing.
Journal articles:
(2019) ‘Teaching Online Safety in School Guidance—New Non-Statutory Guidance from the Department for Education Leaves Much to be Desired’, Entertainment Law Review (8).
(2019) ‘The Online Harms Spearmint Paper—Just More Doing More?’.
Entertainment Law Review (6).
and Bond E.
(2019) Aldi “Teatime TakeDown” - Are Data Breaches and Online Abuse the Best Ways to get Children to Come Down for Dinner?” Entertainment Law Review Vol.
30 (5) pp.
140-142.
and Bond, E.
(2019) When Digital Ghost Stories Go Viral.
Entertainment Law Review Vol.
30 (4) pp.
103-105.
(2019) Why is placing the child at the centre of online safeguarding so difficult?
30 (3) pp.
80-84
and Dogaru, C.
(2018) An Evaluation of an Inter-Disciplinary Training Programme for Professionals to Support Children and Their Families Who have Been Sexually Abused Online.
British Journal Social Work bcy075, https://doi.org/10.1093/bjsw/bcy075
and Tyrrell, K.
(2018) Understanding Revenge Pornography: A National Study of Police Officers and Staff in England and Wales.
Journal of Interpersonal Violence, DOI: 1177/0886260518760011.
Okan, O.; Lopez, E.; Bollweg,T.; Bröder, J.; Messer, M.; Bruland, D.; Bond, E.; Carvalho, G.
S.; SØrensen, K.; Saboga-Nunes, L.; Levin-Zamir, D.; Sahrai, D.; Bittlingmayer, U.
H.; Pelikan,J.; Thomas, M.; Bauer, U.
and Pinheiro, P.
(2018) Generic health literacy measurement instruments for children and adolescents: a systematic review of the literature.
BMC Public Health 18 (166) DOI 10.1186/s12889-018-5054-0
(2017) ‘Pro-ana Content Online: From Demonising Discourses to Delving into the Debate’, Entertainment Law Review, 29 (1) 3-6.
Bruland, D.; Pinheiro, P.; Bröder, J.; Okan, O.; Carvalho, G.; Saboga-Nunes, L.; Bond, E.; Wahl, P.; Fretian, A.
and Bauer, U.
(2017) Teachers supporting parents with mental health problems.
Case Studies Journal, Vol.
6 (9).
Bröder, J.; Okan, O.; Bauer, U.; Bruland, D.; Schlupp.
S.; Bollweg,T.; Saboga-Nunes, L.; Bond, E.; SØrensen, K.; Bitzer, E-M.; Jordan, S.; Domanska, O.; Firinges, C.; Carvalho, G.
S.; Bittlingmayer, U.
H.; Levin-Zamir, D.; Pelikan,J.; Sahrai, D.; Lenz, A.; Wahl, P.; Thomas, M.; Kessl, F.
(2017) ‘Health Literacy in childhood and youth: a systematic review of definitions and models’, BMC Public Health 17 (361) DOI:10.1186/s12889-017-4267-y.
(2016) Training Update Staff E-safety INSET Presentation by Childnet International, London, 2016.
Child Abuse Review 10.1002/car.2441
(2016) Transforming teaching in a digital world: From determinism to democracy?
Investigar em Educação - II ª Série, Número 6,
Castro, T., Osório, A., & Bond, E.
(2016).
Everybody does pirating!
Children’s views about online piracy.
Revista Configurações, Vol.
16, pp.
11-24.)
(2014) Book review Understanding Childhood A cross disciplinary approach (2nd edn.) in Children and Society Vol.
28 (6) pp.
496-497.
and Goodchild, T.
(2013) "Paradigms, Paradoxes and Professionalism: An exploration of lecturers’ perspectives on technology enhanced learning" in Journal of Applied Research in Higher Education Vol.
5 (5) pp.
72-83.
(2013) Book review Children and the Internet.
Great Expectations, Challenging Realities in Telecommunications Policy Vol.
37 pp.
80-81.
(2013) ‘Mobile phones, risk and responsibility: Understanding children’s perceptions’ in CyberPsychology: Journal of Psychosocial Research on Cyberspace February 2013.
(2012) Virtually Anorexic – Where’s the harm?
In Children’s Services Weekly No.
143 pp.
6-9.
In Education Journal Wales /CYMRU No.
13 issue 12.
(2010) ‘Managing mobile relationships – Children’s perceptions of the impact of the mobile phone on relationships in their everyday lives’ in Childhood Vol.
17 no.
4 pp.
514-529.
(2010) 'The mobile phone = bike shed?
Children, sex and mobile phones' in New Media & Society Vol.
13 no.
587-604.
Research reports and other publications:
Bond, E., & Phippen, A.
(2022) Higher education online safeguarding self-review tool.
University of Suffolk and Office for National Students.
(2019) Online Harassment and Hate Crime in HEIs – report from FOI Ipswich: University of Suffolk FOI-Report-Final-Jan-2020-rgb
(2019) Police Response to Youth Offending Around the Generation and Distribution of Indecent Images of Children and its Implications Ipswich: University of Suffolk FOI-Report-Final-Outcome-21
(2019) Higher Education Online Self-Review Tool.
Ipswich: University of Suffolk Higher-Education-Online-Safeguarding-Self-Review-Tool 2019_0 (1)
(2019) ‘Being digital natives won’t protect students from online abuse’ WonkHE shortlisted for WonkHE awards 2019.
(2019) Digital Ghost Stories; Impact, Risks and Reasons.
SWGfL available online from https://swgfl.org.uk/research/digital-ghost-stories-impact-risks-and-reasons/
Bond, E.; Ellis, F.
and McCusker, J.
(2018) I'll be a survivor for the rest of my life: Adult survivors of child sexual abuse and their experience of support services.
Ipswich: UoS available from: https://oars.uos.ac.uk/2623/1/%E2%80%98I%E2%80%99ll%20be%20a%20survivor%20for%20the%20rest%20of%20my%20life%E2%80%99%20Report%20FINAL.pdf
Tyrell, K.; Bond, E.
Manning, M and Dogaru, C.
(2017) Diversion, Prevention and Youth Justice: a model of integrated decision making: An evaluation of the Suffolk Youth Offending Service Diversion Programme.
Ipswich: University of Suffolk.
Dogaru, C.; Bond, E.
(2017) Evaluation of the Children’s wellbeing fund.
(2017) Findings from the online survey with professionals in Bedfordshire for MCF.
and Palmer, T.
(2017) Awareness of the 116 111 Child Helpline Number A report on the findings of an evaluation in five European countries.
Tyrrell, K.
(2017) Well-being and online vulnerability for children aged 10-13 in Suffolk.
Findings from three years of Suffolk Cybersurvey 2014-2016.
Extension work for Better Policing Collaboration contract (ID: 2013-050) in support of the development of a multi-agency e-safety crime prevention (MESCP) initiative in Suffolk.
(2017) Resources for Digital Hub Extension work for Better Policing Collaboration contract (ID: 2013-050) in support of the development of a multi-agency e-safety crime prevention (MESCP) initiative in Suffolk.
(2016) Multiagency E-safety Crime Prevention (MESCP) Better Policing Collaborative.
Bond, E.; Bland, M.; McGuire, J.; Dixon, L.
(2016) An analysis of recorded domestic abuse in Suffolk and a review of evidence for interventions to respond to, prevent and improve reporting rates of domestic abuse Better Policing Collaborative.
(2016) An analysis of recorded domestic abuse in Norfolk and a review of evidence for interventions to respond to, prevent and improve reporting rates of domestic abuse Better Policing Collaborative.
(2016) An analysis of recorded domestic abuse in the West Midlands and a review of evidence for interventions to respond to, prevent and improve reporting rates of domestic abuse Better Policing Collaborative.
(2016) An analysis of recorded domestic abuse in  Dorset and a review of evidence for interventions to respond to, prevent and improve reporting rates of domestic abuse Better Policing Collaborative.
Bond, E, and Dogaru, C.
(2016) Evaluation of the National revenge Pornography Helpline Ipswich: UCS.
and Manning, M.
(2015) Lowestoft Rising: Progress to Employment A study of the experiences of young people in Lowestoft who are long-term unemployed.
Ipswich: UCS with Suffolk County Council.
(2015) Evaluation of pilot training programme: Click Path to Protection with MCF.
(2015) Understanding Domestic Abuse in Suffolk: Understanding Survivors experiences.
Ipswich: UCS with Suffolk OPCC.
and Agnew S.
(2014) ‘The use technology to support M level students on this programme’ published by The Scottish Higher Education Enhancement Committee as an example of exemplary practice from an International perspective.
Bond, E.; Agnew, S.; Pippen, A.
(2014) ‘The Children’s Workforce across England is ill-equipped to meet the needs of child victims of online abuse’ http://www.mariecollinsfoundation.org.uk
Agnew S.
(2013) ‘Everyone Deserves a Second Chance - Findings from a qualitative review of the Challenge 4 Change (C4C) Intervention Programme’ Ipswich: UCS.
Agnew, S.
(2013) ‘Findings from Progress into Employment: Understanding Youth Unemployment in Greater Ipswich’ Ipswich: UCS.
Bond E.
(2013) Research Highlights for Children’s Online Safety #48 A Research Study of Pro-anorexia Websites London: UKCCIS
(2013) Starving for Perfection Society Central March 2013 online http://societycentral.ac.uk/?s=anorexia
(2013) ‘Exploring student and employer perspectives on creating an online platform for ‘Opportunities in Suffolk’ Ipswich: UCS with Suffolk County Council.
(2013) ‘My education: The good the bad and the ugly’.
A report on the findings from Shout Out Suffolk!
Ipswich: UCS with the RSA.
A research study on the risks of pro-anorexia websites.
Ipswich: UCS with Nominet Trust.
and Carter, P.
(2012) The Suffolk Cybersurvey report Ipswich: UCS with Suffolk County Council.
(2011) The Suffolk Cybersurvey report
(2008) STF 323 on Specification and guidelines for service providers on the provision of information services to children Sophia Antipolis, Fr: European Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI).
Recent conferences:
'Revenge Pornography and legislation in the UK: an empirical evaluation of impact' (with Andy Phippen) Online Sexual Abuse and Criminal Law, University of Groningen, June 2020.
'Identifying and Combating Unacceptable Online Behaviour in Higher Education, Government Event’s Student Wellbeing 2020: Improving and Enhancing Student Safeguarding', June 2020 (invited speaker).
'Sex, Savages and Starvation - focusing on young people’s consumption and production of sexual images online and the impact on self-identity' - invited speaker at The European Society of Contraception and Reproductive Health (ESC) organises the 16th Congress in Dublin, Ireland, May 2020.
Understanding online abuse Westminster Higher Education Forum Policy Conference: Priorities for tackling sexual violence and harassment in higher education.
Invited speaker London, April 2020.
‘Adopting a holistic approach to student’s wellbeing online’, invited speaker Tackling Sexual Violence and Harassment, London, November 2019.
‘What works in safeguarding students online’, Invited speaker, WonkFest, London, November 2019 (with Andy Phippen).
‘Understanding Online Harassment and Hate Crime in HE contexts’, invited speaker with Andy Phippe, JICS security conference, Newcastle, November 2019.
‘Online Harassment in Universities – What is the Institution’s Duty of Care?’ (with Andy Phippen) invited speaker for Pinsent Mason LLP, October 2019.
‘Tackling online harassment in Universities – adopting an holistic approach, UUK annual conference’, September 2019 invited speaker University of Birmingham.
‘What haven’t we learned in online safeguarding for UUK, London’, June 2019 invited keynote speaker (with Andy Phippen and Katie Tyrrell)
‘Understanding online harassment and hate crime in a UK university context’ at the OfS, Birmingham June 2019 (with Andy Phippen)
‘Creating a culture of Digital Civility in a Higher Education Context’ at the University of Surrey, June 2019 (with Katie Tyrrel and Andy Phippen)
‘Creating a culture of Digital Civility in a Higher Education Context’.
Digital Differences?
National Safer Internet Conference, Ipswich, February, 2019 (with Katie Tyrrell).
‘Challenging the culture on online harassment’, invited speaker Office for Students, London: November 2018.
‘Addressing the Digital Divide: Equipping Parents and Teachers with the Skills and Expertise for Safeguarding’, Invited keynote speaker for Public Policy Exchange Reinforcing Child Protection Online: Minimising Risk, Boosting Digital Resilience London; September, 2018.
‘I’ll be a survivor for the rest of my life: Adult Survivors of Child Sexual Abuse and their experiences of support services’.
National Childhood Sexual Abuse Conference, Ipswich, July 2018.
(with Fiona Ellis).
Keynote address.
‘What works in Safeguarding students online’, invited speaker Office for Students, London: June 2018.
‘Nothing tastes as good as skinny feels’ Adolescent Lives: Cross-disciplinary, cross-national and critical perspectives on youth and wellbeing conference, UCL: institute of Education, December, 2017.
New Qualities of Digital Risk, invited key note address at Looking for New Horizons: The Circular Economy, ICESBA, Bucharest, Romania, November, 2017.
Understanding Pro-ana invited Key Note Speaker Royal College Psychiatrists Annual Scientific Conference 2017, University of Nottingham, September, 2017.
'What's the point?
I wish I hadn't bothered.' Domestic abuse victims’ experiences of the criminal justice system British Sociological Association Conference, Manchester, 2017.
Emma has extensive business engagement experience and has worked with a wide range of statutory and non-statutory organisations, NGOs and Charities including the Home Office, OfS; Amnesty International; the Better policing Collaborative; the UK Safer Internet Centre; Child Helpline International; European Telecommunications Standard Institute (ETSI); BT: The Marie Collins Foundation; Internet Matters; BBC Own it; Universities UK and Nominet.
Emma is currently an invited reviewer for the Newton Fund and the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG, German Research Foundation) in the area of Public Health and an expert member of the Scientific Advisory Board for Health Literacy in the Childhood and Adolescence (HCLA) Consortium in Germany.
She was the leading expert in the European Telecommunications Standard Institute (ETSI) publication specification and guidelines for service providers on the provision of information services to young children in close collaboration with Governments and NGO's; children's charities, service providers and industry stakeholders in London, Brussels and Nice.
Emma is Chair of the National Research Ethics Committee for the NSPCC and Chair of the Research Ethics Committee at the University of Suffolk.
She is an invited member of the UK Council Internet Safety (UKCIS) Evidence Group and an expert advisor for BBC Own it.
Emma is a member of the British Sociological Association (BSA) and a fellow of the RSA (The Royal Society for Arts, Manufactures and Commerce).

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/sue-raychaudhuri-0:
Sue supports the Research and Knowledge Exchange Directorate team at the University of Suffolk.
Sue is responsible for all research engagement activities and research governance within the RKE Directorate, which comprises the Research and Knowledge Exchange Office, Research Institutes and Suffolk Doctoral College.
Sue is also the Committee Secretary for Research & Knowledge Exchange Committee and Research and Enterprise Committee and manages the RKE Systems Administrator post.
As PA to Pro Vice-Chancellor, RKE to Professor Emma Bond, Sue manages diary commitments, monitors all the RKE, SDC and UKRI budgets and deals with all research related matters arising in the PVC-RKE's office.
Sue has previously worked in the University as PA to the Dean of School for Law and Social Sciences to Professor Noel Smith.
Sue has a BSc (Hons) degree in Geography and has over 34 years experience working in the public, private and voluntary sectors.
She has previously worked as Chapman Centre Manager - running a day centre for homeless people and has also worked in other notable charities in Ipswich as well as working for Suffolk Police, Ipswich Member of Parliament's office and at University College London to name a few.
Outside of work, Sue is a qualified trainer and is involved with community engagements.
She is an experienced Trustee and board member and volunteers in several charities in Ipswich.
Sue is often seen leading Ipswich and Mansion tour groups for worldwide visitors and is involved in the town's culture and heritage sector.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/andreea-tocca:
Andreea Tocca is the Head of Research Culture and Knowledge Exchange at the University of Suffolk, where she plays a pivotal role in fostering a supportive and innovative environment for research and knowledge exchange  initiatives that connects academia with the broader community.
Her leadership is essential in developing a collaborative and inclusive research culture that drives the university’s research and knowledge strategy delivery forward.
With 14 years of dedication to the University of Suffolk and over 30 years of experience in higher education and healthcare, Andreea brings substantial expertise to her role.
She holds a Master’s in Quantitative Economics (MSc), an MBA, and an MPhil in Health and Social Care, giving her both academic and practical insights that help ensure the university's research and knowledge exchange efforts deliver meaningful impact locally and nationally.
Andreea’s responsibilities include overseeing and ensuring compliance with:
Through these areas, Andreea ensures that the University of Suffolk’s research and knowledge exchange initiatives have a positive and far-reaching impact.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/stephen-walford:
Stephen is the Associate Director for Research and Knowledge Exchange (Funding and Contracts) in the University of Suffolk Research and Knowledge Exchange Office (RKEO).
Stephen is responsible for providing strategic direction and support for all research and knowledge exchange (RKE) funding and contracts activity across the university, working in partnership with the Pro Vice-Chancellor Research and Knowledge Exchange (PVCRKE), Research Institutes and Schools to acquire new funding and develop and effectively support the delivery of the university’s RKE portfolio.
Stephen leads the delivery of support for the University’s research and knowledge exchange funding and contract activity, including defining and shaping the pre-award and contract management services provided by the RKEO team, and monitoring and maintaining service effectiveness and responsiveness in close consultation with service users across the University.
Stephen also provides executive level strategic advice on RKE funding and contracts to the university Executive team and works closely with the PVCRKE to oversee and manage institutional grant allocations from Research England (including formula-based funding such as QR and HEIF).
Stephen has worked in the Higher Education Sector since 2007, starting his career within the Research Operations Office at the University of Cambridge.
He has gone on to hold senior professional services positions at King’s College London (School Manager, Population Health and Environmental Sciences), University of Cambridge (Business and Operations Manager, Department of Medicine) and University College London (Departmental Administrator, Department of Neurodegenerative Diseases).
Stephen holds a PgCert in Higher Education Leadership, Management and Administration and a BA (Hons) in Business Studies.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/sam-pryor:
Sam supports the Research and Knowledge Exchange (KE) Directorate, as the Research and KE Systems Administrator and joined in April 2023.
Within this role, Sam provides administrative support to the Research and KE Office and Suffolk Doctoral College including the monitoring and management of the Research Office inbox for all research related enquiries, creating and managing the The Hub and external research webpages and uploading all funding opportunities and supporting our institutional membership to Research Professional and Question Pro.
Sam also manages the record keeping of relevant digital documents and project funding bids and is responsible for supporting all aspects of accurate research monitoring across the research grant lifecycle (pre-award and post-award) through our extensive use of spreadsheet and Qlik.
Sam is also involved in managing all data systems in the Directorate - including funding and research engagement data and information on all research related systems.
Sam has a BSc (Hons) degree in Psychology from the University of Essex and an MSc in The Psychology and Neuroscience of Mental Health from King’s College London.
Previously Sam has worked at Ipswich Hospital in the Outpatients department, he also has experience offering support to young jobseekers from earlier roles as well as experience marking coursework for the University of Essex Psychology department.
Academically, Sam has focused on reading development and dyslexia, long term conditions influence on depression and visual perception, primarily visual stress and is currently doing a PhD.
Sam has extensive training in research methods and statistical analysis using SPSS, Excel etc.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/lucy-williamson:
Lucy supports the Research and Knowledge Exchange Directorate team at the University of Suffolk, providing administrative support for the Research Institutes.
Lucy is coordinator for the Institute of Health and Wellbeing and the Institute for Social Justice and Crime, and also provides support to the wider Research and Knowledge Exchange Office team.
Lucy is also the Committee Secretary for the University’s Research Ethics Committee and the REF Working Group.
Lucy is an Accredited Member of the Association of Higher Education Professionals ( AHEP ) since completing their Postgraduate Certificate in Higher Education Administration, Management and Leadership, which she passed in December 2023 with a Commendation.
Lucy has a BA (Hons) degree in History and French and has previously worked in Student & Academic Services at the University of York, Department of Biology.
Lucy joined the University of Suffolk in September 2021.
Outside of work, Lucy is a member of the Suffolk Guild of Ringers and volunteers regularly to ring church bells for Sunday services and other worship.
Lucy is involved in teaching new recruits within Ipswich to ring church bells and volunteers her time to support their development.
Lucy is also a member of the Ipswich Team that won the East Anglia Regional 12 Bell Striking Competition two years running in both 2022 and 2023.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/get-in-touch/people-directory/research/india-green:
India works closely with Academics across the University to identify and drive knowledge exchange activities, establish research and knowledge exchange partnerships, and develop lasting relationships between the University and local organisations.
She is responsible for co-ordinating collaborative projects between Academics and Organisations including: consultancy projects, Knowledge Transfer Partnerships, public and community engagement activities, and projects funded through innovation funding.
She also supports the delivery of the University’s Civic University Agreement commitments and pledges.
India joined the University in May 2021 as Business Development Manager for Crime & Social Justice/History & Heritage, working with both the School of Humanities and Social Sciences, and the Institute for Social Justice and Crime to grow their knowledge exchange engagement.
She moved into the Research and Knowledge Exchange Office (RKEO) in August 2024 in her current position as Knowledge Exchange Manager.
After graduating from Newcastle University with a BA (Hons) in Sociology in 2013, India spent some time in retail management at John Lewis in Newcastle, before joining British American Tobacco as a Strategy, Planning and Insights Executive at their UK office in London.
She then moved into the Marketing team as a Brand Executive, managing national and north-west Europe area projects for products and brands in the UK, Ireland, and Channel Islands portfolios until April 2020.
India relocated back to her home county of Suffolk at the end of 2020, working as a Project Coordinator for a Suffolk based telecommunications company managing projects for different Clinical Commissioning Groups, prior to joining the University.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/get-in-touch/people-directory/research/jenni-carberry:
Jenni is an experienced project management professional that has worked across Education, Financial, Public and Telecomms sectors.
Her passion is knowledge sharing and linking academics, graduates and businesses for mutual benefit in order for them to create, develop and grow.
Jenni uses her coaching and project management skills to create meaningful and innovative partnerships and loves to champion the University of Suffolk's academic and graduate talent, local businesses, charities and community organisations.
Outside of work, Jenni cares for adult family members and loves spending time with them as well as her husband and their rescue dogs and cats.
Jenni has an MSc in Career Coaching.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/kerri-stevenson:
Her role involves processing PhD applications and supporting students from their initial enquiry right through until the students complete their studies.
Kerri is originally from Warwickshire but moved to Suffolk in 2001.
Having worked in various office roles since leaving college, Kerri decided to study full time for a degree in History at the University of Suffolk, graduating in 2021.
She found this a very rewarding experience and hopes that her insight into the University from a student’s perspective, helps her to engage with and anticipate any concerns students might have.
Outside of work, Kerri still researches her dissertation, which is a labour of love, and hopes to publish her findings one day!

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/dr-kay-thompson:
Kay has over 25 years’ experience working within the higher education sector, including previous roles at the University of Essex, De Montfort University and the University of Hull.
Kay joined the University of Suffolk (then University Campus Suffolk) in 2013 to project manage the institution's successful application for Taught Degree Awarding Powers and University Title.
Following several years working in the University's Quality team, Kay became the Head of Academic and International Partnerships in 2022.
In March 2025, Kay began a two-year secondment in the Research and Knowledge Exchange Directorate, to lead the University towards achieving Research Degree Awarding Powers and making a more substantial submission to REF2029.
Kay possesses a first-class honours degree, a Master's degree and a PhD in the field of history.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/dr-jo-finch:
Dr Jo Finch is a highly experienced social work educator and doctoral supervisor.
She has been working in the higher education sector for over 23 years, with experience of teaching on a wide range of programmes, including: BA (Hons) Social Care, BA (Hons) Social Work, MA Social Work, post qualifying Practice Education courses, and Professional Doctorate Programmes (EdD, DSW).
She is known internationally for her work on practice learning and has published widely on this topic.
She also writes about PREVENT and social work, and undertakes commissioned research.
Jo began her career in social care, working with adults with learning disabilities.
She then trained as a social worker and worked in a number of London Boroughs as well as charities, in both adults and children and family settings.
She also worked as a play therapist and practice educator.
Jo then moved into teaching social work students in 2002, and has worked at a number of universities.
She is an experienced external examiner.
Jo completed a BA (Hons) Politics, at Newcastle University (1993); a Diploma in Social Work  and an MSc in Social Policy and Social Work studies at London School of Economics (1997); a Practice Teaching Award, Goldsmiths, (2001); a Post Graduate Diploma in Play Therapy, Surrey University; (2001); a PGCE (PCET) from Greenwich University (2007); and a Professional Doctorate in Social Work, Sussex University (2010).
Jo also has a level 5 Management and Coaching qualification.
Jo is currently supervising the following PHD projects
DSW/PhD Completions
Jo has taught on a  wide variety of modules previously on undergraduate and post graduate taught programmes including:
Jo is a highly experience  course leader, and  was formerly Director of the Professional Doctorate in social work at the University of East London where she also led the following taught modules
External Examining
Jo is a highly experienced external examiner of undergraduate and post graduate taught degrees as well as professional Doctorates and PhDs.
Current Research Projects
Research Skills
Publications
ORCID ID: 0000-0002-7813-0046
Books
Maclean, S., Finch, J.
& Tedam, P.
(2018) SHARE: A New Model for Social work, Kirwin Maclean Associates, Litchfield
Finch, J.
(2017) Supporting Struggling Students on Placement: A Practical Guide, Policy Press, Bristol
Journal Articles
Hoskin, J., James, B.
& Finch, J.
(2025) ‘More Than a Just a Physical Condition’ – Recognising the Educational and Emotional Needs of Children and Young Adults with Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy, European Journal of Special Educational Needs
Tedam, P and Finch, J.
(2024) “I just don’t have the energy to come in tomorrow”: Fast Tracking Racially Minoritised Social Work Students to Failure, British Journal of Social Work
and Corrie, S.
(2023) Undertaking Fitness to Practice Procedures on Accredited and regulatory programmes: A narrative review of the literature, Practice: Contemporary Issues in Practitioner Education, https://doi.org/10.1080/25783858.2023.2265291
McKendrick, D.
and Finch, J.
(2023) Using [un]popular culture in social work education: The Only Way is Essex and Katie Price : What Harvey Did Next, Social Work Education -  The international Journal , https://dx.doi.org/10.1080/02615479.2023.2257724
and Tedam, P.
(2023) Failure to Fail or Fast Tracking to Failure?:  A critical exploration of social work practice placements ,  Social Work Education – The International Journal https://doi.org/10.1080/02615479.2023.2236153
Kwiatkowska, G., Minnion, A & Finch, J.
(2021) The RIX Wiki: the use of multimedia advocacy to support person-centred planning in a special needs secondary school – implications for current policy and practice, Support for Learning
Hoskin, J.
(2020) Covid 19, Disability and the New Eugenics.
Implications for social work policy and practice, in Social Work 2020 under Covid, 4th Edition, 2nd June 2020, available from https://sw2020covid19.group.shef.ac.uk/category/fourth-edition/dr-janet-hoskin-dr-jo-finch/
McKendrick D.
(2020) Social Work, Covid 19 and Securitisation, in Social Work 2020 under Covid, 2nd Edition, 24th April 2020, available from https://sw2020covid19.group.shef.ac.uk/2020/04/24/social-work-covid-19-and-securitisation/
McKendrick.
D.
(2020) Pressure Drop: Securitising and De-Securitising Safeguarding, Aotearoa New Zealand Social Work, Vol 32 (1) pp:61-72
, Jonsson, J., Kamali, M.
& McKendrick, D.
(2019) Social Work and Countering Violent Extremism in Sweden and the UK, European Journal of Social Work
(2019) PREVENT, Safeguarding and The Common-Sensing of Social Work in the UK, Aotearoa New Zealand Social Work, Vol 31(2), 000–000.
(2017) Downpressor man: securitsation, safeguarding and social work, Critical and Radical Social Work,  Vol 5 (3) pp:287-300.
DOI.org/10.1332/204986017X15029697482460
(2016)  “…it’s just very hard to fail a student…” Decision making and defences against anxiety – an ethnographic and practice-near study of practice assessment panels.
Journal of Social Work Practice,  32 (1) pp:51-65 DOI: 10.1080/02650533.2016.1158156.
(2016) “Under Heavy Manners: Social Work, Radicalisation, Troubled Families and Non-linear War, British Journal of Social Work.
47 (2): 308-324.
(2014) “Running with the Fox and Hunting with the Hounds:” Social Work Tutors‘ Experiences of Managing Students Failing in Practice Learning Settings, British Journal of Social Work, volume 45 (7) pp:2124-2141
, Schaub, J.
& Dalrymple, R.
(2013) Projective Identification and the Fear of Failing: Making Sense of Practice Educators’ Emotional Experiences of Failing Social Work Students in Practice Learning Settings, Journal of Social Work Practice, Vol 28 (2), pp:139-154
and Poletti, I.
(2013) ‘It’s been hell.’ Italian and British Practice Educators’ Narratives of Working with Struggling or Failing Social Work Students in Practice Learning Settings, European Journal of Social Work, Vol 17 (1) pp:135-150  DOI: 10.1080/13691457.2013.800026
and Taylor, I.
(2013) The Emotional Experience of Assessing a Struggling or Failing Social Work Student in Practice Learning Settings, Special Edition – Field Education, Social Work Education, 32 (2) pp:244-258, DOI: 10.1080/02615479.2012.720250
Book Chapters
and Parker J.
(2023) The history and context of contemporary social work (including global social work) Parker, J.
(ed) Introducing Social Work, 2 nd Edition, London, Learning Matters, Sage
(2023) Looking After Yourself as a Social Worker in Parker, J.
McKendrick, D & Finch, J.
(2022) Widening the securitisation net in social work in, Webb, S.
(Ed) Routledge Handbook of Critical and  Radical Social Work (2nd edition), London, Routledge
, Hill, N.
& Rollins, W (2021) Assessment in Field Education, Capability, Competence and Contradictions in Egan, R., Hill, N., & Rollins, R (Eds) Challenges, Opportunities and Innovations in Social Work Field Work Education, Abingdon, Routledge
(2020) The history and context of contemporary social work (including global social work) Parker, J.
(ed) Introducing Social Work, London, Learning Matters, Sage
(2020) Looking After Yourself as a Social Work in Parker, J.
(ed) Introducing Social Work, London, Learning Matters, Sage
(2020) Emotions and the Importance of Personality in Development in Parker, J.
and Ashencean Crabtree, S.
(Eds) Human Growth and Development in Children and Young People: Theoretical and practice perspectives (Volume 1) Bristol, Policy Press
and McKendrick, D.
(2019) Securitising Social Work: Counter Terrorism, Extremism and Radicalisation in Webb, S.
(ed) Routledge Handbook of Critical Social Work, Routledge, London
(2017) "Yellow Star" in Doel (Ed) Social Work in 42 objects (or more) Kirwin Maclean Publishers
Finch , J.
and Poletti, A.
(2016) Italian and English Practice Educators Experiences of Working with Struggling or Failing Students in Practice Placements in  Taylor, I .et al (Eds) Routledge International Handbook of Social Work Education, Routledge, London
& Schaub, J.
(2015) Projective Identification as an Unconscious Defence: Social Work, Practice Education and the Fear of Failure.
in Armstrong, D.
& Rustin, M.(eds) Social Defences against Anxiety: Explorations in the Paradigm, Karnac, London
(2010) “It must be a fluke” – The Self-Perceptions of Learners Entering a College of Further and Higher Education, in Jones, P., Storan, J., Hudson, T and Brahma, J.
(eds) 'Towards a New Agenda for Lifelong Learning: Access, Diversity and Participation' Forum for Access and Continuing Education, ISBN 1-904133-42-8
Reports
, and McCulloch, K (2025) An Evaluation of Restitute, Confident Parent and Caring, Well Being and Health
, Crivatu, I.
& Howells, A.
(2023) Retaining and Rewarding Practice Educators in Norfolk and Suffolk – Towards Confident Practice, Suffolk and Norfolk Teaching Partnership, Suffolk County Council
Minnion, A.
Kwiatkowska, G., Watts, P., Finch, J.
& Wilkie, C., (2020) Rix media and Research Techforce Feasibility Report, Techforce
(2019) Supporting families that are experiencing domestic abuse and improving children’s mental health and wellbeing in the London Borough of Redbridge.
London Borough of Redbridge and Barnados
Briggs, S .
, & Farah, F.
(2019) Evaluation of Grassroots men at risk of suicide project, East Sussex County Council
Briggs, S., Farah, F., Hamblin- Opaluwa, L., Finch, J.
(2017) Evaluation of Counselling Partnership - Survivors of Suicide to inform future provision and commissioning, East Sussex County Council
Briggs, S., Farah, F.
Hamblin- Opaluwa, L, Finch, J.
(2017) Evaluation of Grassroots training programme to inform future provision and commissioning, East Sussex County Council
Briggs, S., Finch, J.
and Firth, R.
(2016) Evaluation of a non-statutory ‘Place of Calm’ ,a service which provides support after a suicidal crisis to inform future commissioning intentions, Centre for Social Work Research, University of East London http://recovery-partners.co.uk/mailouts/Anna/PlaceofCalmFinalReport.pdf
(2013) A Critical Exploration of Practice Assessment Panels: Participation, power, emotional and decision making in relation to failing social work students, York, Higher Education Academy, http://www.heacademy.ac.uk/resources/detail/disciplines/hsc/Social-Work-and-Social-Policy/A_critical_exploration_of_PAP_Finch
(2010) An Analysis of Higher Education Student Progression in a College of Further Education, London, Havering College of Further and Higher Education.
(2009) Communities and Widening Participation in Higher Education in the London Borough of Barking and Dagenham, Higher Education Funding Council of England/University of East London, London.
DOI: 10.13140/RG.2.1.5113.9602
(2006) The Needs and Expectations of Higher Education Learners in a Further Education College, Havering College of Further and Higher Education, London.
DOI: 10.13140/RG.2.1.1327.5360
(2005) A small-scale evaluation of tutor support given to practice teachers where there are concerns about marginal or failing students, Falmer, University of Sussex.
DOI:10.13140/RG.2.1.4393.9603
(2005) A Critical Analytical Study: The Assessment of Marginal and/or Failing Students in Placement, Falmer, University of Sussex.
DOI: 10.13140/RG.2.1.5114.8567
Selected Key Notes Speeches
(2024), Setting the Scene: A brief history of change in social work policy, practice and education.
Festival of Practice Learning, Practice Educators Conference, University of Suffolk, June 2024
(2023) “The History of Practice Learning – where are we now?” Southampton, Hampshire, Isle of Wight, Portsmouth Social Work Education Network, Practice Learning Conference, July 2023
(2023) Being Curious, being Courageous, The Emotional Experience of Working with a Struggling or Failing Social Work Student on Placement, Festival of Practice Learning, University of Suffolk, June 2023
(2023) Working Positively with Social Work Students Struggling in Placement, Social Care Wales Practice Learning Hub, March 2023
(2023) Courageous Conversations: Working with Struggling Students in Practice Learning Settings, Derbyshire and Nottingham Teaching Partnership, Practice Learning Conference, February 2023

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/professor-miranda-horvath:
She is co-editor of the second edition of The Cambridge Handbook of Forensic Psychology (2021, Cambridge University Press) and is currently editing the second edition of her extremely successful co-edited text Rape: Challenging Contemporary Thinking (2022, Routledge).
In 2020 Professor Horvath founded the Violence Against Women and Girls Research Network which brings together researchers providing opportunities to meet regularly, share ongoing, completed and planned research in a supportive environment.
Professor Horvath has nearly 20 years of research experience.
Throughout her career Professor Horvath has worked closely with the third sector, businesses, law enforcement agencies, health services and policy makers to ensure that her research and teaching are focused on practical solutions to real-world problems and creating change.
Funding for Professor Horvath’s research has been gained from a wide range of funders including Against Violence & Abuse, Avon & Somerset Police, National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children, Office of the Children’s Commissioner, NHS, Ministry of Justice, Home Office, British Transport Police, Tender Education & Arts, and The Government Equalities Office.
Professor Horvath is often asked to provide expert advice on policy and practice developments to national and local statutory and non-statutory organisations (e.g.
Department for Culture, Media and Sport; Ministry of Justice, Home Office, Mayor’s Office for Policing and Crime, numerous police forces).
In 2013 Professor Horvath was the David Jenkins Chair in Forensic and Legal Medicine (an honorary Chair awarded annually to a ‘person of eminence’ by the Faculty of Forensic and Legal Medicine .
Professor Horvath is regularly invited to deliver talks at national and international conferences to practitioners, policy makers and academics and in 2018 she debated at the Cambridge Union about #MeToo .
She is often approached by journalists seeking comment or advice and has been quoted by the BBC , Guardian and the New York Times .
Professor Horvath is experienced in developing and delivering courses for traditional undergraduate and postgraduate students as well as professional cohorts.
During her time as the David Jenkins Chair in Forensic and Legal Medicine she contributed to the Faculty of Forensic and Legal Medicines’ of the Royal College of Physicians CPD programme.
Professor Horvath also has a long track record of excellent teaching and administration at the university level.
She regularly uses online and innovative teaching methods and was awarded the University of Surrey Teaching with New Technology Award in 2009.
In 2020 she was nominated for the Middlesex University student-led teaching award for ‘Outstanding Wellbeing & Student Support’.
In the past Professor Horvath was the programme leader for the MSc in Forensic Psychology at Middlesex University.
Professor Horvath has extensive external examining and reviewing experience including for University of Birmingham, Huddersfield University, Bucks New University, University of Kent, University of Gloucestershire, Queensland University of Technology Australia, University of South Wales, University of Granada Spain and the National Policing Improvement Agency.
Current PhD Students
Ngozi Fulani, thesis title: How does African/Caribbean Music inform Domestic Abuse and Racism in the UK African & Caribbean Heritage Community.
Supervisor with Dr Katherine Allen (Primary supervisor) and Dr Rzepnikowska Phillips.
Olga Khokhlova, thesis title: Perception of marital rape: the role of level of resistance, sexual deprivation and jealousy.
Primary supervisor with Dr Katherine Allen and Dr Nishtha Lamba (Middlesex University Dubai)
India Ingram-Hawkes, thesis title: Harm in policing .
Funded by Operation Soteria Bluestone, candidate based at Bournemouth University.
Supervisor with Dr Kari Davies (Primary Supervisor) and Dr Mark Manning.
Lily Hill, thesis title: Trajectories of sex offenders.
Supervisor with Dr Kari Davies (Primary Supervisor) and Dr Terri Cole.
Zoe Callon, thesis title: Rape myths and stereotypes in policing.
Supervisor with Dr Kari Davies (Primary Supervisor).
Sophie Barrett, thesis title: Interpersonal behaviours of sex offenders.
Arianna Barbin, thesis title: Specialism in Policing Rape and Sexual Offences.
University of Suffolk.
Funded by Operation Soteria Bluestone.
Prinary supervisor with Dr Kari Davies (Bournemouth University) and Dr Mark Manning.
Ioana Crivatu, thesis title: Factors Prompting Decisions to Walk Away from Opportunities of MPR: A Mixed-methods Investigation.
Primary Supervisor with Dr Jeffrey DeMarco (Middlesex University)
Ellouise Long, thesis title: A proposed typology of trolling using smallest space analysis.
Candidate based at Middlesex University.
Supervisor with Dr Susan Hansen (Primary supervisor)
PhD Students Supervised to Completion
Maria Scally, thesis title; Child custody in the context of Intimate Partner Violence and Abuse.
(Awarded 2022) Primary supervisor with Professor Joanna Adler, University of Hertfordshire, Dr Jeffrey DeMarco, Middlesex University and Professor Antonia Bifulco, Middlesex University.
Feyishola Apena-Rogers, thesis title: Understanding the commission process of sex offending on London railways: An integrated theoretical framework.
(Awarded, 2019).
Funded by British Transport Police.
Primary supervisor with Professor Joanna Adler, University of Hertfordshire and Dr Jackie Gray, Middlesex University.
Astra Kassirim, thesis title: Indo- and Afro-Trinidadian women’s experience of domestic violence, somatization disorder and help-seeking: A mixed methodological analysis (Awarded, 2015).
Funded by the Trinidad and Tobago Government.
Primary supervisor with Dr Susan Hansen, Middlesex University and Dr Paul De Mornay Davies, Middlesex University.
Mackenzie Lambine, thesis title: Male Peer Support and Self-Regulation in Multiple Perpetrator Rape.
(Awarded, 2015).
Primary supervisor with Professor Joanna Adler, University of Hertfordshire.
Professor Horvath’s research interests are focused on violence against women and girls (VAWG) and the professionals and agencies who work with victim-survivors and perpetrators.
She has extensive research experience having conducted national and local multi-site, multi team, multi-strand evaluation and research projects in a range of applied forensic and community settings, including projects with a focus on women and children who have experienced sexual and domestic violence.
Professor Horvath uses mixed-methods in her research.
Professor Horvath is currently Pillar 1 lead for Project Bluestone/Operation Soteria research on the Investigation and intelligence of rape and serious sexual assault suspects funded by the Home Office.
Professor Horvath’s research on police investigations of rape and serious sexual offending, young people and pornography, lads mags, multiple perpetrator has attracted much national and international media attention including appearances on: BBC3; Woman's Hour and Call You & Yours on Radio 4, Voice of Russia, ABC Radio National (Australia), Spin 103.8 (Ireland) and coverage in various national newspapers and magazines in the UK, USA, Australia, Russia, Ireland and India.
Professor Horvath is an editorial board member of Women’s Studies International Forum and was an Associate Editor for the Journal of Sexual Aggression between 2099-2017.
She regularly provides peer reviews for journals, publishers and funders, including:
Journals: Psychology, Crime and Law; Legal and Criminological Psychology; Thirdspace;  Crime, Law and Social Change; Journal of Police and Criminal Psychology, Feminist Criminology; Journal of Interpersonal Violence; Sex Roles: A Journal of Research; British Journal of Social Psychology; Sexual Abuse: A Journal of Research and Treatment, Child Abuse & Neglect; Culture, Health & Sexuality; the International Journal for Crime Justice and Social Democracy; Journal of Criminal Justice; Gender & History; Qualitative Methods in Psychology (QMiP) Bulletin; Transportation Research Part A: Policy and Practice; Journal of Sexual Aggression.
Publishers : Willan; Routledge, Palgrave Macmillan.
Funders : Economic and Social Research Council; Nuffield Foundation; Home Office; Sigrid Rausing Trust, The Harry Frank Guggenheim Foundation; The Royal Society of New Zealand: Marsden Fund; Ministry of Justice; Independent Inquiry into Child Sexual Abuse; Centre of Expertise on Child Sexual Abuse.
Public Output from Research and Scholarly Activity
Peer Reviewed Articles and Reports
Gekoski, A., Massey, K., Allen, K., Ferreira, J., Dalton, C.T., Horvath, M.A.H .
& Davies, K.
(In press).
“A lot of the time it's dealing with victims who don't want to know, it's all made up, or they've got mental health”: Rape myths in a large English police force.
International Review of Victimology.
Davies, K.
& Horvath, M.A.H.
(2022).
Project Bluestone: Improving UK policing’s response to rape and serious sexual offending - Editorial.
International Criminology, 2, 219-221.
https://doi-org.ezp.lib.cam.ac.uk/10.1007/s43576-022-00066-x
Davies, K., Spence, R., Cummings, E., Cross, M.
Understanding sexual violence and factors related to police outcomes.
Frontiers in Psychology, https://doi.org/10.3389/fpsyg.2022.977318
Norman, J., Fox, A., Harding, H., Majid, A., Williams, E., Davies, K.
Critical reflection: The importance of case reviews and reflective practice in RASSO investigations.
International Criminology, 2, 276-285 .
https://doi.org/10.1007/s43576-022-00061-2
Brown, J.M., Figueiredo, M.S., Horvath, M.A.H.
Taking stock; a review of the state of forensic psychology as revealed through an analysis of journal articles 2015-20.
Journal of Forensic Psychology Research and Practice.
https://doi.org/10.1080/24732850.2022.2088326
Dalton, T., Barrett, S., Horvath, M.A.H .
A Systematic Literature Review of Specialist Policing of Rape and Serious Sexual Offences.
International Criminology, 2, 230-252, https://doi.org/10.1007/s43576-022-00062-1
Spence, R., Horvath, M.A.H., Dalton, T.
Impacts of the Covid-19 pandemic on reporting of rape, serious sexual offences, and domestic abuse in one English police force.
Journal of Gender Based Violence, https://doi.org/10.1332/239868021X16425806897258
Daly, E., Smith, O., Bows, H., Brown, J.M., Chalmers, J., Cowan, S., Horvath, M.A.H., Leverick, F., Lovett, J., Munro, V.
& Willmott, D.
Myths about Myths?
A Commentary on Thomas (2020) and the Question of Jury Rape Myth Acceptance.
Journal of Gender Based Violence.
https://doi.org/10.1332/239868021X16371459419254
Authored Books:
Edited Books:
Book Chapters:
Other Reports:
Other Forms of Public Output:
Professor Horvath has extensive business engagement experience and has worked with a wide range of statutory and non-statutory organisations, NGOs and Charities including Lime Culture, the Department of Social Services Australian Government, the Home Office, BBC, British Psychological Society and British Transport Police.
Professor Horvath is a Chartered Psychologist (CPsychol) and Associate Fellow of the British Psychological Society.
She is a member of the Division of Forensic Psychology, British Psychological Society.
She is a Fellow of the Higher Education Academy.
Professor Horvath is the founder of the VAGWRN , she is a member of the LEX Network ; the Violence, Abuse and Mental Health Network and the End Violence Against Women Coalition .

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/dr-paul-andell:
Dr Paul Andell is an Associate Professor of Criminology at the University of Suffolk.
His research focuses on serious youth violence, child criminal exploitation, and gangs, with a particular interest in co-produced and policy-relevant approaches to harm reduction and safeguarding.
Paul was awarded a British Academy Innovation Fellowship in 2022, supporting his work on practitioner-informed interventions in response to County Lines.
In recognition of the real-world impact of his research, he also received a Prize for Policy Impactful Research from the American Society of Criminology.
On behalf of the University of Suffolk, Paul has co-produced the National Lived Experience Training on Child Criminal Exploitation in partnership with the National County Lines Coordination Centre, shaping national safeguarding practice through lived experience insights.
He has published widely on criminal exploitation, serious youth violence, and gang dynamics, including academic books, peer-reviewed articles, and commissioned reports that have influenced both national and international policy agendas.
Paul is Course Leader for the MA in Criminology, Crime and Victimisation on which he teaches, Theories of Crime and Deviance, Collaborative Working and Partnerships, Deviant Youth Groups and Gangs and Dissertation Supervision.
Paul also contributes to undergrad teaching and is module  leader for Victimology and Drugs and Society.
Paul supervises PhD projects in the fields of Youth Crime and Gangs, Alternative Economies and Victimisation and Vulnerability.
Youth Offending, Youth Justice and Youth Leadership, Gangs, Community Safety and Drugs.
Selected publications (see ORCID ID: 0000-0002-4879-4204 for full listing)
Peer Reviewed
Andell P.
and J.McMannus (2002) Addressing Local Drug Markets.
Safer Communities.
London, Willan.
and Pitts J.
(2017) Preventing the violent and sexual victimisation of vulnerable-gang involved and gang-affected children and young people in Ipswich.
A Report for Suffolk’s Public Health and Community Safety Team.
ISBN 978-1-913160-04-3
(2017) Developing a Context for Change in Gang Affected Neighbourhoods.
Procedia of Economics and Business Administration.
(2018) The End of the Line?
The Impact of County Lines Drug Distribution on Youth Crime in a Target Destination.
Youth and Policy.
https://www.youthandpolicy.org/articles/the-end-of-the-line/
(2019) Addressing County Lines : Praxis for Community Safety Practitioners.
Safer Communities, London.
https://www.emerald.com/insight/content/doi/10.1108/SC-02-2019-0006/full/html
(2019) Thinking Seriously About Gangs.
Towards a Critical Realist Approach.
London, Sydney Palgrave (Monograph).
https://www.palgrave.com/gb/book/9783030128906 (Nominated for British Society of Criminology Book Award 2020).
(2019) Theory into practice: County Lines, violence and changes to drug markets.
https://www.youthandpolicy.org/articles/county-lines-violence-drug-markets/
(2020) Gangs, Violence and County lines; in Lane et al.
Ed.
International Handbook on Collective Violence: Current Issues and Perspectives, London.
(2021) Utilising Southern Criminology in the Overstandings of English Gang Research in Brotherton, D.
C.
and Gude R.Ed.
International Handbook of Critical Gang Studies.
London Routledge (forthcoming).
James D.
and D.
Rup Maiter (2021) County lines and changes to the middle markets in the UK.
Ayers T.
Understanding Drug Dealing and Illicit Drug Markets in the 21st Century: National and International Perspectives.
London Routledge (Forthcoming).
Andell and Pitts J.
(2021) The UK Handbook of Youth Gangs.
London, Sydney Palgrave.
& Pitts J (2023) The Palgrave UK Handbook of Gangs (eds) London.
Palgrave.
Papers Book Chapters and Committee Reports
Andell P (submitted) Missing and Lost: Structural Violence, Social Harm, and Missing Children in Ayres P, Briggs,D.
Kelly C.
Lost, Bristol Policy Press.
Andell P and Gray K.
(2025)  Regional Policing Responses to Organised Crime.
In Hart, M.
Bahadur Lamb, J.
Adam Lynes, A.
Treadwell J.
and Kelly C.
(eds) 50 Facts Everyone Should Know About the Police.
Bristol.
Policy Press.
Andell P, Grey, K.
and Nelson, P.
(2025) Submission of Written Evidence to the Children's Wellbeing and Schools Bill Committee Subject: Addressing the Vulnerability of Looked After Children to Criminal Exploitation and the Risks of Unregulated Care Homes and Lodgings.
Andell P (2024) Published Submission to the All Party Select Committee on Human Trafficking.
Boyd C & Andell P (2024) Re-inventing the Resettlement of Prison Leavers in the UK.
Housing First, Rehabilitation Last.
In  Mahoney, I.
and Chowdhury, R.
(eds) Holistic responses to reducing reoffending.
London.
Rup Maiter (2023) County lines and changes to the middle markets in the UK.
Andell, P.
(2023) 'Child criminal exploitation and community development in Bedfordshire'.
British Academy Report.
(2023) 'Waltham Forest research report: co-production in addressing child criminal exploitation’.
Andell P (2023) Addressing Criminal Exploitation in HMPPS.
Andell, P and Pitts J.
Andell P (2021) Applying Southern Criminology to the Global North in Brotherton, D, Gude R.(Eds) Routledge International Handbook of Critical Gang Studies.
Andell P (2019) Theory into practice: County Lines, violence and changes to drug markets.
(2019) Addressing County Lines: Praxis for Community Safety Practitioners.
Safer Communities Emerald.
(2019) Gangs and Violence; In Lane et al (Eds): International Handbook on Collective Violence: Current Issues and Perspectives, Routledge.
Andell P and Pitts J (2018) Addressing Criminal Exploitation of Children and Vulnerable Adults in Ipswich.
A Report for Suffolk County Council.
Paul has a significant experience in training for Criminal Justice Professionals and was previously a CPD Trainer for Ambessa Training.
Paul has provided training in County lines for Probation Officers, Early Help Teams, School Governors and Investigators.
Paul was a Script Advisor for the BBC Soap EastEnders.
Paul has delivered consultancy projects for Home Office, Rugby House, West Yorkshire Police, Lambeth Gangs Team.
Paul is a member or the international research group, Eurogangs.
He is also a member of European Society of Criminology.
Paul presents regularly at international conferences.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/dr-cristian-dogaru:
Dr Dogaru is an Associate Professor at the University of Suffolk with over 20 years of interdisciplinary professional and academic experience spanning medicine, epidemiology, and social sciences.
A paediatrician-turned-social scientist, he holds a medical degree from the University of Medicine and Pharmacy in Romania and a PhD in Human Development and Family Sciences from Oregon State University, USA.
He has played a key leadership role in the development and implementation of the Civic University Agreement (CUA), a strategic initiative aimed at strengthening the University of Suffolk’s engagement with the local community.
Through extensive consultation and collaboration with external stakeholders, Cristian helped shape the university’s civic mission, guiding principles, and governance structures.
In addition, he has successfully led and finalized the University of Suffolk’s compliance with the Assured Organisational Connectivity (AOC) framework, ensuring secure and accredited remote access to research data in alignment with UK GDPR and Digital Economy Act standards
Cristian has nearly 20 years of teaching experience in Higher Education, with expertise spanning human development, developmental psychology, special educational needs and disabilities (SEND), and a strong teaching portfolio in research methodology — particularly quantitative research, secondary research, and systematic review methodologies.
He has played a pivotal role in curriculum development, including:
Cristian is committed to interdisciplinary, cross-programme approaches to research methodology education, integrating quantitative, qualitative, and mixed-methods research training.
Cristian’s research interests sit at the intersection of:
Major Research Projects
Recent research projects include:
Throughout his career Cristian has been involved in over 20 research projects, both national and international, as Principal Investigator, co-Principal Investigator, and collaborator.
Selected Publications
See ORCID ID: 0000-0002-0722-6147 for full listing
After completing his PhD in 2008, Cristian worked as a Research Fellow at the Institute for Social and Preventive Medicine (ISPM), University of Bern, Switzerland, managing the Swiss National Science Foundation-funded study on breastfeeding and childhood asthma.
This resulted in:
Cristian has a strong publication record, including:
Cristian is actively engaged internationally, contributing to research policy, academic collaboration, and mobility programs.
Cristian continues to develop cross-border research collaborations, ensuring that his research and teaching maintain an international perspective.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/get-in-touch/people-directory/research/linda-cooper:
She has helped influence national policy on police investigations of rape and serious sexual offences (RASSO).
Dr Cooper is an established researcher with a portfolio of work in policing, education and veterans in the criminal justice system.
Prior to her appointment at the University of Suffolk, Dr Cooper was working on a nationally significant project called Operation Soteria, which helped develop a new National Operating Model for the 43 police forces across England and Wales, to use in investigating RASSO.
Dr Cooper had been a part of the team working on the role of officer learning, development and wellbeing, as well as the implementation of the change programme of work and a review of the public protection curriculum.
That project included work with police practitioners, the Mayor’s Office for Policing and Crime in London, and as academic liaison with the National Police Chiefs’ Council Joint Unit Team.
Her research has already aligned closely with the work of the ISJC, which has already carried out important work for Operation Soteria – suspect-focused investigations and disrupting repeat suspects.
Dr Cooper is continuing her association with the Operation Soteria team with secondary data analysis.
Further projects include the police approach and processes to deal with officer wellbeing in the context of domestic abuse investigations.
Dr Cooper is additionally project lead on a review of sexual violence provision in Suffolk.
Previous learning and teaching responsibilities include: Postgraduate and Doctoral studies: PhD completions and viva voce examination chair.
Academic mentor to early career colleagues.
Lead for Post Graduate Researcher (PGR) teaching of synchronous and asynchronous workshops, PGR Induction week, skills development workshops and online learning.
Creator of postdoctoral alumni network and Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) series.
Identification of all PGR development opportunities.
Chair for numerous online and face-to-face viva voce examinations.
Doctoral School support, designing and delivering workshops and compulsory training to MA, PhD and EdD practitioners and researchers.
Undergraduate study: Supervising Police Constable Degree Apprenticeship (PCDA) undergraduate students.
BA Education & Childhood Studies, MA (Education) and doctoral training pathways.
Lectures and seminar groups and tutorials.
Overseeing levels 4-6 (320 students), providing solutions to improve the content, teaching, learning and assessment phases of taught modules, quality assurance and on-going appraisal of NSS surveys; involvement in publicity and events for recruitment, UCAS application referrals and overall enhancement of the student experience.
Consultancy: the SkillForce Veterans’ Programme, a peer mentor scheme for veterans in the CJS and Barnardo’s Families of Veterans Support Service (CJS).
An invited member on the Expert Steering Group for a further Barnardo’s project, ‘Veterans in Custody Scheme’.
Lead researcher with the Service Children’s Progression Alliance (SCiP), supporting young people from military families.
Project Lead for a UK wide audit of veteran-specific support for veterans in the CJS, in collaboration with His Majesty’s Prison and Probation Service (HMPPS).
A Veteran Support Map ( https://mod.co-financing.org/veteran-support-map/ ) was produced for veterans in the CJS and their families to signpost to guidance, in association with HMPPS.
Current: Advisory Board member – Subject Matter Expert and PhD supervisor, Aarhus University, Denmark.
The VET>EDU programme: Transformation learning of student veterans in transition
https://pure.au.dk/portal/en/projects/vetedu-transformative-learning-of-student-veterans-in-transition-
Book chapter with NATO members
Cooper, L., Caddick, N., Godier-McBard, L., Lewis, N., Harrison, K., and Fossey, M., 2019.
The transition of military veterans from active service to military life.
Chapter 6, Country Report: United Kingdom.
North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) STO Technical Report – HFM-RTG-263.
Collaboration with the University of Tartu, Estonia
Laanapere, T., Truussa, T-T., and Cooper, L., 2018.
Military legacy: use it or lose it?
Sõjateadlane, Estonian Journal of Military Studies.
No 6: p22-51.
Fellow of Advanced HE
European Society of Criminology (ESC) Global Law Enforcement and Public Health Association (GLEPHA) Violence Against Women Domestic Abuse and Sexual Violence (VAWDASV) Research Network, Wales All-Wales Policing and Academic Collaboration (AWPAC) Society of Evidence Based Policing (SEBP)
Advisory Board member – Subject Matter Expert, Aarhus University, Denmark (current) Expert Steering Group – Barnardo’s Veterans in Custody Scheme (ViCS) Cobseo CJS Research Cluster The Essex Civilian and Military Partnership Board (CMPB)
British Educational Research Association (BERA) British Sociological Association (BSA) East Midlands Doctoral Researcher Network (EMDR)
Reviewer for the following journals and publishers: Military Psychology, Perspectives in Public Health, Armed Forces & Society, Families, Relationships and Societies, Critical Education Policy Studies, Bloomsbury Press and Palgrave.
Member of BERA’s Members and Engagement and Post Graduate Steering Committees Reviewer of abstracts for BERA international conferences, Awards Committee and conference abstracts

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/dr-isabella-boyce:
Dr Isabella Calder is a Senior Lecturer in Criminology, teaching on both the BSc (Hons) Criminology and MA Criminology courses.
Isabella is a co-leader of research into Crime People, Justice and Security at the Institute of Social Justice and is undertaking research around the use of top-up-shops.
She supervises a number of PhD students in areas such as: Indeterminate and Life prison sentences; Internet Platforms and Sex Work; Homelessness, and Crypto Drugs Markets.
Teaching Expertise
Academic Background
After obtaining her PhD from the London School of Economics and Political Science (LSE), Isabella went on to become a Research Associate at the University of Cambridge (CCHPR) and then King’s College London (ICPR).
Following on from research, Isabella went in to teaching, first as a class teacher at the LSE and then as a lecturer at the University of the West of Scotland.
Research Projects
Isabella has worked on, designed and managed a number of research projects and evaluations for: The Ministry of Justice; National Health Service; Metropolitan Police Service; Local Government as well as charities including the Royal Society of Arts and the St Giles Trust.
Much of her research has focused on the Police and Prison Service.
Currently undertaking research with colleagues on the regional challenge of re-homing rough sleepers during the Covid-19 pandemic, with a focus on Suffolk.
See ORCID ID: 0000-0003-0583-2159 for full listing

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/maureen-haaker:
Maureen joined University of Suffolk in 2014 and is a senior lecturer for Childhood Studies.
She is a sociologist whose research centres on constructions of the body, reproductive politics, and subjectivity and was awarded a PhD in sociology from University of Essex.
Prior to her appointment, Maureen worked as a data archivist specialising in curation and reuse of qualitative datasets.
She is a co-editor of IASSIST’s Qualitative Social Science and Humanities Data Interest Group and member of the NCRM International Network on Qualitative Archives and Data Reuse.
She has published student texts on research methods and data management.
Maureen is a senior lecturer for courses in childhood and education, including BA (Hons) Childhood, BA (Hons) Childhood with QTS, MA Childhood Studies, and Early Years and Primary Practice programmes.
She teaches on embodiment, research methods, social theory, and sociology.
Maureen is also able to supervise a range of PhD topics, including substantive topics related to reproduction, embodiment, and gender politics.
She can also supervise projects looking at methodological advancements, including issues related to qualitative data, including curation, processing of qualitative data, and data management (including anonymisation, consent, and access issues).
Maureen's research interests are wide-ranging, from more theoretical explorations focusing on subjectivity, constructions of the body, and reproductive politics to methodological and ethical issues of data management of qualitative data.
She has also research pedagogies in higher education, receiving funding from the University of Suffolk’s Centre for Learning and Teaching, looking at enhancing student resilience and decolonising the curriculum.
Selected publications (see ORCID ID: 0000-0002-9487-5590 for full listing)
Haaker, M.
(2019) Little quick fix: choosing a statistical test.
London: Sage.
Book chapters
(2020) 'Qualitative secondary analysis in teaching' in Hughes, K.
and Tarrant, A.
Qualitative Secondary Analysis.
London: Sage, pp 119-134.
Haaker, M., Corti, L., and Van den Eynden, V.
(2020) 'Documenting and providing context for data' in Managing and sharing research data: a guide to good practice.
2nd edn., London: Sage, pp.
70-101.
(2020) 'Formatting, organising and transforming data' in Managing and sharing research data: a guide to good practice.
102-134.
Van den Eynden, V., Woollard, M., Summers, S., Bishop, L., Haaker, M.
and Corti, L.
(2020) 'Disclosure review, access control and anonymisation' in Managing and sharing research data: a guide to good practice.
196-215.
Corti, L., Haaker, M., and Van den Eynden, V.
(2020) 'Making use of other people's research data: opportunities and limitations' in Managing and sharing research data: a guide to good practice.
240-274.
(2020) 'Publishing and citing research data' in Managing and sharing research data: a guide to good practice.
275-307.
Journal articles
and Bethany, M.
B.
(2017) ‘Developing research-led teaching: two cases of practical data reuse in the classroom’, Sage Open, 7(2), DOI: 10.1177/2158244017701800.
Conferences
Invited to present at IMISCOE 2020, “Crossing Borders, Connecting Cultures”, in Esch-zur-Alzette, Luxembourg.
30 June – 2 July 2020.
Selected from submitted abstract to speak at IASSIST 2020, “Data by Design” Gothenberg, Sweden, 19-22 May 2020
Invited to present at CLARIN EU-funded conference, “Oral History: Users and their Scholarly Practices in a Multidisciplinary World”, University of Munich, Germany, 19-21 September 2018
Invited to present at “Ethical Considerations for Publishing Qualitative Data”, Sheffield Hallam University, 14 May 2018
Invited to present at “Challenges and Opportunities in Sharing Qualitative Data”, University of York, 6 June 2018
Invited to present on the panel “Achieving Transparency in Qualitative Research: Practical Solutions”, Research Methods Festival, University of Bath, 4-7 July 2018
Invited to lead workshop session for “The Gold Standard of Reproducible Research: How to make it work for quantitative and qualitative research” on 9 March 2017, University of Nottingham
Invited speaker at DataFest 2017, “Re-using qualitative data”, 21 March 2017, Edinburgh, Scotland
Invited as consultant for workshop on “Transcription chain” tools, hosted by CLARIN EU, 9-13 May 2017 in Arezzo, Italy
Invited as keynote speaker to Childwebert’s BeSmartOnline!
conference held in Malta, November 2015, paper titled “Virtual harm?
Critical Perspectives on Self-Injury and Eating Disorders”.
Presented paper at British Sociological Association’s annual conference, April 2015, paper titled “A Deeper Understanding of the ast: Reflections from Archiving and Re-using Qualitative Data”
Invited to present at University of Suffolk’s Safer Internet Event, February 2015, paper titled, “Virtual Harm?”
Maureen works with the Suffolk County Council to devise and convene CPD short courses which tackle issues faced by practitioners working with children.
Currently, she is working with the Suffolk Virtual School and Suffolk County Council’s Psychology and Therapeutic Service to deliver a module which explores new interventions and ways of working with children in care.
Maureen plays an active role in mapping of international standards on the curation of qualitative data and its accompanying metadata.
As part of this work, she is on the DDI Alliance working group for qualitative data.
She also helps with organisation and events for IASSIST.
In 2019, Maureen co-organised an ESRC-funded seminar, “Capturing Testimony of the Contemporary Migrant Crisis”, which brought to together researchers, research participants, and third sector organisations from around the UK, Europe, and the Middle East to discuss how to share migration data for maximum impact without compromising safeguards of research participants.
She’s also been involved in a series of workshops in Italy and Germany, funded by CLARIN EU, on how to transcribe, analyse, and share oral history transcripts.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/dr-alina-rzepnikowska:
Dr Alina Rzepnikowska Phillips is a Senior Lecturer in Sociology and Politics and Course Leader for the BA (Hons) Sociology.
Her teaching and research focus on ethnicity, migration, gender, conviviality, racism, and xenophobia.
Alina holds a BA (Hons) in Race and Ethnic Studies with Spanish from the University of Central Lancashire and an AHRC-funded MA in European Languages and Cultures (Cultures of Migration, Diaspora and Exile pathway).
She also completed a PGCE at Manchester Metropolitan University and taught in secondary education before earning her AHRC-funded PhD from The University of Manchester in 2016.
Her doctoral research explored the experiences of migrant women in Manchester and Barcelona and led to her book Convivial Cultures in Multicultural Cities , published in the Studies in Migration and Diaspora series.
Her research has appeared in leading journals such as Journal of Ethnic and Migration Studies and Gender, Place and Culture .
Alina has also led participatory research on labour exploitation, human trafficking, modern slavery, and domestic violence in Greater Manchester.
Her recent work examines racialised political discourses surrounding migration at the Polish-Belarussian border.
In 2024, she received the Outstanding Contribution Staff Award from the University of Suffolk Students’ Union.
Alina is a committed and inclusive educator, passionate about empowering students to reach their full potential.
Dr Alina Rzepnikowska Phillips is an experienced lecturer and a Fellow of the Higher Education Academy (FHEA), with a strong track record of teaching across undergraduate and postgraduate levels.
She has previously taught at the University of Central Lancashire, University College London, and the University of Manchester, delivering a broad range of social science modules including: Racism and Ethnicity in the UK , Multicultural Britain , Migration and Health , Contemporary Social Thought , Sociology of Personal Life , Research Design , Creative Methods , and Sociology PhD Workshops .
Since joining the University of Suffolk in 2021, Alina has taken on the role of Sociology Course Leader, contributing actively to curriculum development.
She currently teaches modules such as Sociological Imagination , Migration and Ethnicity , Racialisation, Racism & Resistance , Gender and Sexuality , Policy and Politics , and Understanding Research .
Alina is also an experienced supervisor of undergraduate and master’s dissertations and actively supports PhD students throughout their research journey.
She is committed to providing effective, student-focused supervision that nurtures independent thinking and academic growth.
Alina’s teaching philosophy is rooted in inclusivity, participation, and research-led, student-centered learning.
Academic Journal Articles
Rzepnikowska, A.
(2023) ‘Racialisation of Polish migrants in the UK and in Spain (Catalonia)’, Journal of Ethnic and Migration Studies , 49(6), pp.
1517–1533.
(2020) ‘Migrant experiences of conviviality in the context of Brexit’, Central and Eastern European Migration Review , 9(1), pp.
65–83.
(2019) ‘Racism and xenophobia experienced by Polish migrants in the UK before and after Brexit vote’, Journal of Ethnic and Migration Studies , 45(1), pp.
61–77.
(2018) ‘Polish migrant women’s narratives about language, racialised and gendered difference in Barcelona’, Gender, Place & Culture , 25(6), pp.
850–865.
(2017) ‘Conviviality in the workplace: The case of Polish migrant women in Manchester and Barcelona’, Central and Eastern European Migration Review , 6(2), pp.
51–68.
(2016) ‘Convivial cultures in Manchester and Barcelona: Exploring the narratives of Polish migrant women’, Migration Studies – Polish Diaspora Review , 42(2), pp.
119–134.
(2016) ‘Imagining and encountering the Other in Manchester and Barcelona: The narratives of Polish migrant women’, Journal of the Institute of Ethnology and Anthropology (Special Issue: Postsocialist Mobilities), 15, pp.
55–108.
and Duda-Mikulin, E.A.
(2025) ‘Poland’s right-wing constructions of the Others at the Polish-Belarussian border (2021–2023)’, in Novais, R.A.
and Christofoletti, R.
(eds.) The Palgrave Handbook on Right-Wing Populism and Otherness in Global Perspective .
Global Political Sociology.
Cham: Palgrave Macmillan.
(2024) ‘Citizenship and belonging in the times of Brexit: the case of Polish migrants in Manchester’, in Sredanovic, D.
and Byrne, B.
(eds.) Brexit and Citizens’ Rights: History, Policy and Experience .
Manchester: Manchester University Press.
(2021) ‘Polish migrants in Britain and Spain: The media and political discourses’, in Fouskas, T.
(ed.) Immigrants, Asylum Seekers and Refugees in Times of Crises: An International Handbook on Migration and Refugee Studies, Management Policies and Governance .
Athens: European Public Law Organization (EPLO).
(2019) ‘Shifting racialised positioning: Migrant women in Manchester and Barcelona’, in Essed, P., Farkuharson, K., Pillay, K.
and White, E.
(eds.) Relating Worlds of Racism: Dehumanisation, Belonging and the Normativity of European Whiteness .
London: Palgrave, pp.
191–219.
Conference and Workshop Activities
‘Challenging State-Driven Racism at the Polish-Belarusian Border’, paper presented at SC RACED (IMISCOE) workshop ‘How to talk about racism and race?
Debates in academia and civil society’, INED, Campus Condorcet, Aubervilliers, Paris, 2024
Migration Research Seminar, Pompeu Fabra University, Barcelona, 2023
‘Racialisation of Polish migrants in Britain and Spain’, invited speaker (online), Adam Mickiewicz University, Poland, 2022
Grants
School of Social Sciences Research Grants and Impact Fund, University of Manchester 2018/19 – successful application for Impact and Engagement event (£2000), 2019
Collaborative Innovation Grant of £1,700 for Innovations in Online Research workshop, 2019
Research grant of £5,000 from Near Neighbours Fund with Harpurhey Neighbourhood Project in Manchester for a community engagement project Harpurhey Together seeking to bring migrants and other ethnic minority groups together, 2018
Research grant of £5,000 from Greater Manchester Police and Crime Commissioner’s Office and Home Office for research project on modern slavery, labour exploitation and domestic violence in Greater Manchester, 2015-2017
Dr Alina Rzepnikowska Phillips is actively engaged in international academic collaboration and dialogue.
She regularly contributes to international workshops and conferences focused on migration, ethnicity and social justice.
She is a member of RACED – the IMISCOE Standing Committee on Race, Racism and Discrimination – a key interdisciplinary forum for scholars researching racial inequalities and exclusions.
Through her involvement in RACED, Alina contributes to advancing critical conversations around racial inequalities.
Most recently, she participated in a RACED workshop in Paris, which offered valuable opportunities for collaboration and scholarly exchange across Europe.
Alina is also a co-organiser of the Racial Justice, Equity and Power conference at the University of Suffolk, an international event that brings together academics, activists and practitioners to explore and challenge structural inequalities and promote anti-racist practice.
Her international collaborations include a co-authored papers, reflecting her commitment to cross-border academic partnerships.
In addition, Alina serves as a peer reviewer for the Revista de Estudios Sociales , an academic journal published by the Universidad de los Andes in Colombia, contributing to global research dissemination and scholarly dialogue.
Alina is an Associate Fellow of the Higher Education Academy and member of the British Sociological Association.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/dr-shamser-sinha:
Shamser Sinha is a Senior Lecturer in Sociology and Youth Studies at the University of Suffolk.
His research and teaching interests circle around; ‘race’ and racism; youth; and different ways of doing ethnography.
He has done lots of work with unaccompanied and separated young people seeking asylum.
His epistemological and methodological work explores how researchers can widen their insight beyond the questions we think of asking participants by inviting them in to the collection, analysis and production of outputs.
Shamser is now under contract to Routledge for a paperback book currently titled: 'Decolonising Social Enquiry: beyond mind/body'.
This is a research monograph.
Asylum and refugees including separated and unaccompanied young people, young migrants, undocumented migrants, young people’s peoples experiences of education in rural Suffolk, sexual health and young people.
Selected publications (see ORCID ID: 0000-0002-3586-2116 for full listing)
Book Monographs
Les Back and Shamser Sinha (2018) Migrant City, London, Routledge (paperback in 2019)
S.
Sinha (2025).
Sociologically unspeakable?
The ethics of ethnography and Live Methods.
The Sociological Review , 0(0).
https://doi.org/10.1177/00380261251335484
Back, Les and Sinha, Shamser (2016) Multicultural Conviviality in the Midst of Racism's Ruins.
Journal of Intercultural Studies , 37(5), pp.
517-532.
ISSN 0725-6868 https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/07256868.2016.1211625
Sinha, Shamser and Back, Les (2014)  Making methods sociable: dialogue, ethics and authorship in qualitative research.
Journal of Qualitative Research , 14(4), pp.
473-487.
ISSN 1468-7941
L.
Back and S.
Sinha with C.
Bryan (2012) New Hierarchies of Belonging, European Journal of Cultural Studies, 15, 2, 139-154
T.
Magecha, S.
Sinha and A.
Sutton (2012) Young People and Relations of Power, Forced Migration Review, 40, 30-31
Jayakody, S.
Sinha and K.
Tyler (2011) Early Sexual Risk Among Black and Minority Ethnicity Teenagers: A Mixed Methods Study, Journal of Adolescent Health, 8, 5, 499-506
Sinha and S.
Uppal (2009) Lesser youth?: particular universalisms and young separated migrants in East London, Journal of Youth Studies, 2, 3, 257-273
Sinha (2008) Seeking Sanctuary: exploring the changing postcolonial and racialised politics of belonging in East London.
Sociological Research Online.
www.socresonline.org.uk/13/5/6.html
Sinha, S.
Uppal and A.
Pryce, (2008) I had to cry : exploring sexual health with young separated asylum seekers in East London, Diversity in Health and Social Care, 5, 101-111
Sinha, K.
Curtis, A.
Jayakody, R.
Viner, H.
Roberts (2007) People Make Assumptions About Our Communities : Sexual Health Amongst Teenagers from Black and Minority Ethnic backgrounds in East London, Ethnicity and Health, 12 , 5, 423-441
Roberts (2006) Family and Peer Networks in Intimate and Sexual Relationships Amongst Teenagers in a Multicultural Area of East London, Sociological Research Online, 11, 1, www.socresonline.org.uk/11/1/sinha.html
Other Articles
Sinha, Missed Connections, New Humanist, Autumn 2018, 2018.
Les Back and Shamser Sinha  Stealing a dream: young migrants living through anti-immigrant times, Open Democracy, https://www.opendemocracy.net/author/les-back-and-shamser-sinha , 8 August 2018.
Sinha and L.
Back, Of Method and Freedom: How to re-shape the restrictive dynamic between researcher and participant.
http://blogs.lse.ac.uk/impactofsocialsciences/2013/10/14/of-method-and-freedom/ |, 14 October 2013.
Sinha, Stop Press!
You've got a text from UKBA: Technologies of Control and Connection, Discover Society http://www.discoversociety.org/stop-press-youve-got-a-text-from-ukba-technologies-of-control-and-connection-2/
Sinha, Go Home vans defeated...
Open Democracy http://www.opendemocracy.net/ourkingdom/les-back-and-shamser-sinha/go-home-vans-defeated-but , 6 November 2013
Sinha, 'Go Home' texts expose anti-migrant British policy to the world, Open Democracy http://www.opendemocracy.net/ourkingdom/les-back-and-shamser-sinha/go-home-texts-expose-anti-migrant-british-policy-to-world , 26 October 2013
Back, Building Home, Street Signs, Autumn 2010
Sinha, Immigration and the Politics of Resentment, Open Democracy www.opendemocracy.net/blog/ourkingdom-theme/shamser-sinha/2008/11/10/immigration-and-the-politics-of-resentment ,10 November 2008
Sinha, Save our Children, Red Pepper, November 2007
Sinha, R.
Burr and A.
Sutton, (2014) Working with Young Separated Asylum Seekers in C.
Cocker and T.
Halford-Letchfield (eds) Rethinking Anti-Discriminatory and Anti-Oppressive Theories for Social Work Practice, Basingstoke, Palgrave, 60-74
Sinha (2012) Migration and the Terms of Inclusion (ed) K.Fangen Youth,Migration, Exclusion and Belonging in Europe, Palgrave MacMillan, 54-86
Sinha (2010) The UK: Imperial Spectres, New Migrations and the State of Permanent Emergency in (eds) K.
Fangen, A.
Mossan and F.
Mohn, Inclusion and Exclusion of Young Adult Migrants in Europe: Barriers and Bridges, Surrey, Ashgate, 51-80
Sinha (2007) Whoever names you has the power to tame you: how the language of the begging bowl impoverishes Africa in Zia A (eds) Home Truths: Cultures, leadershipand development from an African perspective, Mombassa and Nairobi, British Council, 17-32 Edited collections in Journal Special Issues
M.
Farrar and S.
Sinha, (eds) (2008) The East End of London New Research on Racism and Multiculturalism, Sociological Research Online www.socresonline.org.uk/13/5/contents.html
Sinha et al (2017) Young People and Progression in Rural Suffolk, Suffolk, Seckford Foundation, http://www.seckford-foundation.org.uk/wp-content/uploads/2017/06/Young-people-and-progression-in-rural-Suffolk-A-report-for-the-Seckford-Foundation.pdf
Sinha et al (2017) Executive Summary: Young People and Progression in Rural Suffolk, Suffolk, Seckford Foundation
Sinha (2011) What are the impacts of restrictions on participation in the labour market and civic life on young migrants?
(COMPAS) ESRC Centre on Migration, Policy and Society
Back (2011) A door to the future?: the consequences for young migrants of immigration and welfare policy.
London, Goldsmiths College
Sinha (September 2008) Safeguarding the sexual health of Young Separated Migrants.
NSPCC Inform Briefing.
London, NSPCC
Pryce (2006) Exploring sexual health needs amongst unaccompanied asylum-seekers in Hackney, Hackney Children and Young People's Service www.everychildmatters.gov.uk/resources-and-practice/search/RS00018/
Roberts (2005) Starting sex in East London: protective and risk factors for starting to have sex amongst Black and Minority Ethnic young people in East London, Department of Health and DFES www.dfes.gov.uk/research/data/uploadfiles/rw42a.pdf
Curtis, H.
Roberts and R.
Viner (2005) Culture, identity, religion and sexual behaviour among Black and Minority Ethnic teenagers in East London, Department of Health and DFES www.dfes.gov.uk/research/data/uploadfiles/rw42d.pdf
K.
Curtis, S.
Sinha, A.
Viner and H.
Roberts (2005) Contraception and unsafe sex in East London teenagers: protective and risk factors for use of contraception among black and minority ethnic young people in East London, Department of Health and DFES www.dfes.gov.uk/research/data/uploadfiles/rw42b.pdf
Viner (2005) Smoking, drinking, drug use, mental health and sexual behaviour in young people in East London, Department of Health and DFES
Keynote Conferences and Plenaries
On the 21st of June, Shamser gave a paper entitled, ‘Mardoche Yembi Sat on a Bench: What Stories Know that Data Can’t’ for the ‘What Happens Next: Radical Creative Writing Symposium’ in the School of Arts, Media and Creative Technologies, at the University of Salford
On the of June 2023, Shamser gave an invited lecture as part of the New Edmund’s Lecture Series at West Suffolk College entitled:  ‘Space, Time and the Relationship Between Stories and Knowing : Sociology (kind of)’
Shamser Sinha and Les Back,  Sociable Sociology: dialogue, ethics and authorship in qualitative research, Leisure Studies Association Annual Conference, 7 July 2021
Shamser Sinha and Les Back with Charlynne Bryan, Writing the Migrant City, BSA Cities, Mobilities, Place and Space Plenary at the BSA annual conference, 25 April 2019
Les Back and Shamser Sinha with Charlyne Bryan, New Hierarchies of Belonging, SOAS, Centre for Migration and Diaspora Studies, 19 November 2014

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/reilly-anne-willis:
Dr Reilly Anne Dempsey Willis joined the University of Suffolk in May 2019 as a Lecturer in Law and is now a Senior Lecturer and Course Leader for undergraduate law.
She specialises in exploring the complex relationships between social media and law, specifically relating to gender equality issues, the rights of women and girls, and reproductive rights.
Prior to academia, Reilly worked extensively as an advocate for women’s rights, both in the charity sector and within the UN system.
A highlight of this work was her work on the successful case of Alyne da Silva Pimentel Teixeira v.
Brazil (Committee on the Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination Against Women), the first time the UN system officially recognised maternal mortality as a human rights violation.
Reilly continues to engage in research on strategic litigation to explore its impact and effectiveness.
Dr Willis is also heavily dedicated to pedagogical research and innovation, as evidenced by winning the International Block and Intensive Learning and Teaching Association’s 2025 Excellence in Teaching award.
Reilly’s PhD used innovative empirical methods to evaluate the long-term impact of international Twitter campaigns on domestic women’s rights in seven countries around the world, which has now been published by Bristol University Press: Hashtag Activism and Women’s Rights: are social media campaigns really making laws better for women and girls?
Reilly also holds a Juris Doctor from New York University School of Law where she was an International Law and Human Rights Fellow at the Center for Human Rights and Global Justice, and a Masters in Public Health from Columbia University.
Dr Willis leads on several modules, including International Law and Human Rights, International Criminal Justice Systems, Tort Law, Law & Lawyering, and final year Independent Projects.
Selected Publications (see ORCID ID: 0000-0003-3845-9389 for full listing)
Social Media
Hashtag Activism and Women's Rights: Are Social Media Campaigns Really Making Laws Better for Women and Girls?
Bristol University Press
‘ Whose story is it anyway?
Hashtag campaigns and digital abortion storytelling ’ in Stories, Storytellers and Storytelling (Palgrave) eds.
Richards, S.
and Vine, T.
Habermasian utopia or Sunstein's echo chamber?
The ‘dark side’ of hashtag hijacking and feminist activism in Legal Studies
Strategic Litigation
Brown Bear, Brown Bear, What Can You See?
Exploring the Tension Between Strategic Choices and Claimants’ Voices in Environmental Litigation in the EU in the German Law Journal
Becoming indigenous or being overcome?
Strategic indigenous rights litigation in the Sudan in The International Journal of Human Rights
Pedagogy
Understanding engagement in intensive learning environments: From fuzzy chaotic indigestion to eupeptic clarity in Journal of University Teaching & Learning Practice
Her full publication list is available on OARS
Reilly often engages with local and national media and has recently been interviewed by WIRED magazine for her work on hashtag hijacking.
Reilly is open to new clinical placements or research/consultancy opportunities
Reilly has extensive international experience as a practitioner in international human rights, in particular her engagement with the UN system.
She was also a member of an international research group based in Amsterdam exploring the emerging use of strategic and impact litigation in the EU.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/get-in-touch/people-directory/school-of-health-sciences-and-society/dr-kwabena-frimpong-manso:
Kwabena Frimpong-Manso is an experienced academic in the field of child welfare, serving as a senior lecturer at the University of Suffolk’s School of Health, Sciences and Society.
He holds a PhD from Queen’s University Belfast and is internationally recognised for his research on child welfare, care transitions, and the deinstitutionalisation of children in Ghana.
Frimpong-Manso has a proven track record of leading initiatives that bridge academic research with practical solutions, such as the development of culturally adaptive child maintenance tools and evaluations of Ghana’s care reform roadmap.
He actively collaborates with global partners in Africa, Asia, and Latin America to advance cross-national studies on care leavers’ adult outcomes.
His dedication to social justice, research-informed teaching, and fostering collaborative networks underscores his leadership in shaping innovative approaches to child protection and family-based care systems.
His extensive portfolio includes impactful projects funded by UNICEF and significant contributions to global policy through roles such as an executive member of the International Research Network on Transitions to Adulthood from Care (INTRAC) and as a senior research associate at the University of Johannesburg.
Dr Kwabena Frimpong-Manso teaches in the following areas:
Child protection and child welfare; alternative care; care transitions; care reform and deinstitutionalisation and group work.
Current Projects
Exploring the potential of embedding a child maintenance assessment tool into a national web-based case management system for social workers in Ghana.
Frimpong-Manso, K.
(In Print) Social support for residential care leavers in Ghana: The perspectives and experiences of social workers and residential care youth workers, in E.
Magalhães and S.
Attar-Schwartz (eds) Social support of young people in and after residential care: Is someone there for you?
International perspective.
London: Routledge Taylor & Francis Group.
Frimpong-Manso (In Print) Ghana, in T.
Refaeli and V.
Mann-Feder (eds) Leaving Care Around the World: Twenty Years of the International Network on Transitions to Adulthood from Care.
London: Oxford University Press.
Kelly, B., van Breda, A.
D., Pinkerton, J., Frimpong-Manso, K., Chereni, A., & Bukuluki, P.
(2024) “Youth in Transition: Exploring a Life Course Perspective on Leaving care in Africa,” Youth & Society, 56(5), pp.
926–945.
Available at: https://doi.org/10.1177/0044118X231193708 .
et al.
(2024) “Deinstitutionalization of children in residential care facilities: Experiences and perceptions of professionals in Ghana,” Child & Family Social Work, 29(2), pp.
306–315.
Available at: https://doi.org/10.1111/cfs.13081 .
Abdullah, A., Frimpong-Manso, K., Cudjoe, E., & Agbadi, P.
(2024) “When Social Workers Are Given Dual Mandates: Child Maintenance and the Complexities of Family Situations in the Ghanaian Child Protection System,” The British Journal of Social Work, 54(6), pp.
2415–2434.
Available at: https://doi.org/10.1093/bjsw/bcae041 .
Cudjoe, E., Abdullah, A., Frimpong-Manso, K., Agbadi, P., & Deliege, A.
(2024) “Assessing Child Maintenance Cases in Ghana: What Do Social Workers Consider?,” Journal of Social Service Research, pp.
1–14.
Available at: https://doi.org/10.1080/01488376.2024.2362763 .

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/katherine-allen:
She has cross-disciplinary research experience in sociology, philosophy and literature, with strong research interests in sexual/gender-based violence and the evolution of feminist ending violence movements, feminist and social epistemology, and philosophy of literature, mind and the emotions.
Following the completion of her PhD in Philosophy in 2013, Katherine worked in the social care and voluntary sectors, latterly working for a Suffolk-based sexual violence charity.
Her experiences working in the sector spurred her to pursue a Masters in Woman and Child Abuse Studies and embark on a primary research project to understand the experiences of women working within the Rape Crisis movement.
View Katherine's outputs in our Open Access Repository: Katherine Allen's Outputs

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/get-in-touch/people-directory/research/dr-laura-stevens:
Laura Stevens graduated her Bachelors in Psychological and Behavioural Sciences at the University of Cambridge in 2018, where she focused on the experiences of child sexual abuse victims in the criminal justice system.
Following this, she joined the Applied Memory Lab at the University of Birmingham, supervised by Professor Heather Flowe, where she completed both her MSc and PhD in Psychology.
Laura's thesis focused on innovative methods of documenting memory evidence from victim-survivors of sexual and gender-based violence, including using digital platforms (i.e., mobile phone apps and websites), training non-police first responders to use evidence-based interviewing skills, and behaviourally informed interview techniques.
Laura's research is relevant domestically but has a focus on violence in humanitarian areas, as her thesis was co-developed with the Wangu Kanja Foundation, a non-governmental organisation that supports victim-survivors of sexual and gender-based violence in Kenya.
Following her PhD, Laura has worked as a post-doctoral researcher where she has applied her expertise in cross-cultural interviewing of vulnerable applicants within the context of asylum seeking at Åbo Akademi University in Finland.
Laura has received the American Psychology-Law Society Dissertation prize for her thesis and the Association for the Treatment & Prevention of Sexual Abuse Student Publication Award for her research training non-police first responders to document cases of sexual and gender-based violence using best-practice interviewing skills.
Laura currently co-supervises PhD and masters students and welcomes the opportunity to supervise projects.
PhD Psychology.
University of Birmingham, UK.
MSc Psychology.
First Class (Distinction).
BA Psychological and Behavioral Sciences.
2:1.
University of Cambridge, UK
Teaching
Undergraduate
Anti-Social Behaviour and Crime, University of Birmingham (Third Year Undergraduates).
Seminar on Eyewitness memory.
(180 students).
Postgraduate
Forensic Doctorate Lecture, University of Birmingham.
Eyewitness Identification and Memory Recall.
(25 students).
Child Victims and the Courts.
(30 students).
Academic Writing Skills.
Vulnerable and Intimidated Witnesses.
Research supervisor for 2 PhD candidates, Åbo Akademi University, Finland (Lead supervisor Prof.
Jan Antfolk).
Research supervisor for 2 MSc candidates, Åbo Akademi University, Finland (Lead supervisor Prof.
Research supervisor for 5 MSc candidates, University of Birmingham.
(Lead supervisor Prof.
Heather Flowe).
Research supervisor for 3 MSc candidates, Bournemouth University.
(Lead supervisor Dr.
Kari Davies).
Research supervisor for 4 Research Interns, Nuffield Research Placements, University of Birmingham.
Other
Research supervision of over 30 research assistants.
2019-current.
University of Birmingham.
Private Tutoring, MyTutor.
Tutored students from A-Level Psychology to master’s students in Psychology.
Teacher of Psychology, Criminology and Health and Social Care (16–19-year-olds).
2019-2020.
Joseph Chamberlain College.
Module lead for Equality and Diversity.
Led an extra-curricular group in mental health initiatives on campus.
Investigative Interviewing Training.
2021-current.
Trained over 100 individuals to conduct interviews using best practice in Kenya, Birmingham, Lancaster, and Sydney.
Skrifvars, J., Ilmoni, A., Siegfrids, L., Galán, M., Stevens, L., Selim, H., Korkman, J., & Antfolk, J.
(2025).
Experiences of Asylum Interviews by Asylum Officials, Interpreters and Asylum Seekers in Finland.
Journal of Criminal Psychology.
https://doi.org/10.31219/osf.io/mr892
Dajani, R., Bayoumi, R., Flowe, H.
D., Rockowitz, S., Stevens, L, M., & Fakhoury, T.
(2024).
Neocolonialism and Science Diplomacy: Lessons Learned from the Field and the Way Forward.
Frontiers in Public Health.
Ingham, M.
P., Gibbs, B.
D., Colloff, M.
F., Stevens, L.
M., Rockowitz, S.
R., Hayre, R.
K., Butt, M., & Flowe, H.
(Accepted).
Probing Participants who were Alcohol Intoxicated during a Hypothetical Rape Scenario to Remember More Details Impairs Recall Accuracy.
Applied Cognitive Psychology.
Stevens, L.
M., Bennett, T., Cotton, J., Rockowitz, S., & Flowe, H, D.
GBVxTech: Systematic Review of Gender-Based Violence Reporting Apps in Capturing Memory Evidence.
Frontiers in Psychology – Forensic and Legal Psychology (Impact Factor 3.91).
Buchanan, E.
M., Cuccolo, K., Coles, N.
A., Heyman, T., Iyer, A., Lewis, N.
A., Jr., … Lewis, S.
Measuring the Semantic Priming Effect Across Many Languages.
Nature Human Behaviour.
https://doi.org/10.31219/osf.io/q4fjy (Impact Factor 18.24).
M., Monds, L.
A., Riordan, B.
C., Hayre, R.
K., & Flowe, H.
Acute alcohol intoxication and alcohol expectancy effects on women’s memory for consensual and non-consensual sexual activity.
Frontiers in Psychology - Forensic and Legal Psychology.
https://doi.org/10.3389/fpsyg.2022.1008563 (Impact Factor 3.91).
M., & Morris, C.
The Intersections of Family Violence and Sexual Offending, by Gemma Hamilton and Patrick Tidmarsh, Routledge, 2023, 108 pp, ISBN 978-0-367-50888-3.
Current Issues in Criminal Justice.
https://doi.org/10.1080/10345329.2023.2245096 (Impact Factor 2).
Rockowitz, S., Rockey, J.
C., Stevens, L.
M., Colloff, M.
F., Kanja, W., & Flowe, H.
Evaluating case attrition along the medico-legal case referral pathway for sexual and domestic violence survivors in Kenya: A secondary data analysis.
Victims & Offenders.
https://doi.org/10.1080/15564886.2023.2214550 (Impact Factor 3.06).
Rockowitz, S., Wagner, K., Cooper, R., Stevens, L., Davies, K., Woodhams, J., Kanja, W., & Flowe, H.
A Systematic Review of Criminal Justice Initiatives to Strengthen the Criminal Investigation and Prosecution of Sexual Violence in East Africa.
Trauma, Violence, & Abuse, 0(0).
https://doi.org/10.1177/15248380231165694.
(Impact Factor 10.05).
Meyer, M., Colloff, M.
F., Bennett, T.
C., Hirata, E., Kohl, A., Stevens, L.
M., Smith, H.
M., Staudigl, T., & Flowe, H.D.
Enabling witnesses to actively explore faces increases discrimination accuracy.
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.
(Impact Factor 9.68).
Yang, X., Schulz, J., et al.
(Stage 1 Registered Report).
Large-scale cross-societal examination of real- and minimal-group biases.
(Impact Factor 18.24).
M., Reid, E., Kanja, W., Rockowitz, S., Davies, K., Dosanjh, S., ...
& Flowe, H.
The Kenyan Survivors of Sexual Violence Network: Preserving Memory Evidence with a Bespoke Mobile Application to Increase Access to Vital Services and Justice.
Societies, 12, 12.
https://doi.org/10.3390/soc12010012 (Impact Factor 2.5).
Hope, L., Anakwah, N., Antfolk, J., Brubacher, S.
P., Flowe, H., Gabbert, F., ...
& Anonymous.
Urgent issues and prospects at the intersection of culture, memory, and witness interviews: Exploring the challenges for research and practice.
Legal and Criminological Psychology, 27, 1-31.
https://doi.org/10.1111/lcrp.12202 (Impact Factor 2.8).
Gordon, R., Cheeseman, N., Rockowitz, S., Stevens, L., & Flowe, H.
Government Responses to Gender-Based Violence during COVID-19.
Frontiers in Global Women's Health, 98.
https://doi.org/10.3389/fgwh.2022.857345
Ji, Z., Rockowitz, S., Flowe, H.
D., Stevens, L.
M., Kanja, W., & Davies, K.
Reflections on Increasing the Value of Data on Sexual Violence Incidents against Children to Better Prevent and Respond to Sexual Offending in Kenya.
Societies, 12(3), 89.
https://doi.org/10.3390/soc12030089 (Impact Factor 2.5).
Winsor, A., Flowe, H.
D., Seale-Carlisle, T.
M., Killeen, I.
M., Hett, D., Jores, T., Ingham, M., Lee, B., Stevens, L., & Colloff, M.
F.
(2021).
Children’s expressions of certainty are informative.
Journal of Experimental Psychology: General.
150(11), 2387–2407.
https://doi.org/10.1037/xge0001049 (Impact Factor 4.32).
M., Rockey, J.
C., Rockowitz, S., Kanja, W., Colloff, M.
F., & Flowe, H.
Children's Vulnerability to Sexual Violence During COVID-19 in Kenya: Recommendations for the Future.
Frontiers in Global Women’s Health.
https://doi.org/10.3389/fgwh.2021.630901
M., Henderson, H.
M., & Lamb, M.
E.
Linguistically complex recognition prompts in pre‐recorded cross‐examinations.
Behavioral Sciences & the Law, 39(3).
369-382.
https://doi.org/10.1002/bsl.2504 (Impact Factor 1.44).
Jones, B., et al.
To which world regions does the valence-dominance model of social perception apply?
Nature Human Behaviour [Registered Report], 5, 159–169.
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41562-020-01007-2 (Impact Factor 18.24).
Rockowitz, S., Stevens, L., Colloff, M.
F., Smith, L., Rockey, J., Ritchie, J., … Flowe, H.
Patterns of Violence Against Adults and Children During the COVID-19 Pandemic in Kenya.
BMJ Open https://doi.org/10.31234/osf.io/265nq (Impact Factor 4.5).
Conference Presentations
2024: Stevens, L.
M., Davies, K., Wagner, K., Kanja, W., George, A., Rockowitz, S., Kohl, A.
T., & Flowe, H.
Using Behavioural Crime Linkage to Improve Memory Documentation with Survivors of Sexual Violence in Kenya - A Randomised Control Trial.
Paper Presented at European Association of Psychology and Law, Portugal.
GBVxTech: Systematic review of sexual violence reporting apps in capturing memory evidence.
Paper Presented at Centre for Crime, Justice and Policing, University of Birmingham, UK.
M., Walsh, R., Kuhn, E., Kanja, W., Cosnett, W., Kim, E., Rockowitz, S., & Flowe, H, D.
Evaluation of Innovative Interviewing Training to document cases of SGBV in Humanitarian Contexts.
Paper Presented at American Psychology-Law Society, Los Angeles, USA.
2023: Stevens, L.
Paper Presented at Society for Applied Research in Memory and Cognition, Nagoya, Japan.
Paper Presented at European Association of Psychology and Law, Cluj -Napoca, Romania.
M., Reid, E., Kanja, W., Rockowitz, S., Davies, K., Dosanjh, S., Findel, B., & Flowe, H.
Paper Presented at Behavioural and Social Sciences in Security, Centre for Research and Evidence on Security Threats, University of Bath, UK.
M., & Flowe., H.
Impact of Misinformation, Retention Interval and Repeated Interviews on Eyewitness Memory for Sexual Violence- a Partial Replication of Ebbesen and Reinick (1998).
Paper Presented at American Psychology-Law Society, Philadelphia, USA.
2022: Stevens, L.
Paper Presented at (Re)Connecting on Gender-Based Violence Conference, University of Liverpool, UK.
Paper Presented at Talking about Memory and Cognition, University of Portsmouth, UK.
2022: Rockowitz, S., Stevens, L., Ingham, M., Flowe, H.D., and Phillimore, J.
An analysis of Home Office interviews with asylum seeking sexual and gender-based violence survivors.
Project presented at International Investigative Interviewing Research Group Annual Conference, Winchester University, UK
Paper Presented at Economic and Social Research Council - Midlands Graduate School - Doctoral Training Partnership Annual Conference (Virtual).
2021: Stevens, L.
C., & Flowe, H.
Paper Presented at Society for Applied Research in Memory and Cognition Annual Conference (Virtual).
Paper Presented at American Psychological Association Annual Convention (Virtual).
2018: Stevens L, Henderson, H & Lamb, M.
The use of special measures to reduce linguistically complex prompts against children in court.
Paper Presented at American Psychology-Law Society, Memphis, US.
Laura Stevens is currently the Student President of the Society for Applied Research in Memory and Cognition and is a member of the American Psychology Law Society and the European Association of Psychology and Law.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/katie-tyrrell-0:
Since joining the University of Suffolk, Katie has worked alongside local, national, and international organisations to investigate the impact of interventions, programmes and service delivery upon the welfare and wellbeing of people across the lifespan using both qualitative and quantitative methods.
Katie is working alongside the Director of Learning and Teaching and colleagues within the Directorate of Learning and Teaching to lead the research and evaluation of the institutional OfS Access and Participation Plan 2025/26-2028/29.
Her previous work aligns with the Research Directorate, in which she was undertaking independent research and evaluation and supporting successful institutional submissions to the Research Excellence Framework (REF) and the Advance HE Athena Swan Gender Equality Charter.
She is currently undertaking a PhD, registered at the University of East Anglia (UEA) and the University of Suffolk, investigating technology-facilitated relationships amongst Higher Education students.
Katie has experience of teaching research methods to undergraduate level students, and has contributed towards the Social Science Research Skills and Secondary Data Analysis modules at the University of Suffolk.
Katie has also delivered CPD sessions to health practitioner students around writing for publication, and facilitated staff training workshops around delivering focus groups and interviewing vulnerable groups.
Katie also has experience of supervising masters level students.
Katie’s current research interests lie within applied social sciences, including a broad range of topics related to social justice and social policy, particularly in the context of higher education.
She is interested in the everyday interactions between people, technology and society, young people’s digital intimacies and technology-facilitated sexual and domestic violence.
Her current and previous research and evaluation projects involve the investigation of inequality of opportunity in education, student mental health and wellbeing, youth justice, unemployment and social action, digital civility and online abuse in university ecologies.
Katie has engaged in multiple evaluation projects, including, for example, evaluations of rehabilitative youth offending programmes, training programmes for professionals working alongside children who are victims of online abuse and interventions to reduce inequality of opportunity in education.
Katie has an interest in research which utilises co-production and creative methodologies to facilitate meaningful participation.
Sampson, K., Priestley, M., Dodd, A.
L., Broglia, E., Wykes, T., Robotham, D., Tyrrell, K ., Ortega Vega, M,.
& Byrom, N.
Key questions: research priorities for student mental health .
BJPsych Open, 8(3), e90.
Buck, E.
& Tyrrell, K .
(2022) Block and blend: a mixed method investigation into the impact of a pilot block teaching and blended learning approach upon student outcomes and experience, Journal of Further and Higher Education.
Jackman, P, S anderson, R, Haughey, T, Brett, C, White, N, Zile, A, Tyrrell, K & Byrom, N (2021).
The impact of the first COVID-19 lockdown in the UK for doctoral and early career researchers .
Higher Education .
Dodd, A.
L., Priestley, M., Tyrrell, K ., Cygan, S., Newell, C., & Byrom, N.
University student well-being in the United Kingdom: a scoping review of its conceptualisation and measurement .
Journal of Mental Health, 1-13.
Bond, E., & Tyrrell, K .
(2018).
Understanding revenge pornography: A national survey of police officers and staff in England and Wales.
Journal of Interpersonal Violence, 1-16.
James, S., Bell, O.
A., Nazli, M.
A., Pearce, R.
E., Spencer, J., Tyrrell, K ., ...
& Gurney, K.
(2017).
Target-distractor synchrony affects performance in a novel motor task for studying action selection.
PloS one , 12 (5).
Book chapters and research reports:
Tyrrell, K., Phippen, A., Bond, E.
Systemic Responses to Online Abuse on Campus.
In: Adisa, O., Bond, E.
(eds) Tackling Domestic Abuse and Sexual Violence.
Palgrave Studies in Victims and Victimology.
Palgrave Macmillan, Cham.
(2023) Youth social action: shaping communities, driving change.
In: Critical perspectives on research with children: reflexivity, methodology, and researcher identity.
Bristol University Press, Bristol, UK.
ISBN 9781529216776
, Snee, H.
(Ed.), (2022).
How to Research With Children Online [How to Guide].
SAGE Research Methods: Doing Research Online.
Adisa, O, Maitra, D, Allen, K, Tyrrell, K and Barbin, A (2022) H.O.P.E Cross-Cultural Training Evaluation.
Project Report.
Centre for Abuse Research, University of Suffolk, Ipswich, Suffolk.
Collis-Phillips, L., & Tyrrell, K.
University, is it for me?
Experiences of Black, Asian and Eastern European Students and Young People in Ipswich.
University of Suffolk, Ipswich, Suffolk.
Richards, S, Fish, J & Tyrrell, K (2021) Bereavement support and training in Suffolk primary schools.
Ipswich, Suffolk.
Tyrrell, K., & Collis-Phillips, L.
(2020).
CoronaCollections: Suffolk Young Peoples Experiences of COVID-19 and the transition back to education.
Allen, K, Adisa, O and Tyrrell, K (2020) Evaluation of Suffolk’s Domestic Abuse Champions Project.
Tyrrell, K (2020) Suffolk Family Carers: Evaluating support available for young carers across primary schools in Suffolk.
Strudwick, R.
Tyrrell, K , Tocca, A, Hayre, C.
(2019) An evaluation of the Dementia Together Service provided by Sue Ryder, Ipswich, Suffolk.
(2019).
Young peoples’ perceptions of provision and opportunities in Suffolk.
Tyrrell, K (2018) Youth Engagement: Exploring methods of engagement and feedback on the Ipswich Opportunity Area delivery plan with young people.
Bond, E & Tyrrell, K (2018) Online Peer on Peer Abuse: A National Survey of Teachers and Safeguarding Leads in England and Scotland.
Tyrrell, K & V, Rawlings (2018) Life Transitions: Well-being and Physical Activity.
An evaluation of physical activity interventions in Ipswich and Stowmarket.
Tyrrell, K .; Bond, E.
Tyrrell, K .
Cardoso, D., Tyrrell, K ., Mancias Guerra, C., & Rikhraj, S.
Chlorpromazine versus lithium for people with schizophrenia .
The Cochrane Library .
Published Abstracts and Conference Presentations:
Tyrrell, K (2022) Technology-mediated intimacy and abuse: What do we know from the perspectives of students in UK higher education?, (Re)Connecting on Gender-Based Violence, The University of Liverpool.
Tyrrell, K; Priestly, M.
(2022) Measuring Student Well-being and Identifying Student Priorities.
SMaRteN Showcase, Kings College London.
(2019) 'Transitions and Healthy Ageing: Evaluating the impact of exercise initiatives upon well-being and physical activity levels'.
Tommy Flowers Conference, BT Adastral Park, Suffolk.
Tyrrell, K; Phippen, A (2019) ‘Why assuming students are ‘Digital Natives’ fails to safeguard them at university’, Students in Changing Higher Education Landscapes, University of Surrey,
Tyrrell, K; Phippen, A, & Bond, E (2019) Round Table event at Office for Students’ to discuss ‘what works’ in tackling hate crime and online harassment affecting students, London.
Tyrrell, K & Bond, E (2019).
‘Growing up: from online safety to digital civility and digital wellbeing?’ Digital Differences: A Safer Internet for Whom?
University of Suffolk, Ipswich.
Tyrrell, K, Strudwick, R & Page, A (2018) ‘Evaluation of the Dementia Together Service’, Health & Wellbeing Research Showcase, OneLife Suffolk, Leeds Beckett University with the University of Suffolk.
Tyrrell K & Marshall, J (2018) ‘Evaluation of the Dementia Together Service: Preliminary findings’, Movement and Memories: Exploring Perceptions of Dementia.
ESRC Festival of Social Science, University of Suffolk, Ipswich.
Tyrrell, K (2018) ‘Evaluating professional needs for training in responding to disclosure of online sexual abuse in Kent’.
Marie Collins Foundation Conference, Kent.
Tyrrell, K & V, Rawlings (2018) 'Young people and Digital Wellbeing: Findings from a study with young people engaging in the National Citizen Service (NCS)' at A Child's World Conference 2018: New Shoes, New Directions, Aberystwyth, Wales.
(2017) 'Youth unemployment: Addressing real needs through social enterprise' at Looking for New Horizons: The Circular Economy, ICESBA, Bucharest, Romania.
Katie was a founding member of the Suffolk Institute for Social and Economic Research (now Institute of Social Justice and Crime), which has generated a six figure sum total in research funding, since its inception in 2018.
Katie has also worked with various statutory and non-statutory organisations, NGOs and charities to evaluate interventions and programmes, including local organisations such as Suffolk County Council, Suffolk Youth Offending Service, Suffolk Constabulary, Diocese of St.
Edmundsbury and Ipswich, Volunteering Matters, Inspire Suffolk and 4YP, and national organisations, such as Internet Matters, South West Grid for Learning, The Marie Collins Foundation (MCF), the Revenge Porn Helpline, the Office for Students and Universities UK.
Office for Students (OfS) Safeguarding and Welfare Expert Advisory Panel (2019 - Current)
Office for Students (OfS) Mental Health Advisory Panel (2019 - Current)
Student Mental Health Research Network (SMaRteN) Research Prioritisation Exercise Steering Group (2019- Current)
Suffolk Young People's Health Project (4YP), Trustee.
(2019 - Current)
Graduate Member of the British Psychological Society (MBPsS) (2016 - Current)
BBC Look East (2019) 'Young People's Provision in Suffolk'
BBC Radio 5 Live (2019) 'Image-Based Sexual Abuse'
BBC Look East (2018) 'Police Responses to Revenge Pornography'
Katie is working with the Director of Learning and Teaching and other academic and professional colleagues on the research and evaluation of the institutional OfS Access and Participation Plan 25-29.
Katie worked alongside the Pro-Vice Chancellor for Research, the People and Organisational Development department and other Professional Services teams to develop Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion practices at the University of Suffolk, including our first successful institutional submission to the Athena Swan Charter.
Katie worked alongside the Pro-Vice Chancellor for Research to develop the institutional submission to the REF 2021 and support the early preparation for REF2029.
Katie also worked with colleagues across the Research Directorate to lead and develop the national Together for Transformation: Research for a Changing World Conference.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/duncan-weaver:
Duncan Weaver approaches teaching and research from a critical criminological and political position.
He is interested in the bridging points between critical criminological theory and critical geopolitical and security theory.
He was previously Senior Instructor (ARU), Lecturer (City College Norwich) and Graduate Teaching Assistant (Keele).
Duncan holds a BA and PhD in International Relations and Politics (Keele) plus a Security MScEcon (Aberystwyth).
He also completed two years' teacher training (Suffolk New College).
PhD applicants with interests in the policy issues and theoretical interventions evident in his publications are encouraged to make contact.
Duncan has successfully designed, mobilised and delivered a number of security-related degrees at undergraduate and postgraduate level.
His most recent project related to the construction and mobilisation of Suffolk's MA International Relations.
He was also involved with professional police education, contributing to the mobilisation and delivery of Police Constable Degree Apprenticeships and Degree Holder Entry Programmes (ARU) and Professional Policing programmes (CCN).
Duncan holds course leadership in MA International Relations and undergraduate Criminology.
He also leads a number of undergraduate and postgraduate modules.
Weaver, D.
(2026, under contract) Public Participation and National Security .
(2024) 'Extinction Rebellion: Greening Vanguardism?', Social Movement Studies , 23(1), 113-121.
(2023) The Aarhus Convention: Towards Environmental Solidarisation .
(2022) 'Project Kraken: surveillance and liminality 'on the edge' of land and water', Geopolitics, 27(1), 333-359.
(2020) 'Wakhan: concomitance of the local and international in marginal boundaries', Geopolitics, 25(5), 1168-1198.
(2020) 'Spatiality and world politics' in N.
Sandal (ed.), Oxford Research Encyclopaedia of International Studies.
Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1-37.
(2020) 'William of Rubruck: cosmopolitan curiosity and restraint in an age of conquest and mission', Comparative Civilizations Review, 83, 44-66.
(2018) 'The Aarhus Convention and process cosmopolitanism', International Environmental Agreements, 18(2), 199-213.
Invited Popular Items
(2020) 'Project Kraken at 13', Safe Seas: Research Network for Maritime Security and Ocean Governance.
Conference Papers
'Ecofascism in contemporary Europe', Tragedy of the Greens Workshop, Central European University Vienna, 2025.
'Artificial intelligence and UK freedom of information law', with Dr Sean Whittaker, Centre for Freedom of Information Annual Conference, Dundee, 2024.
'Ecofascism old and new', with Professor Nigel South, British Society of Criminology Conference, Strathclyde, 2024.
'Aarhus Convention Articles 4 and 5, and Artificial Intelligence', with Dr Sean Whittaker, Dundee, 2024.
'Aarhus Convention Article 3.7 and Arctic International Forums', Critical Arctic Studies Symposium, Lapland, 2023.
'Environmental solidarisation: lessons from the Aarhus Convention', EISA Pan European Conference, Potsdam, 2023.
'Designing out injustice: lessons from the Aarhus Convention', Together for Transformation, Suffolk, 2023.
'William of Rubruck', British International Studies Association early career conference, Portsmouth, 2019.
'Greening Realism', Royal Society of Edinburgh realism workshop, Edinburgh, 2013.
'Global Ontologies', Aberystwyth-Lancaster Colloquium, Keele, 2013.
'Critical National Infrastructure Protection', Theoretical Currents II, Lincoln, 2012.
In recent years, Duncan has provided training to Freedom of Information professionals on the implications of artificial intelligence for UK FOI law; he has delivered training to Crown Prosecution Service staff on risk horizon scanning; and he was invited to attend a multi-stakeholder planning conference ahead of UK maritime security reform.
Duncan speaks occasionally to local media about issues of security interest.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/scott-huntly:
Scott Huntly joined the University as lecturer in politics in January 2020, where he teaches in the School of Business, Arts, Social Sciences and Technology and researches political discourse and ideology.
His current research focuses on the political discourse of Evangelical Christians after Trump and he publishes in the areas of ideology and discourse analysis and political theory more generally.
Scott has previously taught at the Universities of Sunderland and Essex, and is a regular visiting lecturer at Regents College in Malvern.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/xiaorong-gu:
Gu is currently a Lecturer in Childhood Studies at the University of Suffolk.
She leads research on Global Childhoods and Childhood Theories in the Childhood and Education team.
Prior to this, she held several research positions with Asia Research Institute (National University of Singapore, NUS) and on the ‘Doing Intimacy’ Project at SOAS, University of London, after obtaining a PhD in sociology at NUS in 2017.
As a sociologist of children and youths, she writes extensively about their migration and mobilities, education, socio-emotions, relations, disabilities and wellbeing, as well as their social positioning vis-à-vis family, educational institutions, and the nation-state.
Her area focus is on contemporary China, from a comparative-Asia perspective.
She is a practitioner of methodological pluralism, unravelling the multiplicity and richness of human life and society in social science perspectives.
She guest-edited the special issue on The Value of Children and Social Transformations in Asia with Child Indicators Research (2021) and the special monograph on The Value of Children in The Global South: A Critical Engagement with Current Sociology (2022).
She is also a co-editor of the Emerald Handbook of Childhood and Youth in Asian Societies (2023).
Her research article — ‘“Save the children!”: Governing Left-behind Children through Family in China’s Great Migration’ — was shortlisted for the Annual SAGE Current Sociology Best Paper Prize in 2023.
She was featured as Sociologist of the Month in April 2023 by International Sociological Association.
Gu is an experienced, passionate and award-winning educator, with 4 years of full-time lectureship in English Language and Literature at Sun Yat-Sen University in China (2008-2012) and 4 years of teaching assistantship in sociology at National University of Singapore (2012-2016).
She is twice a recipient of Faculty Teaching Award at Sun Yat-sen University (2011; 2012) and once a recipient of Graduate Teaching Award at NUS (2016).
At the University of Suffolk, she leads a host of childhood modules, including Child Development in Context, Imagining Childhoods, Children's Ecologies, Theories in Childhood and Education.
Selected Publications (see ORCID ID: 0000-0002-5479-9669 for full listing)
Journal Articles & Book Chapters
Jones, G.W.
& Gu, X.
R.
"Men’s Marriage Trends in Asia: Changes and Continuities." Journal of Family Issues , 45(5), 1279-1304
Bühler-Niederberger, D., Gu, X., Schwittek, J.
and Kim, E.
"Introduction", Bühler-Niederberger, D., Gu, X., Schwittek, J.
(Ed.) The Emerald Handbook of Childhood and Youth in Asian Societies , Emerald Publishing Limited, Bingley, pp.
1-12.
https://doi.org/10.1108/978-1-80382-283-920231001
Gu, X.R.
"Section One: Introduction Childhood on a Modern Drive: Growing up in East Asia", Bühler-Niederberger, D., Gu, X., Schwittek, J.
(Ed .) The Emerald Handbook of Childhood and Youth in Asian Societies , Emerald Publishing Limited, Bingley, pp.
13-23.
https://doi.org/10.1108/978-1-80382-283-920231002
"Can Subaltern Children Speak?
What China’s Children of Migrants Say About Mobility, Inequality and Agency", Bühler-Niederberger, D., Gu, X., Schwittek, J.
25-42.
https://doi.org/10.1108/978-1-80382-283-920231003
"The Case for a Value Turn in Childhood Sociology." Current Sociology, 70(4), 478–495.
"‘Save the children!’: Governing Left-behind Children through Family in China’s Great Migration.
" Current Sociology, 70(4), 513–538 (Shortlisted for Annual SAGE Current Sociology Best Paper Prize in 2023)
"Afterword: The Value of Children in the Global South: Current Contributions and Future Directions.
" Current Sociology, 70(4), 634-643.
Chen, C., Xiao, R.
Q., Gu, X.R., & Wu, L.W.
"Left-behind children in children's geography: Literature review and new agendas." Tropical Geography , 42(3), 373-384.
(in Chinese) (Rated Top 1% Paper according to Citation Standardized Index in 2021- 22 by China National Knowledge Infrastructure)
"Sacrifice and Indebtedness: The Intergenerational Contract in Chinese Rural Migrant Families.
" Journal of Family Issues ,43(2), 509-533.
& Yeung, W.
J.
"Why Chinese Adolescent Girls Outperform Boys in Achievement Tests." Chinese Journal of Sociology , 7(2):109-137.
"Editor’s Introduction: The Value of Children and Social Transformations in Asia." Child Indicators Research, 14(2): 477–486.
Tran T.
T., Gu X.
& Nguyen H.
"Complex Modernization: The Value of Children and Social Transformation in Contemporary Vietnam." Child Indicators Research, 14(2), 511–536.
"Parenting for Success: The Value of Children and Intensive Parenting in Post-reform China." Child Indicators Research, 14(2), 555–581.
"‘You’re Not Young Anymore!’: Gender, Age and the Politics of Reproduction in Post-reform China." Asian Bioethics Review , 13, 57–76.
& Yeung, W.J.
(2020) "Hopes and Hurdles: Rural Migrant Children’s Education in Urban China.
Chinese Sociological Review , 52(2),199-237.
"Chapter 9: An intersectional approach to the ‘mobility trap’ that plagues migrant youth in China." In S.
Swartz, A.
Cooper, R.
Camarena & C.
Batan (eds), Oxford Handbook of Global South Youth Studies .
Oxford University Press.
"Four Decades of Transition to First Marriage in China: Economic Reform and Persisting Marriage Norms." International Journal of Population Studies , 4(1), 24-38.
Yeung, W.
& GU, X.R.
"Left Behind by Parents in China: Internal Migration and Adolescents’ Well-being." Marriage and Family Review , 52(1-2):127-161.
Edited Special Issues and Book Volumes
Bühler-Niederberger, D., Gu, X.R., Schwittek, J.
& Kim, E.
(co-editors) (2023).
The Emerald Handbook of Childhood and Youth in Asian Societies .
The Value of Children in The Global South: A Critical Engagement , Special Monograph of Current Sociology, 70(4).
The Value of Children and Social Transformations in Asia .
Special issue of Child Indicators Research, 14(2).
Academic Conference/Seminar Organization
Co-organizer of panel session on Asian European Childhoods beyond the ‘Model Minority’ Myth: Perils, Paradoxes and Potentials , the 5 th International Sociological Association Forum, Rabat of Morocco, 2025
Organizing Committee of the Children and Childhoods Conference , University of Suffolk, 2024
Asian Graduate Student Fellowships committee, Asian Studies Workshops, Asia Research Institute, National University of Singapore, 2020-2021
Convenor of the Changing Family in Asia Reading Group , Asia Research Institute, National University of Singapore, 2018-2019
Co-organizer of the Conference on The Value of Children in Asia: Economy, Family and Public Policies , Asia Research Institute, National University of Singapore, November 2018.
Steering committee of the International Sociological Association RC06 & RC41 Joint Conference , Singapore, May 2018.
Organizer of the Sociology Department Graduate Research Seminar Series , National University of Singapore, 2015-2016
Gu is also a contributor to popular media in Chinese and English languages targeting at specialist and general readerships on China affairs, including South China Morning Post, Six Tone, The Intellectual, Ms.
Muse, The China Story Blog of the Australian National University, The Diplomat.
Gu is involved in several international projects in different capacities, including
She has also recently held academic visitorships to the University Duisburg-Essen and South China Normal University
Child Development in Context

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/professor-valerie-gladwell:
Professor Gladwell is extremely passionate about enhancing lifelong health, helping people to achieve, thrive and flourish by utilising the five ways to wellbeing: be active, take notice, give, connect and learn.
Her particular focus is the use of physical activity, whether by deliberate activity or by stealth.
Her research has investigated how the environment shapes physical activity, particularly the natural environment ("Green Exercise").
The natural environment also plays a key role in taking notice and her work with The Wildlife Trust explored the importance of volunteering.
The workspace is another important environment in which her research has focussed.
Her work has explored the use of physical activity to break up sedentary time with a particular focus on balance and strength (the “forgotten” guidelines).
As well as using nature within the working day to reduce stress and potentially improve sleep.
One aspect of her work is to explore the balance of the autonomic nervous system using heart rate variability.
For healthy ageing and to reduce non-communicable disease she believes that a pragmatic whole system approach is needed.
She works with a range of stakeholders and partners and her preference is to work as a team.
She has undertaken research and evaluation with a range of businesses, trying to co-design where she can.
One of the examples of this is her evaluation work with Essex County Council on Sport England's Local Delivery Pilot where she was one of the Project Managers of the Evaluation Consortium (2017-2021).
Her research utilises biochemical, physiological, and psychological skills.
Professor Gladwell is involved in the active training of post-graduate research students.
Although she currently has no undergraduate teaching she has in the past taught on a range of topics including Health and Active Lifestyle, anatomy, physiology, sport injuries and cell biology.
Papers
Sterckx, A., Van den Broeck, K., Remmen, R., Dekeirel, K., Hermans, H., Hesters, C., Daeseleire, T., Broes, V., Barton, J., Gladwell, V., Dandy, S., Connors, M., Lammel, A.
and Keune, H., (2021).
Operationalization of One Health Burnout Prevention and Recovery: Participatory Action Research-Design of Nature-Based Health Promotion Interventions for Employees.
9
Flowers, EP., Freeman, P.
and Gladwell, VF., (2018).
Enhancing the acute psychological benefits of green exercise: An investigation of expectancy effects .
Psychology of Sport and Exercise.
39, 213-221
Wooller, JJ., Rogerson, M., Barton, J., Micklewright, D.
and Gladwell, V., (2018).
Can Simulated Green Exercise Improve Recovery From Acute Mental Stress?
.
Frontiers in Psychology.
9 (NOV), 2167-
Carter, SE.
and Gladwell, VF., (2017).
Effect of breaking up sedentary time with callisthenics on endothelial function .
Journal of Sports Sciences.
35 (15), 1508-1514
Micklewright, D., St Clair Gibson, A., Gladwell, V.
and Al Salman, A., (2017).
Development and Validity of the Rating-of-Fatigue Scale .
Sports Medicine.
47 (11), 2375-2393
The Development of Three Questionnaires to Assess Beliefs about Green Exercise .
International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health.
14 (10), 1172-1172.
and Gladwell, V., (2016).
A cross-sectional study examining predictors of visit frequency to local green space and the impact this has on physical activity levels .
BMC Public Health.
16 (1), 420-
Wooller, JJ., Barton, J., Gladwell, VF.
and Micklewright, D., (2016).
Occlusion of sight, sound and smell during Green Exercise influences mood, perceived exertion and heart rate .
International Journal of Environmental Health Research.
26 (3), 267-280
Gladwell, V., Kuoppa, P., Tarvainen, M.
and Rogerson, M., (2016).
A Lunchtime Walk in Nature Enhances Restoration of Autonomic Control during Night-Time Sleep: Results from a Preliminary Study .
13 (3), 280-280
Rogerson, M., Gladwell, VF., Gallagher, DJ.
and Barton, JL., (2016).
Influences of green outdoors versus indoors environmental settings on psychological and social outcomes of controlled exercise .
13 (4), 363-363
A Lunchtime Walk in Nature Enhances Restoration of Autonomic Control during Night-Time Sleep: Results from a Preliminary Study.
13 (3)
Carter, SE., Jones, M.
and Gladwell, VF., (2015).
Energy expenditure and heart rate response to breaking up sedentary time with three different physical activity interventions .
Nutrition, Metabolism and Cardiovascular Diseases.
25 (5), 503-509
Weinstein, N., Balmford, A., DeHaan, CR., Gladwell, V., Bradbury, RB.
and Amano, T., (2015).
Seeing Community for the Trees: The Links among Contact with Natural Environments, Community Cohesion, and Crime .
Bioscience.
65 (12), 1141-1153
Brown, DK., Barton, JL., Pretty, J.
and Gladwell, VF., (2014).
Walks4Work: Assessing the role of the natural environment in a workplace physical activity intervention .
Scandinavian Journal of Work, Environment and Health.
40 (4), 390-399
Wood, C., Gladwell, V.
and Barton, J., (2014).
A Repeated Measures Experiment of School Playing Environment to Increase Physical Activity and Enhance Self-Esteem in UK School Children .
PLoS ONE.
9 (9), e108701-e108701
and Barton, JL., (2014).
A repeated measures experiment of school playing environment to increase physical activity and enhance self-esteem in UK school children.
PloS One.
9 (9), creators-Gladwell=3AValerie=3A=3A
Brown, DK., Barton, JL.
and Gladwell, VF., (2013).
Viewing Nature Scenes Positively Affects Recovery of Autonomic Function Following Acute-Mental Stress .
Environmental Science & Technology.
47 (11), 5562-5569
Gladwell, VF., Brown, DK., Wood, C., Sandercock, GR.
and Barton, JL., (2013).
The great outdoors: how a green exercise environment can benefit all .
Extreme Physiology & Medicine.
2 (1), 3-
Brown, D., Grimwade, D., Martinez-Bussion, D., Taylor, MJ.
and Gladwell, V., (2013).
The Validity of the ActiPed for Physical Activity Monitoring .
International Journal of Sports Medicine.
34 (05), 431-437
Lipponen, JA., Gladwell, VF., Kinnunen, H., Karjalainen, PA.
and Tarvainen, MP., (2013).
The correlation of vectorcardiographic changes to blood lactate concentration during an exercise test.
Biomedical Signal Processing and Control.
8 (6), 491-499
Gladwell, V., Brown, DK., Wood, C., Sandercock, G.
The Great Outdoors: how a green exercise environment can benefit all.
2 (3)
Przybylski, AK., Murayama, K., DeHaan, CR.
Motivational, emotional, and behavioural correlates of fear of missing out .
Computers in Human Behaviour.
29 (4), 1841-1848
Brown, DK., Grimwade, D., Martinez-Bussion, D., Taylor, MJD.
The Validity of the ActiPed for Physical Activity Monitoring.
International Journal Of Sports Medicine.
Hime, A., (2013).
Master's degrees in science.
The Biochemist.
35 (1), 33-34
Gladwell, VF., Brown, DK., Barton, JL., Tarvainen, MP., Kuoppa, P., Pretty, J., Suddaby, JM.
and Sandercock, GRH., (2012).
The effects of views of nature on autonomic control .
European Journal of Applied Physiology.
112 (9), 3379-3386
and Gladwell, VF., (2012).
Walks4work: Rationale and study design to investigate walking at lunchtime in the workplace setting .
12 (1), 550-
Brown, DK., Barton, JL., Pretty, JN.
and Gladwell, V., (2012).
Walks4work: Rationale and study design to investigate walking at lunchtime in the workplace setting.
12 (1), creators-Gladwell=3AValerie=3A=3A
Gladwell, VF., Sandercock, GRH.
and Birch, SL., (2010).
Cardiac vagal activity following three intensities of exercise in humans .
Clinical Physiology and Functional Imaging.
30 (1), 17-22
Sandercock, G., Gladwell, V., Dawson, S., Nunan, D., Brodie, D.
and Beneke, R., (2008).
Association between RR interval and high-frequency heart rate variability acquired during short-term, resting recordings with free and paced breathing .
Physiological Measurement.
29 (7), 795-802
Denna, I., Sandercock, G.
and Gladwell, V., (2008).
Evaluation of human autonomic response to mental stress 24 hours post-exercise .
Acta Cardiologica.
63 (4), creators-Sandercock=3AGavin=3A=3A
Sandercock, G., Voss, C.
Twenty-metre shuttle run test performance of English children aged 11 – 15 years in 2007: Comparisons with international standards .
26 (9), 953-957
Micklewright, D., Sellens, M., Gladwell, V.
and Beneke, R., (2006).
Blood lactate removal using combined massage and active recovery.
Biology of Sport.
23 (4), 315-325
Gladwell, V., Head, S., Haggar, M.
Does a Program of Pilates Improve Chronic Non-Specific Low Back Pain?.
Journal of Sport Rehabilitation.
15 (4), 338-350
Gladwell, VF., Fletcher, J., Patel, N., Elvidge, LJ., Lloyd, D., Chowdhary, S.
and Coote, JH., (2005).
The influence of small fibre muscle mechanoreceptors on the cardiac vagus in humans.
The Journal of Physiology.
567 (2), 713-721
Micklewright, D., Griffin, M., Gladwell, V.
and Beneke, R., (2005).
Mood State Response to Massage and Subsequent Exercise Performance.
The Sport Psychologist.
19 (3), 234-250
Gladwell, VF.
and Coote, JH., (2002).
Heart rate at the onset of muscle contraction and during passive muscle stretch in humans: a role for mechanoreceptors.
540 (3), 1095-1102
Journal of Physiology.
Rogerson, M., Barton, J., Gladwell, V.
and Pretty, J., The Green Exercise Concept: Two intertwining pathways to health and wellbeing.
In: Physical Activity in Natural Settings: Green Exercise & Blue Mind.
Editors: MacIntyre, T.
and Aoife, D., .
Routledge (2019).
The Routledge Companion to Rural Planning.
In: The Routledge Companion to Rural Planning.
495- 507.
9781138104051
Gladwell, V.
and Brown, DK., (2016).
Green Exercise in the Workplace .
In: Green Exercise Linking Nature, Health and Well-being.
Editors: Barton, JL., Bragg, R., Wood, C.
and Pretty, JN., .
139- 149.
9781138807648
She has been a Council member of The Physiological Society and in BASES was deputy divisional chair for Physical Activity and Health.
She currently reviews for BASES.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/dr-ruth-strudwick:
Ruth is Head of Allied Health Professions and Professor in Diagnostic Radiography in the School of Allied Health Sciences at the University of Suffolk.
Ruth is a Diagnostic Radiographer by background.
She has been a Lecturer since 2003, and before that worked as Clinical Lecturer at The Ipswich Hospital NHS Trust and as a Diagnostic Radiographer at The Ipswich Hospital NHS Trust.
Ruth completed her professional doctorate in 2011 entitled 'An ethnographic study of the culture in a Diagnostic Imaging Department'.
She continues to be research active and her funded research focuses on radiography professional practice and education, and on service evaluation.
Ruth teaches on several courses at the University of Suffolk and is interested in interprofessional working, clinical education, values-based practice, ethnographic research and work-based culture.
Research interests
Ruth is keen to supervise doctoral student projects in healthcare and radiography, particularly using qualitative methodologies and more specifically ethnographic studies.
Her research interests include interprofessional working, clinical education and practice-based learning, values-based practice, ethnographic research and work-based culture.
Current projects
An exploration of the implementation and use of the guiding principles, of the College of Radiographers’ “Patient, Public and Practitioner Partnership within Imaging and Radiotherapy” (P4) document, within the four domains of radiography practice.
Research skills
Qualitative methodologies and methods; participant observation, interviews & focus groups.
Strudwick R M (2024) Patient Care in General Radiography in Chau S, Hyde E, Knapp K & Hayre C M (2024) Person-Centred Care in Radiology – International Perspectives on High Quality Care.
CRC Press, London.
Harvey-Lloyd J M, Strudwick R M, Preston S (2024) Fundamentals of Radiographic Positioning and Anatomy.
Wiley
Strudwick R M, Harvey-Lloyd J M, Bleiker J, Gooch J, Hancock A, Hyde E, Newton-Hughes A.
(2023) Person-centred Care in Radiography: Skills for Providing Effective Patient Care.
Wiley.
Naylor S, Booth S, Harvey-Lloyd J & Strudwick R (2022).
Reflecting on the use of virtual focus groups for exploring the experiences of diagnostic radiographers during the COVID-19 pandemic.
https://doi.org/10.4135/9781529601817
Strudwick R M & Hadwen H C (2022) Interviewing in a Digital Era in Hayre C M, Hackett P M W, Muller D & Scherer M (2022) Digital Methods in Qualitative Research
Strudwick R M & Hayre C M (2021) Ethnography in rehabilitation: Current methodological applications in Hayre C M, Hackett P M W & Muller D (2021) Rehabilitation in Practice: Ethnographic Perspectives.
Springer.
Strudwick R, Pickering S & Holten J (2021) Creating a platform together for the voice of the service user.
Inspiration for organising an event together with service users in Driessens K & Lyssens-Danneboom V (2021) Involving Service Users in Social Work Education, Research and Policy.
Bristol University Press & Policy Press.
Strudwick R M (2021) The Ethnographic Radiographer.
Palgrave Macmillan.
Strudwick R (2020) Fieldnotes in Ethnographic Research in Hackett P M W & Hayre C M (2020) Handbook of Ethnography in Healthcare Research.
Routledge, London.
Strudwick R (2020) Ethnographic investigations of a diagnostic imaging department in Hackett P M W & Hayre C M (2020) Handbook of Ethnography in Healthcare Research.
Strudwick R (2018) Blame Culture in the National Health Service (NHS), UK in Thomas W, Hujala A, Laulainen S & McMurray R (2018) The Management of Wicked Problems in Health and Social Care.
Strudwick R (2018) Discussion and Collaboration in Diagnostic Radiography in Vine T, Clark J, Richards S & Wier D (2018) Ethnographic Research and Analysis: Anxiety, Identity and Self.
Palgrave MacMillan, London.
Articles in peer-reviewed international journals:
Clerkin N, Ski C, Suleiman M, Gandomkar Z, Brennan P & Strudwick R (2024) An initial exploration of factors that may impact radiographer performance in reporting mammograms, Radiography , Vol 30, Issue 6, September 2024, P 1495-1500
Strudwick R M, Ramlaul A, Shuttleworth P & Fiyebor C (2024) Patient, public and practitioner partnership within imaging and radiotherapy: An exploration of the implementation and use of the college of radiographers guiding principles.
Radiography, Vol 30, Issue 5, August 2024, P 1376-1384
Hyde E, Hardy M, Strudwick R M & Upton A (2024) The impact of a massive open online course on levels of awareness of patient centred care in UK-based diagnostic radiographers.
The Journal of Practice Teaching and Learning, 22.
https://doi.org/10.1921/jpts.v20i3.2211
Preston S, Strudwick R M & Cox W A S (2024) Medical Image sharing: What do the public see when reviewing radiographs?
A pilot study.
Journal of Medical Imaging and Radiation Sciences .
Coleman G, Hyde E & Strudwick R (2024) Exploring UK sonographers’ views on the use of professional supervision in clinical practice – Stage one findings of a mixed method study.
Radiography, Volume 30, Issue 1, January 2024, P 252-256.
Cushen-Brewster N, Malloy E, Black J, Strudwick R, Driscoll-Evans P, Zeppetella G & Bengtson K (2023) Evaluating a specialist palliative care service in a community setting.
British Journal of Healthcare Management , Vol.
29, No.
Spencer S, Zelenyanszki C, Strudwick R M & Mizzi D (2023) Is it still a genuine occupational requirement to have a female only mammographic workforce in breast screening?
Guest Editorial.
Radiography , Volume 29, Issue 6, October 2023, Pages 1121-1122.
Clerkin N, Ski C F, Brennan P C & Strudwick R (2023) Radiographers filling the mammography screening gap, but where's the evidence?
Radiography, Volume 29, Issue 4, 2023, p827-828, ISSN 1078-8174, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.radi.2023.06.001.
Newton-Hughes A & Strudwick R M (2023) An Exploration of Values-based Radiography from the perspective of the service user.
Radiography 2023
Radiography 2023, Vol 29, Supplement 1, S40-4
Clerkin N, Brennan P, Ski C & Strudwick R M (2023) Identification of factors associated with diagnostic performance variation in reporting of mammograms: a review.
Radiography 2023, Vol 29, March 2023, Issue 2, p340-346
Booth S, Verrier W, Naylor S, Strudwick R, Harvey-Lloyd J.
(2022) Interprofessional practice in the Intensive Treatment Unit during the Covid-19 pandemic; the reflections of an Advanced Practitioner Radiographer.
Journal of Interprofessional Education & Practice, 2022, 100561, ISSN 2405-4526, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.xjep.2022.100561 .
Gkiouleka A, Aquino M R J, Ojo-Aromokudu O, van Daalen K R, Kuhn I L, Turner-Moss E, Thomas K, Barnard R, Strudwick R, Ford J (2022) Allied health professionals: A promising ally in the work against health inequalities- A rapid review.
Public Health in Practice, DOI: 10.1016/j.puhip.2022.100269
Naylor S, Booth S, Harvey-Lloyd J, Strudwick R (2021) Experiences of Diagnostic Radiographers through the Covid-19 pandemic.
Radiography 2022 Vol 28, Issue 1, p187-192.
Strudwick R, Harris M, McAlinney H, Plant P, Shuttleworth P, Woodley J, Harris R & O’Regan T (2021) The College of Radiographers Research Strategy for the next five years.
Radiography 2021 Supplement 1, S5-S8.
Strudwick R, Cushen-Brewster N, Driscoll-Evans P & Doolan C (2021) An evaluation of the experiences of academics and practice educators who supported radiography students working on the temporary HCPC register during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Radiography 2021 Vol 27, Issue 4, p1179-1184.
Cushen-Brewster N, Strudwick R, Driscoll-Evans P & Doolan C (2021) An evaluation of the experiences of radiography students working on the temporary HCPC register during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Radiography 2021 Vol 27, Issue 4, p1000-1005.
Malamateniou C & Strudwick R (2021) How Artificial Intelligence is changing radiography now and in for the future.
Imaging and Oncology, 2021, p8-13.
Hadwen H, Harvey-Lloyd J & Strudwick R M (2020) From selection to registration, and beyond: Supporting the student diagnostic radiographer in becoming a compassionate professional.
The Journal of Practice Teaching and Learning, Vol 17, No 2, p78-90.
Strudwick R M (2020) Ethnographic research in healthcare – patients and service users as participants.
Disability and Rehabilitation.
ISSN 1464-5165
O’Regan T, Robinson L, Newton-Hughes A & Strudwick R (2019) A review of visual ethnography: Radiography viewed through a different lens.
Radiography, Vol.
25 (2019) S9-S13.
Hayre C M & Strudwick R M (2019) Ethnography for Radiographers: A Methodological Insight for Prospective Researchers.
Journal of Medical Imaging and Radiation Sciences xx (2019) 1-7.
Strudwick R M, Harvey-Lloyd J M & Hadwen H C (2019) The Role of Interprofessional Learning in Developing Transformative Health & Social Work Professionals.
The Journal of Practice Teaching and Learning, Vol.
16, No.1, p96-108
Taylor K, Orlowski L & Strudwick R (2019) Perceptions and experiences that may influence consideration of breast imaging as a career option.
25, May 2019, p129-135
Harvey-Lloyd J M & Strudwick R M (2018) Embracing diversity in radiography: The role of service users.
24, Supplement 1, October 2018, S16-S19.
Fulford K W M, Newton-Hughes A, Strudwick R and Handa A (2018) Values-based Practice for Imaging and Therapy Professionals: An Introduction.
Imaging and Oncology, 2018, p26-33.
Strudwick R M (2018) Tensions in ethnographic observation: overt or covert?
Journal of Organizational Ethnography, https://doi.org/10.1108/JOE-11-2016-0022
Strudwick R M & Harvey-Lloyd J M (2017) Interprofessional Interactions Study.
The Journal of Practice Learning and Teaching, Vol 15, No 1, p81-93.
Strudwick R M & Taylor K (2017) An investigation into breast imaging as part of the undergraduate (UG) education of diagnostic radiography students in the UK.
Radiography, Vol 23.
Issue 2, May 2017, p141-146.
Cox, WAS, Strudwick, R., Bello, F.
& Cavenagh, P.
(2017) Broadening the perspective on radiography education.
Journal of Social Science & Allied Health Professions.
1 (1), e1 - e5.
Strudwick R & Harvey-Lloyd J (2016) An Innovative Interprofessional Assessment.
International Journal of Practice-based Learning in Health and Social Care, Vol.
4, No.2, December 2016, pp88-100.
Strudwick R (2016) Labelling patients.
Radiography, Vol 22.
Issue 1, February 2016, p50-55.
Strudwick R M & Day J (2015) Developing Effective Assignment Feedback for an Interprofessional Learning Module – An Action Research Project.
Nurse Education Today 35 (2015) pp.
974-980
Strudwick R M & Day J (2014) Interprofessional Working in Diagnostic Radiography.
Radiography, Vol 20.
Issue 3, August 2014, p235-240.
Strudwick R M (2014) The Radiographic Image:  A Cultural Artefact?
Issue 2, May 2014, p143-147.
Strudwick R M and Day J (2013) A Seminar Series in Practice for Interprofessional Learning (IPL) Health and Social Care Education 2(2), 48-52.
DOI: 10.11120/hsce.2013.00030
Strudwick R and Harvey-Lloyd J (2013) Preparation for Practice through Service User involvement in the Diagnostic Radiography curriculum at University Campus Suffolk.
International Journal of Practice-based Learning in Health and Social Care.
1(2), 37-46.
DOI: 10.11120/pblh.2013.00016
Boyle H & Strudwick R M (2010) Do lead rubber aprons pose an infection risk?
Radiography, Vol 16.
Issue 4, November 2010, p297-303.
Platt J M & Strudwick R M (2009) The application of anatomical side markers during abdominal and IVU examinations: An investigation of practice prior to and post-installation of computed radiography (CR).
15, Issue 4, November 2009, p292-299.
Ruffles H & Strudwick R M (2009) A comparison of fluoroscopy time and dose are product (DAP) readings for outpatient barium enema examinations.
15.
Issue 1, February 2009, p49-57.
Spanton D & Strudwick R (2007) A comparison of patient dose levels between 3/4 vessel conventional angiography and computed tomography angiography during examinations to investigate subarachnoid haemorrhage.
13, Issue 3, August 2007, p173-179.
Other articles/publications:
Strudwick R M (2022) The Ethnographic Radiographer.
Insight, Edition 3, Spring 2022, p34-37.
St Barbe Oldham H U & Strudwick R M (2022) Adult foot radiographs.
Insight, Edition 3, Spring 2022, p13-21.
Diggens I J & Strudwick R (2021) The Ottawa guidelines and ankle joints.
Insight, Edition 2, Winter 2021, p22-27.
The Society of Radiographers (2021) Clinical Academic Radiographer: Guidance for the support of new and established roles.
Society of Radiographers, London.
Ford J, Aquino M R J, Ojo-Aromokudu O, Van Daalen K, Gkiouleka A, Kuhn I, Turner-Moss E, Thomas K, Barnard R and Strudwick R (2021) Rapid Review of the Impact of Allied Health Professionals on Health Inequalities.
March 2021, Commissioned by Public Health England, University of Cambridge.
Available at: https://www.phpc.cam.ac.uk/pcu/files/2021/05/AHP-and-Inequalities-Final-Version-V2.0.pdf
Strudwick R & Hendry J (2021) Values-based practice – An evaluation of teaching sessions at two universities.
Imaging & Therapy Practice, February 2021, p11-15.
Strudwick R (2020) My Dad and Values-Based Practice.
Synergy News, February 2020 p12 &13.
Strudwick R (2019) ‘Compassion in Radiography’ MedRadBLogs, 23 October.
Available at: https://medradresearch.wordpress.com/2019/10/11/compassion-in-radiography/
Strudwick R M (2019) Embedding values-based practice in day to day clinical practice.
Synergy News, October 2019, p11
Strudwick R M (2019) Values-based practice in action.
Synergy News, September 2019, p18
Strudwick R M (2019) Is there any value in values-based practice?
Synergy News, August 2019, p18.
Strudwick R M (2019) A Guide to Values-Based Practice in Radiography.
14 May:  Available at https://www.carestream.com/blog/2019/05/14/values-based-practice-in-radiography/
The Association of Radiography Educators, The College of Radiographers and The Collaborating Centre for Values-based Practice in Health and Social Care (2018).
Values-based Practice in Diagnostic and Therapeutic Radiography: A Training Template [online] [Date accessed].
Available from: https://www.sor.org/sites/default/files/document-versions/2018.10.03_radiography_vbp_training_manual_-_final.pdf
Robinson L, Goodwill G, Harris R, Johnson L, LePensee S, Mada M, Malamateniou C, Plant P, Probst H, Samuels L, Shuttleworth P, Strudwick R, Williamson M (2018) Patient Public and Practitioner Partnerships within Imaging and Radiotherapy: Guiding Principles.
College of Radiographers, London.
Strudwick R, Everill C, Wood J & Madzara V (2018) Learning to Listen.
Imaging & Therapy Practice, June 2018 p22-25.
Hyde E & Strudwick R (2017) How prepared are students for the workplace?
Imaging & Therapy Practice, September 2017 p5-11.
Strudwick R & Newton-Hughes A (2017) Values-Based Practice in Radiography.
Imaging & Therapy Practice, June 2017 p10-16.
Hadwen H, Strudwick R & Harvey-Lloyd J (2016) Values-Based Radiography.
Imaging & Therapy Practice, November 2016 p25-29.
Wojcik-Gammell D & Strudwick R (2016) Accurate Diagnosis Vital for Patients – A Retrospective Audit of the Image Quality of Chest Radiographs.
Imaging & Therapy Practice, April 2016 p5-10.
Strudwick R (2016) Working With Radiation.
Imaging & Therapy Practice, March 2016 p22-25.
Strudwick R (2015) ‘Radiographer decision-making’ MedRadBLogs, 22 October.
Available at: https://medradjclub.wordpress.com/2015/10/05/october-22nd-radiographer-decision-making/
Strudwick R (2015) Creating a Professional Culture.
Imaging & Therapy Practice, September 2015 p23-29.
Girling S & Strudwick R (2015) Seeing Red – Is there a need for a red-dot system in CT scanning?
Imaging & Therapy Practice, June 2015 p4-7.
Strudwick R & Harvey-Lloyd J (2015) On Reflection.
Imaging & Therapy Practice, January 2015 p23-25.
Strudwick R (2014) Participant Observation: An Ethnographic Study of the Culture in a Diagnostic Imaging Department.
SAGE Publications, Ltd., London, United Kingdom, viewed 3 September 2014, doi: http://dx.doi.org/10.4135/978144627305014537965.
Guest R & Strudwick R (2014) Where’s the emergency?
Imaging and Therapy Practice, June 2014 p 20-25.
Strudwick R (2014) Keeping it Professional.
Imaging and Therapy Practice, April 2014 p 26-30.
Graca J, Strudwick R, & Harvey-Lloyd J (2014) Are you Autism Aware?
– Information Leaflet for Radiographers.
University Campus Suffolk, Ipswich.
Timmins J, Strudwick R, & Harvey-Lloyd J (2014) A guide for Radiographers:  Let me talk to you about Asperger Syndrome – Information Leaflet for Radiographers.
Graca J, Timmins J, Strudwick R & Harvey-Lloyd J (2013) Autism and Asperger syndrome – do you know what they are?
Imaging and Therapy Practice, January 2014 p 22-25.
Lidgett T, Harvey-Lloyd J, Cobb C & Strudwick R (2013) A Case of Craniopharyngioma.
Imaging and Therapy Practice, October 2013 p 9-14.
Harvey-Lloyd J and Strudwick R (2013) Weighing up the benefits.
Imaging and Therapy Practice, August 2013 p10-14.
Strudwick R, Mackay S & Hicks S (2013) It’s good to share – The importance of discussion and story-telling in diagnostic radiography.
Imaging and Therapy Practice.
March 2013, p27-31.
Strudwick R M & Harvey-Lloyd J M (2012) Ready or not?
How prepared are diagnostic radiography students for their first practice placement?
A small scale study in one university.
Synergy.
December 2012, p25-30.
Strudwick R, Mackay S & Hicks S (2012) Team working in diagnostic radiography – choreography or chaos?
July 2012, p19-24.
Strudwick R, Mackay S & Hicks S (2012) Cracking up?
The use of dark humour in the radiography department.
February 2012, p4-7.
Strudwick R, Mackay S & Hicks S (2011) Is There a Blame Culture in Diagnostic Radiography?
December 2011, p4-7.
Strudwick R, Mackay S & Hicks S (2011) Is Diagnostic Radiography a Caring Profession?
Synergy, June 2011, p4-7.
Strudwick R, Mackay S & Hicks S (2011) An ethnographic study of the culture in a Diagnostic Imaging department (DID) – some personal reflections.
Proceedings of the Salford Postgraduate Annual Research Conference, 2010.
University of Salford, Research and Graduate College, p360-371
Lawrance W & Strudwick R (2010) To lift or not to lift.
Synergy, July 2010, p20-22.
Strudwick R M (2010) An ethnographic study of the culture in a Diagnostic Imaging department (DID) – some initial findings.
Proceedings of the Salford Postgraduate Annual Research Conference, 2009.
University of Salford, Research and Graduate College, p364-373
Taylor K & Strudwick R (2010) X marks the spot.
Synergy, March 2010, p16-18.
Strudwick R (2009) Looking from the inside out.
Synergy, December 2009, p20-23.
Berry F & Strudwick R (2009) A case of: Pituitary Adenoma.
Synergy, July 2009, p8-10.
Ducker J & Strudwick R (2009) Where are we now?
A literature review comparing the accuracy of reporting Accident and Emergency radiographs between radiographers and radiologists.
Synergy, April 2009, p28-31.
Strudwick R (2009) Focussing on User needs.
Synergy, January 2009, p6.
Strudwick R M (2008) Why Ethnography is a suitable methodology to study the culture in a Diagnostic Imaging Department (DID).
Proceedings of the Salford Postgraduate Annual Research Conference, 8th-9th May 2008, University of Salford, Research and Graduate College, p230-241.
Lawrance W & Strudwick R (2008) How to recognise Achondroplasia.
Synergy, April 2008, p12-13.
Baker R & Strudwick R (2007) How to improve your gestures.
Synergy, July 2007, p12-14.
Ruffles H & Strudwick R (2007) An insight into the Electrocardiogram.
Synergy, May 2007, p24-27.
Palmer I & Strudwick R (2007) How to understand the Psychology of imaging children.
Synergy, May 2007, p12-13.
Strudwick R (2007) Basic Life Support - Would you know what to do?
Synergy, May 2007, p4-5.
International conferences:
Strudwick R M (2024) The use of focus groups in research.
EFRS How to series for all researchers, Seminar 2, 9 th October 2024.
Strudwick R M (2024) The use of interviews in research.
Strudwick R M (2024) Qualitative Research: An Overview.
EFRS How to series for all researchers, Seminar 1, 18 th September 2024.
Strudwick R (2024) Frontstage and backstage.
The 17 th Annual Ethnography Symposium, Cardiff Business School, 28 th -30 th August 2024.
Strudwick R (2024) Facilitation of a Service User Group.
Oral presentation.
International Congress of Health Workforce Education and Research, Barcelona, Spain 26th-27th June 2024.
Strudwick R, Ramlaul A, Shuttleworth P & Fiyebor C (2024) Patient, Public and Practitioner Partnership within imaging and radiotherapy – an exploration of the implementation and use of the College of Radiographers Guiding Principles.
Oral presentation UKIO, Liverpool, 10th-12th June 2024.
Poster presentation.
UKIO, Liverpool, 10th-12th June 2024.
Booth S & Strudwick R (2024) Exploring the experiences of radiographers required to shield during the Covid-19 pandemic.
Strudwick R (2023) Values-Based Practice in Radiography.
International Imaging Congress, London Olympia, 31st October & 1st November 2023.
Strudwick R (2023) Thinking like ‘an outsider’.
The 16 th Annual Ethnography Symposium, Vrije Universieit Amsterdam, 23 rd -25 th August 2023.
Strudwick R (2023) Storytelling & discussion during imaging – the radiography educator as a storyteller.
The Suffolk Storytelling Conference 2023, University of Suffolk, 10 th -12 th July 2023.
Strudwick R (2023) Establishing a core integrated care curriculum.
AOME – INHWE Joint Conference 2023, Learning Together for Clinical Excellence, Cardiff, 27th-29th June 2023.
Strudwick R (2023) Doing a Professional Doctorate.
Invited speaker.
UKIO, Liverpool, 5th-7th July 2023.
Strudwick R (2023) Values-based practice.
Hyde E, Hardy M, Strudwick R, Upton A (2023) Evaluating the impact of a massive open online course designed to increase awareness of patient centred care in diagnostic radiographers.
Strudwick R (2023) The ethnographic radiographer: using ethnography to study professional culture.
Clerkin N, Ski C, Brennan P & Strudwick R (2023) Clinical background factors that impact the performance of radiography advanced practitioners.
Coleman G, Hyde E & Strudwick R (2023) Early findings of a scoping survey exploring UK sonographers views on professional supervision.
Dalen Seime N, Arhus G, Costa P, Huhtanen J, Jaronen M, Kamp C, Kraus B, Matthews K, Strudwick R, Tcacenco A, & Zarb F (2022) Evaluation of case simulations for radiographer education within FORCE project.
ISRRT WC2022 Bangkok, Thailand, 15th-17th December 2022.
Matthews K, Arhus G, Costa P, Dalen Seime N, Huhtanen J, Jaronen M, Kamp C, Kraus B, Strudwick R, Tcacenco A, & Zarb F (2022) The FORCE project: a framework for online radiographer clinical education.
ISRRT WC2022 Bangkok, Thailand, 15th-17th December 2022
Matthews K, Arhus G, Costa P, Dalen Seime N, Huhtanen J, Jaronen M, Kamp C, Kraus B, Strudwick R, Tcacenco A, & Zarb F (2022) Developing patient case simulations for teaching: experience and advice from the FORCE project.
Clerkin N, Ski C.F., Brennan P.C.
& Strudwick R (2022) Characteristics associated with high interpretation performance amongst Radiography Advanced Practitioners (RAPs) involved in breast cancer screening.
BCI, Cambridge, 13th -14thSeptember 2022
Strudwick R M (2022) Tribalism in a Global Pandemic.
15th Annual Ethnography Symposium, 23rd-26th August 2022.
University of Suffolk
ECR, Vienna, 13th-17th July 2022.
Naylor S, Strudwick R, Harvey-Lloyd J & Booth S (2022) The experiences of diagnostic radiographers through the Covid-19 pandemic.
Strudwick R (2022) The College of Radiographers Research strategy 2021-2026.
UKIO, Liverpool, 4th-6th July 2022.
Strudwick R (2022) What does the CoRIPS funding scheme look for?
Naylor S, Booth S, Strudwick R & Harvey-Lloyd J (2022) Experiences of diagnostic radiographers through the Covid-19 pandemic.
Harvey-Lloyd J and Strudwick R (2021) Underpinning the Journey of Advanced Clinical Practitioners.
Leading The Way in Radiography Advanced Practice, 3rd Biennial Global Conference (Online), 18th-21st November 2021.
Strudwick R M, Hadwen H C & Harvey-Lloyd J M (2021) Interprofessional learning: sharing experiences of a family case study online.
Practice Teaching & Learning Conference, Online, 13th-14th October 2021.
Strudwick R M (2021) Values-based Practice Training for Radiographers.
2021 ISRRT World Congress, Online, 20th-22nd August 2021.
Strudwick R M (2021) Ethnography, participant observation and interviews.
The Doctorate Den.
UKIO, Online, 21st June 2021.
Strudwick R M (2021) Equality, diversity, and inclusion (EDI) issues for radiography: Application within radiography curricula.
European Congress of Radiology 2021, March 2021 On-demand online programme.
European Society of Radiology, BS4.
Strudwick R M (2020) Values Based Practice and Radiographers.
Collaborating Centre for Values Based Practice Conference Autumn 2020.
Online Conference.
Strudwick R M (2020) Interprofessional Working in Diagnostic Radiography.
A Festival of Ethnography 2020, Replacing the 15th Annual Ethnography Symposium, Online, 26th-28th August 2020.
Newton-Hughes A & Strudwick R (2020) Values-based radiography: what patients, radiographers, and managers value in their examinations and treatments.
European Congress of Radiology 2020, 2020 Online.
European Society of Radiology.
Strudwick R M (2019) Using all of the senses; an ethnography in a hospital setting.
14th Annual Ethnography Symposium, 28th–30th August 2019.
University of Portsmouth
Strudwick R M (2019) Values-based practice in radiography – pie in the sky or practically possible?
Critical Management Studies 11th International Conference – Precarious Presents, Open Futures, Open University, Milton Keynes 27th – 29th June 2019.
Strudwick R, Newton-Hughes A, Gibson S, Harris J, Gradwell M, Hyde E, Harvey-Lloyd J, O’Regan T & Hendry J (2019) Values-Based Practice (VBP) Training for Radiographers.
European Congress of Radiology 2019 the Bigger Picture, 2019 Vienna.
European Society of Radiology, B-0033.
Strudwick R M & Harvey-Lloyd J M (2019) Assessment for the Interprofessional Learning (IPL) Working with Others Module.
2nd European Conference of Health Education & Research, Interprofessional Education.
RCSI, Dublin, Ireland, 9th-10th January 2019.
Strudwick R M & Pickering S (2019) Effective interprofessional education; an innovative approach to delivering collaborative working.
Strudwick R M, Hadwen H C & Harvey-Lloyd J M (2019) The Role of Interprofessional Learning in Developing Transformative Health and Social Work Professionals.
Hadwen H C, Strudwick R M & Harvey-Lloyd J M (2018) From selection to registration, and beyond; Supporting the student radiographer in becoming a compassionate professional – poster presentation.
12th International Conference on Practice Teaching and Field Education in Health & Social Work, St John’s College, Oxford, 10th-11th September 2018.
Strudwick R M & Pickering S (2018) “Can you hear me?” The voice of the service user – poster presentation.
Strudwick R M, Harvey-Lloyd J M & Hadwen H C (2018) The Role of Interprofessional Learning in Developing Transformative Health and Social Work Professionals.
Strudwick R M & Harvey-Lloyd J M (2018) Incorporating Service User Feedback into Practice Placement Assessments for Student Radiographers.
Strudwick R M (2018) Ethical approval in the NHS for Ethnographic Research, is this really possible?
13th Annual Ethnography Symposium, 28th–31st August 2018.
Copenhagen Business School.
Strudwick R M & Pickering S (2018) Service user involvement in an interprofessional conference.
Extended Service User Involvement European Book Project Conference, 22nd & 23rd March 2018.
Center of Expertise Strengths Based Social Work, Karel de Grote University College, Antwerp.
O'Regan T, Robinson L, Newton-Hughes A & Strudwick R (2018) An account of silence in radiography: a cultural quilt stitched together with the threads of social defence.
European Congress of Radiology 2018 Diverse & United, 2018 Vienna.
European Society of Radiology, S525.
Strudwick R & Pickering S (2017) ‘Can You Hear Me?
The Voice of the Service User’.
An International Field Education Symposium – Changing Places: Health, Social Work and Community Placements, Monash University, Prato, 15th September 2017.
Strudwick R M (2017) Effective inter-professional education; an innovative approach to delivering collaborative working.
Critical Management Studies 10th International Conference – Time for Another Revolution, Edge Hill University Business School, Liverpool, 3rd – 5th July 2017.
Strudwick R M (2016) Tensions in Ethnographic Observation: Overt or Covert?
11th Annual Ethnography Symposium, 24th–26th August 2016.
University of the West of England.
Strudwick R, Pickering S & Lewis K (2016) An Innovative Interprofessional Collaborative Working Day.
International Practice Learning and Field Education Conference 2016 – Assessing with Confidence: Supporting Learning & Assessment in Practice 4th-6th April, Belfast.
Strudwick R & Harvey-Lloyd J (2016) Interprofessional Case Study Assessment.
Harvey-Lloyd J & Strudwick R (2016) Simulation for Student Radiographers – Patient Positioning & Image Viewing.
Strudwick R & Harvey-Lloyd J (2015) Interprofessional Interactions Study – Poster Presentation.
26th International Networking for Education (NET) Conference, 8th – 10th September 2015.
Churchill College, University of Cambridge.
Strudwick R, Harvey-Lloyd J & Cox W A S (2015) Evaluation of Evening Simulation Sessions – Poster Presentation.
Strudwick R & Black P (2015) Service User Feedback in Practice.
Strudwick R M (2015) Reflection on an Ethnographic Study in Diagnostic Radiography.
10th Annual Ethnography Symposium, 26th–28th August 2015.
University of Liverpool.
Strudwick R M (2015) Blame culture in the NHS.
Critical Management Studies 9th International Conference – Is there an alternative?
Management after critique, School of Management, University of Leicester, 7th-10th July 2015.
Strudwick R M (2014) The use of Dark Humour in Diagnostic Radiography.
9th Annual Ethnography Symposium, 27th–29th August 2014.
University Campus Suffolk.
Harvey-Lloyd J, Rugg H, Day J & Strudwick R (2014).
Health and social care students’ perceptions of professional identity and shared values – Poster presentation.
10th International Conference on Practice Teaching and Field Education in Health and Social Work Glasgow, April 7th - 8th 2014.
University of Strathclyde, Glasgow.
Harvey-Lloyd J & Strudwick R (2014).
Using theme boarding to explore student experiences of practice learning.
10th International Conference on Practice Teaching and Field Education in Health and Social Work Glasgow, April 7th -8th 2014.
National UK conferences:
Strudwick R & Walters S (2024) Facilitation of a Service User group.
CAHPR East Anglia One Day Conference, Saturday 11 th May 2024, The Thomas Paine Hotel, Thetford.
Strudwick R & Walters S (2023) Facilitation of a Service User group.
The National Association of Educators in Practice (NAEP) Conference Practice Education – Enabling Transition, Thursday 12th October 2023 at The Studio, Birmingham.
Underdown, E, Strudwick, R & Harvey-Lloyd, J (2023) Mammographers experiences during the Covid-19 Pandemic.
Symposium Mammographicum Conference, 21 June 2023, Glasgow
Naylor S, Booth S, Harvey-Lloyd J & Strudwick R (2022) Impact of Covid-19 on Radiographers.
The Medical Imaging Convention & Oncology Convention, 15th and 16th November 2022, Online.
Naylor S, Booth S, Harvey-Lloyd J & Strudwick R (2022) Exploring diagnostic radiographers’ experiences through the Covid-19 pandemic.
Covid-19 recovery: the way forward for radiography practitioners, City, University of London, 17th June 2022.
Strudwick R M (2021) College of Radiographers Research Strategy 2021-2026.
Getting into Research Seminar Series, online, 19th July 2021.
Strudwick R M (2021) Ethnography, Participant Observation and Interviews.
The Doctorate Den, UKIO, Online 21st June, 2021.
Aquino, M.
V., Ojo-Aromokudu, O., van Daalen, K., Gkiouleka, A., Kuhn., I., Turner-Moss, E., Thomas, K., Barnard, R., Strudwick, R., & Ford, J.
(2021) A Rapid Review of the Impact of Allied Health Professionals on Health Inequalities.
Public Health England Public Health Research and Science Conference 2021.
Online, May 24-27, 2021
Strudwick R (2021) Values-based Practice in Radiography– Pie in the sky or practically possible?
In Whose
placement is it anyway?
Publication of peer-reviewed abstracts accepted for the 2020 NAEP Annual Conference.
Available at: https://naep-uk.org
Hadwen H, Harvey-Lloyd J & Strudwick R (2021) The challenges in preparing diagnostic radiography students to become compassionate professionals.
In Whose placement is it anyway?
Strudwick R, Tyrell K, Tocca A, Marshall J, Page A & Barber S (2019) Dementia Together: A Local Service Evaluation – poster presentation.
Dying for Change – Evolution and Revolution in Palliative Care, Hospice UK Conference, ACC Liverpool, 20th-22nd November 2019.
Strudwick R M (2019) Values-based Practice in Diagnostic and Therapeutic Radiography: A Training Template.
Patient, Public and Practitioner Partnerships with Diagnostic Imaging and Radiotherapy.
9th October 2019,  Renaissance Manchester City Centre Hotel.
O’Regan, T., Robinson, L., Newton-Hughes, A.
and Strudwick, R.
Exploring the humanistic work of clinical imaging: Emotional labour and gifts of caring.
UK Imaging & Oncology Congress 2019; P15; 10-12 June 2019; Liverpool.
York; ROC Events Ltd; 2019.
Available at : https://edition.pagesuite-professional.co.uk/html5/reader/production/default.aspx?pubname=&edid=f649bfae-9241-4a4e-861a-27ec49073e87
Newton-Hughes A, & Strudwick R (2019) Values-Based Practice in Radiography – Poster Presentation.
P186.
Strudwick R M (2019) The Role of the Practice Educator in Radiography – poster presentation.
The National Association of Educators in Practice Conference 2018, Adapting Practice Education for Learners of the Future.
10th May 2019.
The Studio, Birmingham.
Strudwick R M (2019) Values-based Practice – invited speaker.
46th Annual Spring Meeting of the British Nuclear Medicine Society, 1st-3rd April 2019, The King’s Centre, Oxford
Hadwen H C & Strudwick R M (2018) Interprofessional Team Working and Planning for the Future – poster presentation.
Achieving Excellence in Radiography Education and Research 2018, 30th November – 1st December 2018.
The Queens Hotel, Leeds.
Strudwick R & Newton-Hughes A (2018) Values in Radiography Education:  Recruitment and Training.
Farrell-Savage R C & Strudwick R M (2018) HCPC Standards of Proficiency for Radiographers and the NHS Constitution:  A Mapping Exercise.
Strudwick R, Newton-Hughes A, Gibson S, Harris J, Gradwell M, Hyde E, Harvey-Lloyd J, O’Regan T & Hendry J (2018) Values-Based Practice (VBP) Training for Radiographers.
Strudwick R (2018) Storytelling in Staff Rooms – which radiographer can tell the best story?
Storytelling Conference 2018, 10th & 11th July.
O’Regan T, Robinson L, Newton-Hughes A & Strudwick R (2018) An account of silences in radiography:  A cultural quilt stitched together with the threads of social defences – Poster Presentation.
BJR Congress series.
Proceedings of the UK Radiological Congress 2018.
P226.
Strudwick R, Newton-Hughes A, Gibson S, Harris J, Gradwell M, Hyde E, Harvey-Lloyd J, O’Regan T & Hendry J (2018) Values-Based Practice (VBP) Training for Radiographers – Poster Presentation.
P209.
Strudwick R M (2018) Values-based radiography.
Compassionate Care in Radiography Study Day, 22nd May 2018, Jury’s Inn, Birmingham.
The National Association of Educators in Practice Conference 2018, Learning in Practice: a critical perspective.
20th April 2018.
Strudwick R, Hadwen H, Butler J & Henry K (2018) Students Initiating Service Improvements – Poster Presentation.
Hyde E & Strudwick R (2017) An Investigation into First Year Diagnostic Radiography Students’ Preparedness to deal with Ill Service Users in two UK Universities.
Proceedings of the UK Radiological Congress 2017.
Hyde E & Strudwick R (2017) An Investigation into First Year Diagnostic Radiography Students’ Preparedness to deal with Ill Service Users in two UK Universities – Poster Presentation.
The National Association of Educators in Practice Conference 2017, Making the case for Practice Education.
21st April 2017.
Strudwick R & Harvey-Lloyd J (2017) Incorporating Service User Feedback into Practice Placement Assessments for Student Radiographers.
Rabaha D P H, Hadwen H & Strudwick R (2016) The Radiographic Anatomical Phantom (RAP) as a Tool for Radiographic Positioning Training:  The Perspective of Students – Poster Presentation.
Achieving Excellence in Radiography Education and Research 2016, 25th-26th November 2016.
Birmingham Conference & Events Centre, Holiday Inn Birmingham.
Hadwen H & Strudwick R (2016) Technology-enhanced Learning in Undergraduate Diagnostic Radiography Education:  Dissect Pro Applications – Poster Presentation.
Strudwick R M & Harvey-Lloyd J M (2016) Innovative Assessment for the Interprofessional Learning (IPL) Working with Others Module – Poster Presentation.
Harvey-Lloyd J M & Strudwick R M (2016) Enhancing the Student Experience with the use of ipads During Simulation Sessions – Poster Presentation.
Strudwick R & Taylor K (2016) An Investigation into Breast Imaging as part of the Undergraduate (UG) Education of Diagnostic Radiography Students in the UK – Poster Presentation.
Hyde E & Strudwick R (2016) An Investigation into First Year Diagnostic Radiography Students’ Preparedness to Deal with Ill People in Two UK Universities.
Taylor K & Strudwick R (2016) Do they know what we do?
Mammography as part of undergraduate radiography training and its potential for influencing the future workforce.
Symposium Mammographicum, 3rd-5th July 2016.
Liverpool.
http://www.birpublications.org/doi/book/10.1259/conf-symp.2016
Harvey-Lloyd J M & Strudwick R M (2016) Enhancing the Student Experience with the use of ipads During Simulation Sessions.
Proceedings of the UK Radiological Congress 2016: P266.
Strudwick R M & Black P (2016) Service User Feedback in Practice.
Proceedings of the UK Radiological Congress 2016: P264.
Strudwick R M & Taylor K (2016) An Investigation into Breast Imaging as part of the Undergraduate (UG) Education of Diagnostic Radiography Students in the UK.
Proceedings of the UK Radiological Congress 2016: P255.
Strudwick R M (2016) Role Modelling in Diagnostic Radiography.
Proceedings of the UK Radiological Congress 2016: P250.
Strudwick R M & Harvey-Lloyd J M (2016) Interprofessional Learning (IPL) Working With Others Module Assessment.
Proceedings of the UK Radiological Congress 2016: P242.
Strudwick R (2016) Role modelling in Diagnostic Radiography – Poster Presentation.
The National Association of Educators in Practice Conference 2016, Identity and Practice: Responses to future needs.
15th April 2016.
Coventry University.
Strudwick R, Harvey-Lloyd J & Hadwen H (2016) The role of interprofessional learning in developing transformative health professionals – Poster Presentation.
Hadwen H, Strudwick R & Harvey-Lloyd J (2016) From selection to registration, and beyond:  Supporting the student diagnostic radiographer in becoming a compassionate professional – Poster Presentation.
Harvey-Lloyd J M & Strudwick R M (2015) Utilising peer assessment to prepare student radiographers for teaching and assessing roles in practice.
Proceedings of the UK Radiological Congress 2015.
Jones V & Strudwick R (2015) A systematic literature review of the role of imaging in the diagnosis of aseptic loosening of knee prostheses.
Harvey-Lloyd J M & Strudwick R M (2015) Enhancing reflective practice in student radiographers with the use of theme boards.
Proceedings of the UK Radiological Congress 2015: P165.
Strudwick R & Harvey-Lloyd J (2015) Interprofessional Interactions study.
The National Association of Educators in Practice Conference 2015, Preparing Students for Safe, Effective and Person-Centred Practice.
27th March 2015.
Strudwick R & Harvey-Lloyd J (2015) Developing patient-centred skills in radiography.
Strudwick R & Black P (2014) Service user feedback to students in practice.
Achieving Excellence in Radiography Education and Research 2014, 21st-22nd November 2014.
Thistle Bristol City Centre, The Grand.
Strudwick R (2014) Conducting observational studies.
Harvey-Lloyd J & Strudwick R (2014) ‘Preparation for practice’ – applying for a fictitious job.
Strudwick R & Harvey-Lloyd JM (2014).
Using service users in the diagnostic radiography curriculum.
Proceedings of the UK Radiological Congress 2014: e-085.
Harvey-Lloyd JM, Rugg H, Day J & Strudwick R (2014).
Reflections on professional identity and shared values amongst health and social care students.
Proceedings of the UK Radiological Congress 2014: e-084.
Feasibility study of Continuing Professional Development (CPD) Workshops in Practice.
Proceedings of the UK Radiological Congress 2014: e-083.
Strudwick R & Harvey-Lloyd J (2014) A pilot study of service user feedback to student radiographers in practice – Poster presentation.
The National Association of Educators in Practice Conference 2014, Calm waters and stormy seas.
11th April 2014.
Harvey-Lloyd J, Rugg H, Day J & Strudwick R (2014) Professional identity and shared values across health and social care students – Poster presentation.
Harvey-Lloyd J & Strudwick R (2014) Using theme boarding to explore student experiences of practice learning.
Harvey-Lloyd J & Strudwick R (2014) Utilising peer assessment to prepare student radiographers for teaching and assessing roles in practice.
Other conferences:
Strudwick R M (2024) #Hello my name is Ruth – Radiographer to Professor.
SoR Eastern Region Study Day, University of Suffolk, 14 th September 2024.
Strudwick R M (2024) Values based practice in education – Making a difference.
Practice Educator Study Day, East of England Imaging Academy, Norwich, 13th August 2024.
Strudwick R M (2024) Making a difference.
Coaching study day two, East of England Imaging Academy, Norwich, 19th July 2024.
Underdown, E.
Strudwick, R & Harvey-Lloyd (2024) Preliminary Findings from Phase one interviews on mammographers’ experiences during Covid-19 - Poster presentation.
University of Suffolk Research Colloquium, 3rd July 2024.
Strudwick R (2024) Making a difference – inaugural professorial lecture.
University of Suffolk, 1 st February 2024.
Strudwick R (2023) Preparing your HCPC Portfolio – All you need to know.
SoR Eastern Region Study Day, West Suffolk Hospital, 11 th November 2023.
Strudwick R (2023) Establishing a Core Integrated Care Curriculum.
Poster Presentation.
Together for Transformation: Research for Changing World, University of Suffolk, 24th May 2023
Strudwick R (2022) The Debenham Project: Evaluating the Provision, Availability, Cost, and Quality of Health and Social Care for Older People in a Rural Community.
Research & Knowledge Exchange Conference, University of Suffolk, 30 th June 2022.
Strudwick R (2020) Values Based Practice in Radiography – two seminars.
The Churchill Hospital, Oxford.
13th January 2020,
Strudwick R (2019) Values Based Practice.
Society of Radiographers, Eastern Region AGM and Study Day, 9th November 2019, West Suffolk Hospital.
Rabaha D P H, Hadwen H & Strudwick R (2019) The Radiographic Anatomical Phantom (RAP) as a Tool for Radiographic Positioning Training:  The Perspective of Students – Poster Presentation.
Council for Allied Health Professions Research (CAHPR) East Anglia One Day Conference 2019, 18 May.
Keystone Innovation Centre, Thetford.
Strudwick R M (2018) Interprofessional Learning: What is it all about?
Celebration of Learning Day, The Ipswich Hospital NHS Trust, 2nd May 2018.
Newton-Hughes A & Strudwick R (2017) An Exploration of Values Based Radiography from the perspective of the service user, radiographer and radiology manager.
CAHPR East Anglia meeting, 30th November 2017.
Strudwick R M (2017) Interprofessional Learning in Practice.
Nurse Mentor & Practice Educator – Development Event, 18th September 2017.
Clements H, Vince C, Harvey-Lloyd J & Strudwick R (2017) Developing Resilience and Self-Efficacy – Poster presentation.
UoS Learning & Teaching Day.
15th May 2017.
Strudwick R (2017) Role Modelling in Diagnostic Radiography – Poster presentation.
Strudwick R M & Taylor K (2016) Addenbrooke’s and UCS working in collaboration on an externally funded project.
UCS Research & Scholarly Activity Day: Research & Community Engagement, 22nd June 2016.
Harvey-Lloyd J & Strudwick R (2016) Enhancing the Student Experience with the use of ipads During Simulation Sessions – Poster Presentation.
UEA Teaching and Learning Day.
5th May 2016.
University of East Anglia.
Strudwick R, Pickering S & Lewis K (2016) Effective Interprofessional Education; An Innovative Approach to Delivering Collaborative Working – Poster Presentation.
Strudwick R & Harvey-Lloyd J (2016) IPL Working With Others.
Strudwick R & Harvey-Lloyd J (2015) Interprofessional Learning (IPL) Working With Others Module Assessment – Poster Presentation.
UCS Learning & Teaching 16th December Day 2015.
Hughes H, Lewis K, Pickering S & Strudwick R (2015) Effective Interprofessional Education; an innovative approach to delivering collaborative working – Poster Presentation.
UCS Learning & Teaching Day 16th December 2015.
Hadwen H, Strudwick R, Cox W & Heatley D (2015) Teaching, Learning and Assessment in Undergraduate Diagnostic Radiography Education: Disect Pro Applications – Poster Presentation.
Strudwick R (2015) Role Modelling in Diagnostic Radiography – Poster presentation.
7th May 2015.
Strudwick R & Harvey-Lloyd J (2015) Evaluation of Evening Simulation Sessions.
Strudwick R & Harvey-Lloyd J (2014) Interprofessional Interactions Study – Poster presentation.
University Campus Suffolk Annual Research Colloquium, 25th June 2014.
Strudwick R (2014) Follow-up to Professional Doctorate Study.
Harvey-Lloyd J & Strudwick R (2014) Utilising Peer Assessment to Prepare Radiographers for Teaching and Assessing Role.
UCS Teaching and Learning Day.
13th June 2014.
Harvey-Lloyd J & Strudwick R (2014) Utilising peer assessment in radiography.
8th May 2014.
Strudwick R (2014) Characterising the role of the Advanced Practice Diagnostic Radiographer:  Doctorate Findings.
Eastern Region SoR Clinical Reporting SIG meeting.
15th April 2014.
The Ipswich Hospital NHS Trust
Ruth's other commitments including being the chair of the Association of Radiography Educators, chair of the Approval & Accreditation Board of the College of Radiographers and an accredited assessor for the College of Radiographers, Chair of the CoRIPS grant funding awards panel, an External Examiner for The University of Hertfordshire, Chair of the East Anglia Regional CAHPR Hub, and reviewer for six international journals; ‘Disability & Rehabilitation’, ‘Journal of Practice Teaching & Learning’, 'Journal of Organisational Ethnography', ‘Journal of Social Science & Allied Health Professions’, ‘British Journal of Radiology’ and ‘Radiography’.
Principal Fellow Advanced HE.
Fellow of the College of Radiographers (CoR).
Member of Society of Radiographers (SoR).
Registered with the Health and Care Professionals Council (HCPC).

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/get-in-touch/people-directory/school-of-health-sciences-and-society/professor-paula-kersten:
As Dean of Health, Sciences and Society, I lead a School which provides educational programmes in sport sciences, life sciences and allied health professions.
Our programmes provide lots of opportunities for our students to gain hands on practice skills experience in our state-of-the-art simulation, sports and science labs.
Our staff are enthusiastic about their subjects and dedicated to promoting a collegial, student-centred atmosphere and positive student learning experience.
I am an active member of a range of external strategic and lobby groups, ensuring our voices are heard and we contribute to regional, national and international agendas.
My professional background is in physiotherapy, which I completed in the Netherlands.
I undertook my MSc Rehabilitation and PhD at the University of Southampton.
I achieved promotion to Professor in Rehabilitation in 2014 and Senior Fellowship status of Advance HE in 2021.
Prior to joining the University of Suffolk in September 2024, I was Pro Vice-Chancellor and Dean of the Faculty of Medicine, Health and Social Care at Canterbury Christ Church University (2021-23), and Dean of the School of Sport and Health Sciences at the University of Brighton (2015-2021).
I have also held positions at Auckland University of Technology (New Zealand) and the University of Southampton.
As an academic for over 25 years, I have provided leadership to a wide range of nursing, allied health and sport programmes.
I am passionate about evidence-informed curricula and teaching, widening participation and diversification of entry routes into universities such as apprenticeships.
Equality, diversity and inclusion is central to my work in ensuring excellent student and staff experiences and belonging to the University.
My research focuses on measuring outcomes of care and new ways of working in rehabilitation.
I have attracted funding from British and New Zealand (NZ) competitive streams and university investment sources.
I have also provided consultancy, for example to the NZ Accident Compensation Corporation (ACC), the NZ Ministry of Social Development and local healthcare providers.
Recent research projects (with collaborators and/or students) include investigations into: first contact physiotherapy, peer mentoring after traumatic brain injury, multiple sclerosis fatigue intervention, outcomes after major traumatic injuries, goal setting in rehabilitation, developing clinical expertise in musculoskeletal physiotherapy, predicting recurrent instability of the shoulder, and community integration.
I have published over 100 peer reviewed papers.
For recent publications please refer to my Google Scholar , ResearchGate or OARS profile
My experience in providing consultancy includes projects for the New Zealand (NZ) Accident Compensation Corporation (ACC), the NZ Ministry of Social Development and local healthcare providers.
I can provide consultancy in areas of healthcare, rehabilitation, outcome measurement and education.
Over the years, I have worked in the UK, Germany, the Netherlands and New Zealand.
I am a research collaborator with teams in a number of countries (e.g.
Auckland University of Technology), review grant applications and research publications, have supervised international students and examined doctoral thesis for universities in a range of countries.
In 2018 I was appointed as an external expert reviewer on New Zealand’s (NZ) PBRF Quality Evaluation Panel (akin to Research Excellence Framework in the UK), reviewing portfolios of health researchers based in NZ.
Member Council of Deans of Health
Senior Fellow Advance HE

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/professor-sarah-corrie:
Sarah is a highly experienced clinical psychologist, cognitive behaviour therapist and coaching psychologist.
She has worked in clinical and psychotherapeutic practice for 30 years across a range of health care settings.
She began her career as a clinical psychologist working in a variety of NHS service settings before extending her skills into practitioner education.
She has worked in higher education for over 20 years, designing and delivering a wide range of pre- and post-qualification courses in the psychological and psychotherapeutic professions.
She works nationally and internationally as a trainer, supervisor and consultant in the fields of applied psychology, mental health, cognitive behaviour therapy and coaching.
Her work as a cognitive behaviour therapy scholar is extensive and spans innovations in practice, training and supervision.
Sarah was awarded a First Class BSc (Hons) in Psychology and Counselling Psychology, at the University of Surrey (1993).
Her first Doctorate in Clinical Psychology was completed with the South Thames (Salomons) Clinical Psychology Training Scheme, degree awarded by The Open University (1997).
She subsequently completed a Post Graduate Diploma in Cognitive Therapy at Oxford University (2000).
After a break in formal studies, Sarah completed a Doctorate in Psychotherapy by Public Works with Metanoia and Middlesex University (2020) entitled, Equipping Cognitive Behavioural Therapists for a Complex Professional World: In Search of a Framework for Training and Supervision .
Most recently she completed a Master Coach Programme with the Professional Development Foundation for which she was awarded a Distinction (2023).
Sarah has over 20 years of experience delivering teaching and professional training in higher education.
Her areas of particular interest relate to the learning and development needs of professionals in an increasingly complex social, political and economic climate.
This includes how professionals make decisions in situations of complexity, the use of formulation to inform intervention planning, the role of supervision in enhancing practice and how to foster and facilitate lifelong learning in the workforce.
Selected publications (see ORCHID ID: 0000-0002-0744-2122 for a full listing)
Corrie, S., & Lane, D.A.
First Steps in Cognitive Behaviour Therapy.
Baucom, D.
H., Fischer, M.
S., Corrie, S., Worrell, M.
& Boeding, S.
Treating Relationship Distress and Psychopathology in Couples: A Cognitive-Behavioural Approach.
Abingdon, Oxfordshire: Routledge.
Lane, D.A., Watts, M.
& Corrie, S.
(Eds) (2016).
Supervision in the Psychological Professions: Building your own Personalised Model.
Maidenhead, Berkshire: Open University Press.
Corrie, S., Townend, M.J.
& Cockx, A.
Assessment and Case Formulation in Cognitive Behavioural Therapy, 2nd Ed.
Corrie, S.
& Lane, D.A.
(2015).
CBT Supervision.
Lane, D.A.
(2012).
Making Effective Decisions in Counselling and Psychotherapy: A Practical Guide.
(2010).
Constructing Stories, Telling Tales: A Guide to Formulation in Applied Psychology.
London: Karnac.
(2009).
The Art of Inspired Living.
Coach Yourself with Positive Psychology.
(2006).
The Modern Scientist-Practitioner.
A Guide to Practice in Psychology.
Hove, East Sussex: Routledge.
Book chapters Lane, D.A.
What might be an evidence base for coaching - ethical issues.
In W-A.
Smith, J.
Passmore, E.
Turner, Y-L.
Lai, & D.
Clutterbuck.
The Ethical Coaches Handbook, pp.
82-100.
London: Routledge.
Searching for shades of grey: modifying polarised thinking with continuum methods.
Tee & J.
Passmore (Eds).
Coaching Practiced, pp.
223-232.
Chichester, West Sussex: Wiley.
The scientist-practitioner model as a framework for coaching psychology.
55-64.
Developing coaching through research.
In M.
Watts & I.
Florance (Eds).
Emerging Conversations in Coaching, pp.
42-59.
& Parsons, A.
The contribution of coaching to mental health care: An emerging specialism for complex times.
60-77.
Corrie, S., Kovacs, L.C.
Beyond the first session: Models of coaching, including formulation.
Watts, R.
Bor & I.
The Trainee Coach Handbook, pp.
89-108.
Understanding, engaging with and generating research.
161-181.
Does coaching psychology need the concept of formulation?
In J.
Passmore & D.
Tee (Eds).
Coaching Researched, pp.
97-114.
London: Wiley.
Student fitness to practice procedures on accredited and regulatory programmes: a narrative review of the literature.
Practice: Contemporary Issues in Practitioner Education.
https://doi.org/10.1080/25783858.2023.2265291
Ball, C.
“Bridging the Gap:” A reflexive thematic analysis of the experiences of therapy trainees transitioning from psychodynamic counselling to cognitive behavioural therapy.
Counselling and Psychotherapy Research.
00:1–11.
http://doi.org/10.1002/capr.12700
& Kovacs, L.
Developing our knowledge for complex times: The contribution of critical realism to coaching.
International Journal of Evidence Based Coaching and Mentoring, 12(2), 63-73.
DOI: 10.24384/5zze-jt80
Boakye, N., Taylor, K.M.
Behavioral Couples Therapy for Brain Injury: Single Case Methodology with Bi-Phasic Design.
Brain Injury.
DOI: 10.1080/02699052.2022.2145367
Does coaching need the concept of antifragility?
The Coaching Psychologist, 17(2), 7-17.
https://doi.org/10.53841/bpstcp.2021.17.2.7
Addressing the self-care needs of coaches through the use of formulation.
Coaching: An International Journal of Theory, Research & Practice.
DOI:10.1080/17521882.2021.1926523
Kovacs, L.
Formulation as a foundation for navigating complexity in executive coaching.
Consulting Psychology Journal: Practice and Research, 73(3), 271-288.
https://doi.org/10.1037/cpb0000202 Cosgrove, F., Corrie, S.
& Wolever, R.
An exploration of reported personal benefits experienced by graduates of a Health and Wellness Coach Training Programme.
DOI: 10.1080/17521882.2021.189.
Cosgrove, F.
Promoting well-being through the emerging specialism of health and wellness coaching.
The Coaching Psychologist, 16(2), 35-45.
https://doi.org/10.53841/bpstcp.2020.16.2.35 Rudolf von Rohr, I., Corrie, S., Fischer, M.
S., Baucom, D.H., Worrell, M.
& Pote, H.
Behavioural couple therapy: measuring therapist competence.
The Cognitive Behaviour Therapist, 13, e29, 1-14.
doi:10.1017/S1754470X20000276
The functions of formulation in coaching psychology.
The Coaching Psychologist 15(1), 66-75.
The Coaching Psychologist, 14(2), 90-97.
Undertaking a professional doctorate: a personal account of navigating the evolving post-graduate landscape.
The Quarterly, 107, 30-38.
S., Worrell, M., Corrie, S., Belus, J.
M., Molyva, E.
Couple-based intervention for depression: An effectiveness study in the National Health Service in England.
Family Process, 57 (2), 275-292.
doi: 10.1111/famp.12332.
Kovacs, L.C.
Executive coaching in an era of complexity.
Study 1.
Does executive coaching work and if so how?
A realist evaluation.
International Coaching Psychology Review, 12(2), 74-89.
Study 2.
Applying formulation to coaching: A description of the PAIR framework.
International Coaching Psychology Review, 12(2), 90-100.
Sarah is a Chartered Psychologist and Chartered Scientist (British Psychological Society), Consultant Clinical Psychologist, Registered Practitioner Psychologist (HCPC) and an Accredited Therapist, Supervisor and Trainer with the British Association for Behavioural & Cognitive Psychotherapies.
She is also a registered Coaching Psychologist with the British Psychological Society and a Certified Professional Executive Coach with the Association for Professional Executive Coaching and Supervision (APECS).
Sarah has served on a number of professional bodies.
She is a former Chair of the Course Accreditation Committee of the British Association for Behavioural & Cognitive Psychotherapies, the lead organisation for CBT in the UK and Ireland and continues to serve on this committee.
She was also a Founding Member and former Chair of the British Psychological Society’s Special Group in Coaching Psychology (now Division of Coaching Psychology).
In 2016, Sarah was the recipient of the British Psychological Society’s Achievement Award for Distinguished Contributions to Coaching Psychology and in 2017 was awarded a Fellowship of the British Association for Behavioural & Cognitive Psychotherapies in recognition of her contribution to CBT in the areas of supervision and training.
Sarah is also a Visiting Professor at Middlesex University.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/dr-marco-beato:
Marco is an Associate Professor in Sport and Exercise Science (BSc, MSc, PhD, CSCS, SFHEA) and theme Lead for Physical Activity and Sport, Institute of Health and Wellbeing with an international reputation who plays a very active role as a supervisor in the PhD Programme in Sport and Exercise Science at the University of Suffolk.
Marco is an Associate Editor of The Journal of Strength & Conditioning Research (USA) and a Member of the Reviewing Panel of the European College of Sport Science (Germany) as well as a Reviewer for some of the most prestigious journals in Sport and Exercise Science.
Marco has a particular interest in strength and conditioning, GPS technology, and elite football performance.
He has published over 120 scientific publications in international journals as well as has written several chapters of Sport Science books.
Additionally, he leads an international research network that includes leading research companies and top-ranking universities in the UK and abroad.
Marco has been collaborating (since the season 2009/10) with sports science and strength and conditioning departments in several professional football clubs in England (e.g., Premier League) and Italy (Serie A).
Currently, he provides sport science and research consultancy for some professional football clubs and international sport-based companies specialising in GPS monitoring, flywheel training, strength and conditioning.
Marco is the sponsor for the recognition of the Undergraduate Strength and Conditioning Programme at the University of Suffolk through the NSCA Education Recognition Program (USA), he is the Coordinator of the PhD programme in Sport and Exercise Science (since 2021).
Marco was Course Leader BSc Strength & Conditioning (from 2018 to 2022) and Course Leader BSc Sports Coaching (from 2016 to 2019).
Marco is the Theme Lead for Physical Activity and Sport – REF 2027, Institute of Health and Wellbeing Research.
Marco is an Associate Editor of The Journal of Strength & Conditioning Research (USA) and a Member of the Reviewing Panel of the European College of Sport Science (Germany) as well as a reviewer for some of the most prestigious Journals in Sport and Exercise Science.
Beato M, Datson N, Anderson L, Brownlee T, Coates A, Hulton A.
Rationale, tips, and practical recommendations for testing protocols in female soccer: a narrative review.
Journal of Strength & Conditioning Research 2023 [Epub ahead of print]
Bishop C, De Keijzer KL, Turner AN, Beato M.
Measuring inter-limb asymmetry for strength and power: A brief review of assessment methods, data analysis, current evidence, and practical recommendations.
Journal of Strength & Conditioning Research.
2022 [Epub ahead of print]
Dello Iacono A, McLaren SJ, W.
Macpherson TW, Beato M, Weston M, Unnithan V and Shushan T.
Quantifying exposure and intra-individual reliability of high-speed and sprint running during sided-games training in soccer players: a systematic review and meta-analysis.
Keijzer KL, Raya-Gonzalez J, Beato M.
The effect of flywheel training on strength and physical capacities in sporting and healthy populations: an umbrella review.
PLOSone.
Silva H, Nakamura FH, Beato M, and Marcelino R.
Acceleration and deceleration demands during training sessions in football: a systematic review.
Science and Medicine in Football.
Connor M, Mernagh D, Beato M.
Quantifying and modeling the game speed outputs of English Championship soccer players.
Research in Sports Medicine.
2021 [Epub ahead of print]
Beato M, Maroto-Izquierdo S, Turner AN, Bishop C.
Implementing strength training strategies for injury prevention in soccer: Scientific rationale and methodological recommendations.
International Journal of Sports Physiology and Performance.
Beato M and Dello Iacono A.
Implementing flywheel (isoinertial) exercise in strength training: current evidence, practical recommendations and future directions.
Frontiers in physiology.
2020, 3;11:569.
Gualtieri A, Rampinini E, Sassi R, Beato M.
Workload monitoring in top-level soccer players during congested fixture periods.
2020, 41(10):677-681.
Beato M, De Keijze K, Carty B, Connor M.
Monitoring fatigue during an intermittent exercise with accelerometer derived metrics.
2019, 10:780.
Young D, Coratella G, Malone S, Collins K, Mourot L, Beato M.
The match-play sprint performance of elite senior hurlers during competitive games.
2019, 4(4):e0215156
Beato M, Devereux G, Stiff A.
Validity and reliability of global positioning systems units (STATSports Viper) for measuring distance and peak speed in sports.
2018, 32(10):2831-2837
Beato M, Bianchi M, Coratella G, Merlini M, Drust B.
Effects of plyometric and directional training on speed and jump performance in elite youth soccer players.
Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research.
2018, 32 (2):289-296
Beato M, Jamil M, Devereux G.
Reliability of internal and external load parameters in recreational football (soccer) for health.
2018, 24:1-7
Beato M, Coratella G, Schena F, Impellizzeri FM.
Effects of recreational football performed once a week (1 hour per 12 weeks) on cardiovascular risk factors in middle-aged sedentary men.
2017, 1: 171-177
Beato M, Coratella G, Schena F, Hulton AT.
Evaluation of the external and internal workload in female futsal players.
2017, 34:227-231
Christopher J, Beato M, Hulton A.
Manipulation of exercise to rest ratio within set duration on physical and technical outcomes during small-sided games in elite youth soccer players.
Human Movement Science.
2016;48:1-6.
Beato M, Coratella G, Schena F.
Quantification of energy expenditure of recreational football Journal of Sports Sciences.
2016, 28:1-4
Zamparo P, Bolomini F, Nardello F, Beato M.
Energetics (and kinematics) of short shuttle runs.
2015; 115:1985-1994.
Zamparo P, Zadro I, Lazzer S, Beato M, Sepulcri L.
Energetics of Shuttle Runs: The Effects of Distance and Change of Direction.
2014; 9:1033-1039.
Marco has been collaborating (since the season 2009/10) with sports science and strength and conditioning departments in several professional football clubs in Italy (Serie A) and England.
Currently, he provides sport science consultancy for some professional football clubs and international sport based companies specialising in GPS monitoring, flywheel training, strength and conditioning.
Marco has a very high record of income from collaborative projects between universities and companies in the sports science sector.
Marco leads an international research network that includes leading research companies and top-ranking universities in the UK and abroad.
Marco acquired his Bachelor and Master degrees (First Class) in Sport and Exercise Science at the University of Verona (Italy).
He completed his PhD in Sport and Exercise Science in the Department of Neurological and Movement Sciences at the University of Verona in 2016.
Marco has been a Senior Fellow of The Higher Education Academy since 2018 and UK Council for Graduate Education (UKCGE) Recognised Research Supervisor.
Through his applied professional experience, Marco has acquired several internationally recognised certifications, including CSCS (NSCA, USA), Medical Statistics Certificate (University of Stanford, USA), Fitness Coach Pro License (FIGC, Italy), Football Coach UEFA B License (FIGC, Italy), and SICS Video Analysis License (Italy).

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/sam-chenery-morris:
Since 2006, she has held positions including Lecturer, Senior Lecturer, Course Leader, Associate Professor, Associate Dean, and Dean.
Sam has contributed to senior leadership since 2019 and has extensive experience in strategic planning, portfolio development, student experience and success and research.
With a career spanning 30 years and academic study from levels 4 to 8, Dr Chenery-Morris earned her PhD in Education in 2017 and became an Advance HE Senior Fellow in 2016.
Her research utilises qualitative methods such as case studies, discourse, hermeneutic and textual analysis, focusing on higher education, student experience, assessment, the female workforce, intersectionality, social justice, power, ethnicity, gender, and sexuality.
Dr Chenery-Morris has eighteen years of experience, having taught all areas of the midwifery curriculum, School-level curriculum development and has been the Associate Dean for Learning, Teaching and Student Experience.
As Associate Dean for Learning, Teaching and Student Experience, Sam led the School of Health and Sports Sciences to ensure high quality evidence informed inclusive teaching.
Working with the Director of Learning and Teaching and CELT members to develop and implement cross University institutional and strategic priorities.
This included a new learning pedagogy, Block and Blend, which was introduced for Level 4 students in 2021.
This was rolled out across our provision for 2022-23.
This pedagogy combines face to face teaching, seminars and simulation with synchronous interactive virtual classrooms and asynchronous directed online learning activities and moves the curriculum from concurrent modules to students focussing on one at a time, where possible.
Sam contributed to the delivery of Post Graduate Certificate of Academic Practice and the development of a wider academic staff offer, including mentoring for the PASSPoRT and observing staff teaching.
Previously, she led on the development and validation of the nursing and midwifery curricula at the University of Suffolk.
This includes three-year BSc (Hons) Adult, Children’s and Mental Health Nursing and apprenticeship routes for Adult Nursing and Mental Health Nursing and two BSc (Hons) Midwifery courses.
She has also taught all areas of the midwifery curriculum.
Sam has worked as an External Examiner at other universities (De Montfort, Middlesex, and Nottingham) and currently Ulster.
She is currently supervising three PhD students and a range of undergraduate nursing student dissertations.
Sam has made substantial contributions to the advancements of midwifery education knowledge, specifically related to student’s learning and assessment in clinical practice, starting with her master’s dissertation which critiqued the Nursing and Midwifery Council policy (NMC 2009) which introduced mandatory grading of clinical practice for student midwives using discourse analysis (Chenery-Morris 2010; 2011) and has culminated in a sole authored monograph published in December 2020: Grading Student Midwives’ Practice: A case study exploring relationships, identity and authority by Routledge in their series Routledge Research in Nursing and Midwifery.
Sam was invited to work with a small group of Lead Midwives for Education on a three-phased national grading project which commenced in 2013.
Outputs from this research include two national reports and a project website with open access resources for educators https://www.plymouth.ac.uk/research/national-grading-of-practice-in-pre-registration-midwifery-project .
Findings from this project have been disseminated at national and international conferences and the resources have also been evaluated involving midwifery academics, clinicians, and students at Plymouth University (publication in progress).
Sam was an academic midwife on NICE Antenatal Care Guideline development committee from 2018-2021.
This substantial evidence-based guideline will shape the care of circa 700,000 pregnant women in England annually.
https://www.nice.org.uk/guidance/ng201/chapter/Recommendations
Lately Sam has been leading on two funded projects researching inclusive practices in menopause support within the East of England's health and social care sectors.
Research Papers
Chenery-Morris, S and Divers, J (2024a) Midwifery higher education – who are we and who do we teach?
British Journal of Midwifery, 32 (1).
ISSN 0969-4900
Divers, J and Chenery-Morris, S (2024b) The gender debate: is midwifery education ‘women’s work’?
British Journal of Midwifery, 32 (4).
pp.
202-207.
Chenery-Morris, S and Divers, J (2024c) The diversity debate: Is midwifery higher education addressing the challenges of systemic racism?
British Journal of Midwifery, 32 (7).
Divers, J and Chenery-Morris, S (2024d) The pay & conditions debate: what is the reality of the working environment in midwifery higher education?
British Journal of Midwifery, 32 (9).
Divers, J and Chenery-Morris, S (2024e) The practice debate: are midwifery educators and midwives in practice working together to support the education of the future workforce?
British Journal of Midwifery.
Chenery-Morris, S and Divers, J (in press) Is the midwifery profession academic enough?
The Exploring Food Guidance series comprises six-articles examining how evidence has informed the guideline and revealing where guidance is lacking or conflicting and suggesting how this might influence practice.
Divers, J and Chenery-Morris, S (in press-July 2022) Food supplementation in pregnancy: advice, physiology, and evidence.
The Practising Midwife.
25 (7), TBD
Divers, J and Chenery-Morris, S (in press-May 2022) Alcohol in pregnancy and beyond: advice, physiology, and evidence.
25 (5), TBD
Divers, J and Chenery-Morris, S (2022) Eggs in pregnancy: advice, physiology, and evidence.
25 (3), 26-30
Divers, J and Chenery-Morris, S (2022) Meat and Fish in pregnancy: advice, physiology, and evidence.
The Practising Midwife.25 (1), 24-29
Divers, J and Chenery-Morris, S (2021) Dairy in pregnancy and beyond: advice, physiology, and evidence.
24 (10), 26-30
Divers, J and Chenery-Morris, S (2021) Caffeine Consumption: advise, physiology and evidence, The Practising Midwife, 24 (8) p25-29
The Understanding Research Series comprises of 11 articles published bi-monthly from 2019 until 2021 in The Practising Midwife.
Baker, B.
and Chenery-Morris, S.
(2021) Understanding Research 11: Critiquing the literature and disseminating your findings, The Practising Midwife, 24 (6) p24-28
(2021) Understanding Research 10: Analysing qualitative and quantitative data, The Practising Midwife, 24 (4) p26-31
(2021) Understanding Research 9: Methods of data collection in quantitative methodologies: documentary methods and clinical measurements, The Practising Midwife, 24 (1) p24-28
(2020) Understanding Research 8: Methods of data collection in qualitative methodologies: observation, Interviews and focus groups.
The Practising Midwife, 23 (11) p21-26
(2020) Understanding Research 7: Quantitative methodologies: the ubiquitous survey, exploring descriptive and inferential statistics The Practising Midwife 23 (9) p26-30
(2020) Understanding Research 6: Quantitative methodologies: explaining experimental methods and non-experimental design, The Practising Midwife, 23 (7) 24-28
Baker, B.
(2020) Understanding Research 5.
Qualitative methodologies continued: exploring ethnography, case study, action research and the more generic qualitative approach.
The Practising Midwife 23 (5) p24-28
Baker, B and Chenery-Morris, S., (2020) Understanding Research Series: 4 Qualitative research methodologies: nuances between phenomenology, grounded theory and narrative research.
The Practising Midwife, 23 (3) p26-30
Baker, B and Chenery-Morris, S., (2019) Understanding Research Series: 3 Quantitative and Qualitative paradigms, principles and sampling.
The Practising Midwife 22, 10, 26-29
Baker, B and Chenery-Morris, S., (2019) Understanding Research Series: 2 Theoretical and Conceptual Frameworks and their application to midwifery knowledge and research, The Practising Midwife, 22, (8), 26-29
Baker, B and Chenery-Morris, S., (2019) Understanding Research Series: 1 Philosophy in Midwifery, The Practising Midwife, 22 (6) 26-30
Chenery-Morris S (2020) Grading students’ practice: case study and discussion, MIDIRS Midwifery Digest.
30(1):20–26, 2020
Way, S., Fisher, M.
and Chenery-Morris, S., (2019).
An evidence-based toolkit to support grading of pre-registration midwifery practice.
British Journal of Midwifery, 27(4), p251-257 https://doi.org/10.12968/bjom.2019.27.4.251
*Fisher, M., Bower, H., Chenery-Morris, S., Galloway, F., Jackson, J., Way, S., Fisher, M.M., (2019).
National Survey: Developing a Common Approach to Grading of Practice in Pre-registration Midwifery.
Nurse Education in Practice , 34 (January), p150-160 https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nepr.2018.11.014
*Fisher, M., Way, S., Chenery-Morris, S., Jackson, J.
and Bower, H., (2017b).
Core principles to reduce current variations that exist in grading of Midwifery practice in the United Kingdom.
Nurse Education in Practice.
3 (March), p54-60 http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.nepr.2017.02.006
*Fisher, M., Bower, H., Chenery-Morris, S., Jackson, J., Way., (2017a).
A scoping study to explore the application and impact of grading practice in pre-registration Midwifery programmes across the United Kingdom.
Nurse Education in Practice, 24, p99-105 http://doi.org/10.1016/j.nepr.2016.01.007
*Chenery-Morris, S (2015) The importance of continuity of mentorship in pre-registration midwifery education, Evidence Based Midwifery 13 (2): 47-53
*Chenery-Morris, S (2014) Exploring students’ and mentors’ experiences of grading midwifery practice, Evidence Based Midwifery 12 (3):101-106
Passmore, H and Chenery-Morris, S.
(2014) Exploring the value of the tripartite assessment.
Nurse Education in Practice 14 (1); 92-97
Chenery-Morris, S (2012) The students’ perspective of evaluating grading midwifery practice; a World Café model.
MIDIRS Midwifery Digest 22(2): 153-158
Chenery-Morris, S and H.
Passmore (2012) Grading pre-registration midwifery education; a concept analysis, Evidence Based Midwifery 10(2):57-63
Chenery-Morris, S.
(2012) Facilitating a midwifery book club.
The Practising Midwife 15 (3): 30-33
(2011) Using poster presentations in assessment, The Practising Midwife, 14 (7) 20-22
(2011) Top Ten tips for sign-off mentors assessing midwifery students in practice.
Essentially MIDIRS 2(8): 27-31.
(2011) Top Ten tips for writing assignments, Essentially MIDIRS 2(6): 27-31.
Chenery-Morris, S (2011) Constructing methodology: a radical textual analysis, Evidence Based Midwifery 9 (3) 102-106
*Chenery-Morris, S.
(2010) Grading midwifery practice; a discourse analysis.
Evidence Based Midwifery 8(4): 122-127.
National reports
Fisher, M., Bower, H., Chenery-Morris, S., Galloway, F., Jackson, J., Way, S., Fisher, M.M., (2018).
National Grading of Practice in Pre-registration Midwifery Project: Report on final phase on-line survey (Phase 3).
United Kingdom: LME-UK Executive.
[Online], Available: https://www.plymouth.ac.uk/research/national-grading-of-practice-in-pre-registration-midwifery-project
Fisher, M., Bower, H., Chenery-Morris, S., Galloway, F., Jackson, J., Way, S., (2019).
Practice Assessment Toolkit.
National ‘Grading of Practice in Pre-registration Midwifery’ Project.
Books and book chapters:
Chenery-Morris, S (2020) Grading Midwifery Practice: A Case Study Exploring Relationships, Identity and Authority, Routledge, London
Forrest, E (ed) (2019) Midwifery at a Glance, Wiley and Sons Ltd.
(Several single page chapters in this book)
Gribben, M., McLellen, S., McGirr, D and Chenery-Morris, S (2017) How to Survive your Nursing or Midwifery Course, Sage Publications Ltd, London (three of the chapters)
Chenery-Morris, S, Passmore, H and Muscat, H (2015) Contexts of Midwifery , Learning Matters, Sage, London
Chenery-Morris, S and McLean, M (2013) Normal Midwifery Practice , Learning Matters, Exeter
Passmore, H and Chenery-Morris, S (2013) New Beginnings in Taylor, J, Bond, E and Woods M, Eds.
Early Childhood Studies, 3rd edition, Hodder Arnold, London
Chenery-Morris, S and Theodosius, C (2011) Case Study: Lecturer-Student Perspective of Virtual Learning Environment in Cashin, A.
and R.
Cook, Eds.
(2011).
Evidence-Based Practice in Nursing Informatics-Concepts and Applications, IGI Publishing
Goodchild, T.
and S.
Chenery-Morris, (2011) Educational Podcasts at University Campus Suffolk , In Wan N (Ed) Mobile Technologies and Handheld Devices for Ubiquitous Learning: Research and Pedagogy, IGI Publishing, Australia
Chenery-Morris, S and Lynch A (2010) Reproductive System, chapter 16 in Coyne, I, Timmins, F and Neill F Eds.
(2010) Clinical Skills in Children’s Nursing, Oxford University Press, Oxford
Dr Chenery-Morris supported four nursing students and the Dean from the School of Health and Sports’ Sciences on the third international study tour to Japan (February 2019).
The students participated in a Global Leader Training and International Exchange Program for Nursing Students: “Challenges for an ageing society as a global health issue and the role of nurses”.
Organised by Keio University, Tokyo, Japan with students from Korean, China, the US, UK and Japan.
Dr Chenery-Morris attended and presented at the European Midwives Association Conference, held in London in 2016 and in 2014 had two oral presentations at the International Midwives Confederation in Prague.
Advance HE: Senior Fellow
Royal College of Midwives: Member
Higher Education Academy: Fellow
Royal College of Nursing: Member

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/dr-noreen-cushen-brewster-0:
Dr Noreen Cushen-Brewster trained as an Adult Nurse in Ireland, and soon after specialised in oncology.
She has a strong scientific and research background and completed her Professional Doctorate at the University of Essex in 2007.
She has extensive experience in  senior leadership and management nursing roles within health and social care across the UK, Australia and Ireland.
Prior to joining the University of Suffolk in 2020 she was the Executive Director of Quality at East Coast Community Healthcare.
She is currently working as the Associate Dean for Research and Knowledge Exchange and is the theme lead for long term conditions within the Institute of Health & Wellbeing.
Throughout her nursing career, she has worked in close collaboration with other organisations, as a Non-Executive Director, Trustee on Cancer Charity Boards, and in the development and leadership of research programmes.
Although most of Noreen's career was based working within NHS organisations, she is used to working within research and academic environments.
She has been instrumental in the development of various academic research and oncology/chemotherapy programmes.
Noreen's teaching expertise includes:
Noreen's main research interests are within Cancer as well as practice development.
She is currently leading on three evaluations which include the following:
Noreen is leading a collaboration with St Elizabeth Hospice and East Coast Community Healthcare in the development of a study proposal evaluating a specialist palliative care service across Great Yarmouth and Waveney.
In collaboration with colleagues within the School of Health and Sports Science and the Big C Cancer Charity (Norwich), Noreen is leading the development of a feasibility study on cancer prehabilitation.
She has been involved in many studies using different methodologies, most of her recent work has involved mixed methods which includes both quantitative and qualitative approaches.
Publications N.
Cushen-Brewster, R.M.
Strudwick , C.
Doolan, P.
Driscoll-Evans (2021) An evaluation of the experiences of radiography students working on the temporary HCPC register during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Radiography, DOI: 10.1016/j.radi.2021.03.003
Cushen-Brewster, N., Barker, A., Driscoll-Evans, P.
(2021) The Experiences of Practice Educator Facilitators and Academics Supporting Adult Nursing Students Completing a Paid Placement During the COVID-19 Pandemic.
COVID Special Issue – International Journal of Practice Based Health and Social Care-in Press
Cushen-Brewster, N.
Barker, A., Driscoll-Evans, P., Wigens,L., Langton H.
(2021) The experiences of adult nursing students completing their final placement during the COVID-19 pandemic.
British Journal of Nursing-in press
Sweeting, D; Cushen-Brewster, N (2019) The Implementation of a Behavioural Coach within Primary Care, British Journal of General Practice
Cushen, N.
(2009) Fears and anxieties women experience prior to accessing breast services in Ireland, Irish Breast Care Nurses Association, (6).
Cushen, N., South, J.
(2004) Patients as teachers: the patient’s role in improving cancer services, Professional Nurse, 19(7): 395-9.
Cushen, N., Bacon, A., Roddis, M.
(2002) Using an interactive chemotherapy training package to improve patient safety, Hospital Medicine, 63(5): 44-46.
Napier, M.
P., Sharma, S.
K., Springer, C.J., Bagshawe, K.
D., Green, A.
J., Martin, J., Stribbling, S.
M., Cushen, N., O’Malley, D., Begent, R.
H.
(2000) Antibody-directed enzyme prodrug therapy: efficacy and mechanism of action in colorectal carcinoma, Clinical Cancer Research, 6(3): 765-72.
Cushen, N., Wigens, L.
(2000) A staff support mechanism: the transformational partnership, British Journal of Nursing, 9(16): 1074-8.
Hope-Stone, L., Napier, M., Begent, R., Cushen, N., O'Malley, D.
(1997) The importance of measuring quality of life in phase I/II trials of cancer therapy: The effects of antibody targeted therapy, European Journal of Cancer Care, 6(4): 267-272.
Begent R, Verharr M, Chester KA, Casey JL, Napier MP, Hope-Stone LD, Cushen N, Keep PA, Johnson CJ, Hawkins RE, Hilson AJ, Robson L (1996) Clinical evidence of efficient tumour targeting based on single chain Fv antibody selected from a combinatorial library, Nature Medicine, 2(9): 979-84.
Articles
(2004) Let’s appoint more nurse consultants, Nursing Times, 100(33) 18.
(2004) Genetic cancer tests can be misleading, Nursing Times, 100(22) 18.
(2004) Are nurses becoming too specialised?
Nursing Times, 100(6): 16.
(2003) We need funding for qualitative research, Nursing Times, 99(38): 16.
(2003) All patients’ views are important, Nursing Times, 99(24): 17.
(2003) Good intentions may go up in smoke, Nursing Times, 99(9): 17.
(2002) Do trusts have stars in their eyes?, Nursing Times, 98(49): 17.
(2002) The year of living conspicuously, Nursing Times, 98(6): 27-8.
(2001) A way forward for nurse recruitment, Nursing Times, 97(37): 35.
Sweeting, D.
Cushen-Brewster, N (2019) To what extent does a warm home impact on health and wellbeing?” Sustainibility RISE Awards Conference, Ipswich.
This project won the 2019 RISE award for Social Value.
(2014) Integration-empowering people to stay at home ‘nothing between us that we cannot reslove’  East of England Clinical Senate,  Stanstead Airport
Cushen, N,  Darrah, C., Moore J, Horne, C (2012)  Enhancing Knowledge and Skills in Clinical Research: A partnership approach.
Cardiff City Hall
(2009) Fears and anxieties that women in Ireland experience prior to accessing breast services and their personal experiences of their treatment pathway, [Oral Presentation], The Annual Irish Breast Care Nurses Association Conference, Croke Park Conference Stadium, Dublin, April.
(2007) A randomised controlled trial of the psychological and quality of life effects of Daily Diary Cards on patients undergoing chemotherapy, [Oral Presentation], The 8th Interdisciplinary Research Conference, School of Nursing and Midwifery, Trinity College Dublin, November.
(2006) Background and use of complementary therapies in cancer care, [Oral Presentation], The Difficulties of Implementing NICE Guidelines for Supportive and Palliative Care, Cambridge, September.
(2006) NICE Guidelines for suspected cancers - who’s responsibility is it to ensure patients are supported?, [Oral Presentation], The GP’s role in the Implementation of the NICE Guidelines for Suspected Cancers, Fulbourn, Cambridge, May.
(2004) The challenges in setting up nurse-led clinics, and how to overcome them, [Oral Presentation], Nurse Led Care and Clinics in Oncology, London, November.
(2004) Patients as Teachers Model, [Oral Presentation], Patient Involvement Empowerment Information Conference, Manchester, May.
(2003) Case Study: recruiting and retaining nurses in specialist areas, [Oral presentation], Recruitment and Retention of Nurses (Conference organised by The Nursing Times), London, March.
(2003) Developing Patient Involvement – Work based learning, [Workshop], The Contribution of Nurse Consultants to the Modernisation Agenda (Conference organised by the Harrogate Centre), London, March.
(2002) The Patients as Teachers Model, [Workshop] Bacup Conference, London, December.
(2002) Using an interactive training package for the safe administration of cytotoxic chemotherapy, [Oral presentation], 12th International Conference on Cancer Nursing 2002, London, August – September.
(2002) A study of the training and educational needs of nurses delivering cancer care in a large district hospital, [Poster presentation], 12th International Conference on Cancer Nursing 2002, London, August – September.
(2001) Innovation in practice, [Oral presentation],  A Celebration of Practice (Princess Alexandra Hospital Conference), Harlow, November.
(2001) The cutting edge, [Oral presentation], Who wants to be a Nurse / Therapy Consultant?
(NHS Executive Eastern Region conference), Cambridge , June.
Cushen, N., Armitage, G., Callum, R.
(2001) Teamwork is the key to providing patient care for colorectal cancer patients, [Poster presentation], Working Together Can Make a Difference in Cancer Care, Ipswich, March.
(2001) A study of the post-registration educational qualifications of trained nurses in a cancer unit in a large District General Hospital, [Poster presentation], National Cancer Nursing Conference (Royal Marsden/RCN Conference), London, March.
(2001) A staff support mechanism: the transformational partnership, [Oral presentation], National Cancer Nursing Conference (Royal Marsden/RCN Conference), London, March.
Cushen, N., Parrish, L.
(2000) (An audit of a PICC placement service has improved quality and reduced costs, [Oral presentation], Cancer Care 2000 (RCN Conference), Chester, February.
Cushen, N., McEwan, L.
(1999) The benefits of a patient information booklet for breast cancer patients: an audit of its use after a twelve month period, [Poster presentation], Breakthrough Breast Cancer Conference, London, November.
(1996) The nurse's role in the co-ordination of ADEPT (Antibody-directed enzyme prodrug therapy): A new way forward for bowel cancer, [Poster presentation] CANCER CARE - Meeting the challenge (RCN conference), Glasgow, October.
Noreen enjoyed working collaboratively with other organisations, developing services, and evaluating the effectiveness of the new innovations.
She has been a Non-Executive Director for a local health social enterprise and supported them in developing their governance and quality processes.
Noreen has worked closely with many charitable organisations and is currently on the Board of Trustees for the Big C Cancer Charity in Norwich.
She hopes to be able to use her clinical/leadership experience to support them in the development of new initiatives.
Noreen is collaborating with colleagues in the Health Research Institute at the University of Limerick in Southern Ireland to develop a programme of research relating to cancer care and practice evaluation.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/get-in-touch/people-directory/school-of-health-sciences-and-society/gavin-devereux:
Dr Gavin Devereux is an Associate Professor in the School of Health, Sciences and Society.
Gavin is also course leader for BSc (Hons) Sport and Exercise Science.
Gavin teaches across a number of degrees in the sport and health sciences, publishes research in the sport and exercise sciences, with a current focus on the combined effects of air pollution and exercise on our pulmonary and immune function, and health generally.
Gavin has also provided consultancy expertise in health, elite sport and fitness technologies, including working with companies competing in Formula 1.
Dr Gavin Devereux has managed undergraduate and postgraduate courses for over ten years.
Gavin teaches health, exercise, and sport physiology for several courses at the University of Suffolk, as well as research methods and statistics to students across the School of Health, Sciences and Society.
Gavin also supervises PhD students.
Gavin’s research interests are based on our body’s responses and adaptations to exercise.
Early research was centred on the cardiovascular responses and adaptations to exercise, and specifically how exercise training can help reduce blood pressure.
The research was investigating (i) how effective different methods of exercise are, and (ii) how blood regulation is altered over time.
Working alongside his PhD students and fellow research academics, current research projects include exercise prehabilitation during prostate cancer diagnosis, training load monitoring in elite team sport, and return-to-play rehabilitation following injury.
Previous publications include:
Devereux G, Le Winton H, Black J, Beato M.
(2021) ‘Effect of a high-intensity short-duration cycling elevation training mask on VO2max and anaerobic power.
A randomized controlled trial’.
39 (1); 181-187.
Gardiner B, Devereux G, Beato M.
(2020) ‘Injury risk and injury incidence rates in Crossfit: A brief review’ The Journal of Sports Medicine and Physical Fitness.
doi: 10.23736/S0022-4707.20.10615-7
Vijendren A, Devereux G, Tietjen A, Duffield K, Van Rompaey V, Van de Heyning P, Yung M.
(2018) ‘The Ipswich Microbreak Technique to alleviate neck and shoulder discomfort during microscopic procedures’ Applied Ergonomics.
May 4.
pii: S0003-6870(18)30099-1.
doi: 10.1016/j.apergo.2018.04.013.
Beato M, Devereux G, Stiff A.
(2018) ‘Validity and reliability of global positioning system units (STATsports Viper) for measuring distance and peak speed in sports’.
32 (10); 2831-2837.
Devereux GR, Gibney D, Fadhlillah F, Brown P, Macey N, Rudland S.
(2018) ‘Two-day home blood pressure monitoring may offer an alternative to costlier methods’.
BMJ Innovations.
DOI: 10.1136/bmjinnov-2017-000247
Beato M, Jamil M, Devereux GR.
(2018) ‘Reliability of internal and external load parameters in recreational football (soccer) for health’.
26 (2); 244-250.
Vijendren A, Devereux GR, Kenway B, Duffield K, Van Rompaey V, van de Heyning P, Yung M.
(2017) ‘Effects of prolonged microscopic work on neck and back strain amongst male ENT clinicians and the benefits of a prototype postural support chair’.
International Journal of Occupational Safety and Ergonomics.
DOI: 10.1080/10803548.2017.1386411
Tietjen A, Devereux GR.
(2017) ‘The physical demands of exergaming in healthy young adults’.
DOI: 10.1519/JSC.0000000000002235
(2017) 'The Reliability of technical and tactical tagging analysis conducted by a semi-automatic Video-Tracking System (Digital.Stadium®) in soccer’.
Journal of Human Kinetics.
62; 103-110.
Devereux GR, Wiles JD, Howden R.
(2014) ‘Immediate post isometric exercise cardiovascular responses are associated with training induced resting blood pressure adaptations’.
115 (2): 327-333.
Gill KF, Arthur ST, Swaine IL, Devereux GR, Huet YM, Wikstrom EA, Cordova ML, Howden R.
(2014) ‘The effect of isometric exercise training intensity on resting blood pressure adaptations’.
Journal of Sport Sciences.
doi: 10.1080/02640414.2014.953979.
Devereux GR, Coleman DA, Wiles JD, Swaine IL.
(2012) ‘Lactate accumulation following isometric exercise training and its relationship with reduced resting blood pressure’.
30 (11): 1141-1148.
Devereux GR, Wiles JD, Swaine IL.
(2011) ‘Relationships between markers of isometric training intensity and reductions in resting blood pressure’.
29 (7): 715-724.
(2010) ‘Reductions in resting blood pressure after 4 weeks of isometric exercise training’.
109 (4): 601-606.
Gavin works with colleagues in the NHS to undertake original research and service evaluations, and helped create partnerships with two leading sport science companies.
Qualisys Motion Capture Systems now have a UK base at the University of Suffolk, and we have a partnership with STATsports for the benefit of our staff and students.
Gavin enjoys research collaboration with colleagues in North America and Italy.
Gavin is a Fellow of the Higher Education Academy.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/dr-fandi-ibrahim:
Dr Fandi Ibrahim is an Associate Professor and Course Leader for the BSc (Hons) Nutrition and Human Health programme at the University of Suffolk.
He leads on curriculum design, quality assurance, and delivery of core modules across the undergraduate programme.
He also plays a key role in maintaining the course’s accreditation by the Association for Nutrition (AfN) and is actively involved in course revalidation, student mentoring, and the development of graduate employability initiatives.
Dr Fandi Ibrahim is a Registered Nutritionist (RNutr) with the UK Voluntary Register of Nutritionists (UKVRN), a Fellow of the Higher Education Academy, and an active member of several professional groups, including the Nutrition Society and the University’s Health and Wellbeing group.
Dr Ibrahim is an internationally recognised expert in the field of functional foods and gut health.
Prior to joining the University of Suffolk, he worked as a Researcher at the Functional Foods Forum, University of Turku, Finland, and as a Scientist with DuPont Nutrition and Health in Finland.
With over 20 years of experience spanning academia and industry, Dr Ibrahim continues to bridge scientific research and applied practice in nutrition.
His recent research has focused on probiotics, dietary fibre, and gut microbiota.
Notably, he led the development of the “5Ad Dietary Protocol for Functional Bowel Disorders”, a long-term evidence-based approach addressing dietary triggers of gut symptoms.
Dr Ibrahim welcomes research collaborations that aim to explore the underlying physiological mechanisms in nutrition science.
He regularly presents at international conferences, has contributed to several public science communication initiatives including radio talks, and serves as a peer reviewer for scientific journals.
He also currently holds an external examiner role at the University of Northampton for their BSc (Hons) degree in Nutrition and Lifestyle Medicine.
Dr Ibrahim currently teaches the following modules:
He is also responsible for supervising undergraduate research projects and has a strong interest in supporting students with research-led learning.
Research areas:
Full list available upon request or via ORCID

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/dr-federica-masieri:
Federica Masieri was born in Rovigo (Italy) and spent the majority of her life in Ferrara (Italy), still travelling frequently across Europe and outside.
Her academic background is in Bioscience, with a specialist bio-molecular and biotechnological-molecular curriculum.
She graduated with honours and special mention at University of Ferrara.
Afterward she completed a PhD in Biomedical, Neurophysiological and Endocrinological Sciences at the Department of Morphology and Histology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Ferrara.
During her PhD she published extensively in high-ranked peer-reviewed journals, with particular dedication to the area of joint cell biology, preventative medicine and future medicine.
During her PhD she collaborated with numerous academic and clinic research groups, as well as with a biomedical SMI (IGEA S.p.A., Carpi, MO), strengthening her vision of the research field outside the laboratory.
As a Post-Doc, she was project designer and manager of an European Community-funded project Spinner 2013 , developed in collaboration with University of Ferrara, IGEA Company and six international orthopaedic centres, to develop an innovative protocol based on the ankle stimulation with low-frequency and low-energy pulsed electromagnetic fields in sportsmen and women, after ankle articular trauma.
During this experience she also started developing new in vitro protocols for the differentiation of human derived mesenchymal stem cells from different sources, particularly towards the chondrogenic and osteogenic lineage.
She continued her Post-Doc experience, still collaborating with the University of Ferrara, IGEA Company, but also increasing her network to include the Rizzoli Orthopaedic Institute (Bologna) and St.
Anna Hospital (Ferrara).
She also was awarded a Study Visit Programme by Spinner 2013, having the opportunity to visit the prestigious Max Plank Institute for Molecular Cell Biology and Genetics of Dresden (Germany).
In June 2011 she joined the University as a Research Fellow to contribute to an innovative two-year programme of collaborative research between the University of Suffolk Biotechnology Unit and Geron Corporation with the use of established and evolving protocols for the production of chondrocytes from human embryonic stem cell (hESC).
These technologies aimed to be refined and developed for future clinical use, and to potentially support regulatory approval of the resultant therapy.
Since January 2012 she actively joined the Science Teaching Team.
She is Course Leader for the Biomedical Science and she contributes extensively to the teaching provision across all undergraduate levels within the Life Science area.
Masieri has a substantial record of publications in peer-reviewed journals (please see the list below) and 17 congress abstract presented to International Scientific Meetings (please contact Dr.
Masieri for a full list), together with the involvement in several national and international scientific projects, including grant writing and submission.
Believing that the first duty of a scientist is to be open minded and creative, Dr.
Masieri is constantly updating and strengthening her knowledge in her expertise field and nourishing her polyhedral culture with elements of art history, philosophy, literature, ancient Greek and Latin studies.
The main purpose of Dr.
Masieri's teaching is to equip students with a solid theoretical knowledge of Biological principles, along with a thorough vision of applications of the principles learned.
Being an active researcher she underpins  research-based aspects in her teaching.
She is responsible for designing and delivering strongly practical-oriented modules,  particularly in the MSc Regenerative Medicine, Bioscience level 5 and 6.
She believes that teaching does not finish in the classroom: through the organisation of extra tutorials, Science Seminar Series, Bioscience Coffee Mornings, Science Summer Activities, Student Awards and Student Trips she is committed to create in her student a strong sense of belonging to the Bioscience Community, and more extensively, to the Science Community.
Stem cell biology and potential applications in tissue regeneration, Musculoskeletal biology, Rheumatoid Arthritis and osteoarthritis, STEM for girls and women, International research collaboration landscapes in the area of science and technology (with direct examples), Erasmus programmes: opportunities for our students and incoming EU students

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/get-in-touch/people-directory/school-of-health-sciences-and-society/dr-georgina-marsh:
Dr Georgina Marsh currently works as the Head of Pharmacy and is an Associate Professor in Pharmaceutics and Clinical Pharmacy.
Georgina's research interests focuses on the development of novel dosage forms tailored to the needs of the patient, including; pharmaceutical additive manufacturing (3D printing), paediatrics, biomimetics and pharmacy education.
Georgina gained a Master of Pharmacy with Honours (MPharm Hons) 1st class degree from The University of Nottingham in 2012, followed by an industrial pre-registration year and a PhD in the CDT at the University of Nottingham for formulation sciences and targeted therapeutics, evaluating particle adhesion to 3D printed micron scale morphologies.
Prior to joining the University of Suffolk in March 2025, Georgina worked for AstraZeneca as a senior formulation scientist (2018-2019) in product development and an Assistant Professor in Pharmacy at the University of Nottingham Malaysia (2019-2023), where Georgina was the Programme Manager of the first Malaysia Young Entrepreneur Scheme 2021.
Georgina has recently joined from Swansea University where she worked as a Senior Lecturer in Clinical Pharmacy (2023-2025).
Over five years of academic experience including the design, development and delivery of lectures, workshops and laboratory classes to groups of 40-100 students in pharmaceutics, clinical pharmacy and pharmacy practice.
Programme mapping and curriculum design for the MPharm programme.
Master of Pharmacy (MPharm)
Georgina’s research focuses on the development of novel dosage forms tailored to the needs of the patient.
One of the main avenues of research involves the 3D printing (additive manufacturing) of pharmaceuticals.
Georgina is always looking out for collaborators who have a clinical need who are interested in exploring the possibility of using 3D printing as a solution.
Areas Of Expertise -Pharmaceutical 3D printing -Respiratory Drug Delivery -Biomimetics -Paediatrics -Pharmacy education -Material Characterisation Research Publications 1.
Marsh, G., Tan, N., Neate, N., Jodeiri, K., Wildman, R., & Yee, M.
(n.d.) Bioinspired Two Photon Polymerized Surface Textured Microstructure Antibacterial Surfaces.
In Biomaterials, Biodegradables and Biomimetics - 3Bs Materials 2024 International Conference (pp.
2-6).
https://doi.org/10.26799/cp-3bsmaterials-2024 https://www.setcor.org/publications 2.
Tan, N., Im, J., Neate, N., Leong, C., Wildman, R., Marsh, G., & Yee, M.
Mechano-bactericidal activity of two-photon polymerized micro-and nanoscale topographies against Pseudomonas aeruginosa: Surface interactions and antibacterial efficacy.
Materials Today Communications, 40, 109785 https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mtcomm.2024.109785 3.
Tan, N., Im, J., Neate, N., Wildman, R., Marsh, G., & Yee, M.
Revolutionizing Antibacterial Surfaces: 3D Printed Nanoscale and Microscale Topographies through Two-Photon Polymerization.
Key Engineering Materials, 977, 163-172.
https://doi.org/10.4028/p-9mqipb, SU Repository: https://cronfa.swan.ac.uk/Record/cronfa65881 4.
Marsh, G., Bunker, M., Alexander, M., Wildman, R., Nicholas, M., & Roberts, C.
Utilising micron scale 3D printed morphologies for particle adhesion reduction.
Powder Technology, 404, 117418 https://doi.org/10.1016/j.powtec.2022.117418 5.
Marsh, G.
Abstracts from The Aerosol Society Drug Delivery to the Lungs 27 Edinburgh International Conference Centre Edinburgh, Scotland, UK December 7–9, 2016.
In Journal of Aerosol Medicine and Pulmonary Drug Delivery (pp.
A-1).
Mary Ann Liebert Inc.
https://doi.org/10.1089/jamp.2017.ab02.abstracts 6.
Mastrotto, F., Breen, A., Sicilia, G., Murdan, S., Johnstone, A., Marsh, G., Grainger-Boultby, C., Russell, N., Alexander, C., & Mantovani, G.
One-pot RAFT and fast polymersomes assembly: a ‘beeline’ from monomers to drug-loaded nanovectors.
Polymer Chemistry, 7(44), 6714-6724.
https://doi.org/10.1039/c6py01292b Key Grants and Projects Elucidating formulation requirements for temporal release of growth factors and antibiotics from a 3D printed wound dressing (FRGS).
2023 For recent publications please refer to my Google Scholar (https://scholar.google.co.uk/citations?user=rETR4TYAAAAJ&hl=en), ResearchGate (http://researchgate.net/profile/Georgina_Marsh), ORCID (https://orcid.org/0000-0001-8621-2925) or SCOPUS (http://www.scopus.com/authid/detail.uri?authorId=57191887731) profile.
Experience both working and studying in international settings in Malaysia, India and Sweden.
Georgina also has research collaborators in the UK, Malaysia, Japan and Singapore.
Royal Pharmaceutical Society (RPS) General Pharmaceutical Council (GPhC) Fellow of Higher Education Academy

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/get-in-touch/people-directory/school-of-health-sciences-and-society/christine-nightingale-:
Dr Christine Nightingale originally trained as a registered nurse for people with learning disabilities.
This experience has influenced her whole career and her advocacy for fairness, equality, equity and social justice, most especially in health and education.
Chris believes strongly that designing inclusive provision impacts positively on everyone.
Her PhD focussed on access to health care for people with learning disabilities, addressing attitudes, social and health policy, experiences of women with learning disability and the lack of accessible health information about everyday health screening procedures.
Chris has worked in four UK universities, in third sector organisations and the NHS (in hospitals, community and commissioning).
She continues to practice clinically whenever she can.
Chris has always had a deep interest in how people learn and how curriculum design, teaching and assessment strategies can better support learning.
Her particular interest is in inclusion and in inclusive approaches.
For many years Chris has led on research and development projects which have explored inclusive teaching and learning across the post 16 education sectors.
She is a reflective and reflexive educator and appreciates feedback on her work.
In recent years she has explored how lecturers can individually and collectively review their learning resources, including on presentations, assessment mechanisms and learning platforms, to increase the diversity and relevance of the curriculum for all learners.
Chris has taught across all fields of nursing, and to allied health professionals, medics and social care staff.
Most recently her responsibilities have included professionalism studies, cognitive health and disability studies, and health inequalities.
She is a licenced Mental Health First Aid trainer and a Senior HEA Fellow.
Chris has supervised Master’s and doctoral students to completion.
Addressing inequalities has been a driving passion for Chris.
Her PhD, completed in 1997, identified the systemic barriers to cervical screening, and how the attitudes of health professionals impacted on the experiences of women with learning disabilities.
This led to work on the sexual experiences and sexual health and education needs of people with learning disabilities.
Chris has worked as a LeDeR mortality reviewer, assessing the health and social care provision offered and delivered to people with learning disabilities during their lifetimes, up to the point that they died.
She is acutely aware that there is still much to be explored and changed.
Chris has completed a number of commissioned research projects on the experiences of disabled staff working in further and higher education, led a national inquiry, and explored the ways in which the concept of equality and equity can be embedded into education for adults.
From her recent work in an accessible vaccination clinic, Chris has even greater interest in exploring how to make organisational changes to address health inequalities with health and social care providers.
Publications and Conferences:
Chris has worked with private sector companies including a national league football club, the finance sector, food industry, airline and travel industries, in delivering mental health training.
She has also worked as a consultant for organisations wishing to achieve equality and inclusion charter marks.
Chris is particularly interested in supporting health and social care organisations in increasing the knowledge and skills of their staff in working with people with learning disabilities and with organisations who would like to improve the accessibility and inclusiveness of their services.
Chris has most recently led on two international seminars in partnership with the Royal College of Nursing (RCN).
These were in response to concerns for the plight of people with learning disabilities, their families and carers, in Ukraine.
One of the seminars focussed on how to support people with learning disabilities with the experience of trauma.
Chris has presented at 3 international conferences on Equality and Diversity: in New Zealand, France and Germany.
In 1992, during the time of the civil war, Chris travelled to the former Yugoslavia to assess the needs of a large institution caring for people with learning disabilities.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/dr-emmanouil-georgiadis:
Emmanouil (Manos) Georgiadis is an internationally known expert in applying motivational constructs in Sport and Exercise Psychology, and well-being.
He has helped athletes of individual and team sports improving their abilities and reaching their potential as a recognised Sport Psychologist.
Under his guidance, Olympic-level and professional athletes enhanced their performance through focusing on the psychological and cognitive components of their sport.
Having a sporting background as an elite swimmer, Manos has always been keen on discovering the motivating elements of behaviour persistence and excellence, stemming from human intellect and psyche.
Manos combines the knowledge of Sport and Exercise Sciences, to Psychology and Counselling, Positive Psychology and well-being promoting a global perspective of consciousness and continual development.
He has worked since 2001 as a counsellor in Sport and Exercise Psychology dealing with issues pertaining to health, wellbeing, human performance, positive psychological states and chronic pain.
Before arriving at the University of Suffolk, Manos was a researcher at the Kapodistrian and National University of Athens, Greece and Loughborough University, U.K.
where he was awarded his Doctoral Degree.
As an identified expert he delivered bespoke courses in institutions such as the Greek Police Academy, the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, the University of Thessaly, and the Northumbria University at Newcastle (franchised programme).
He has been also a Personal Trainer for more than 15 years, contributing to more active and healthy lifestyles through applying the motivational constructs of Exercise Psychology.
Further, Dr Georgiadis theoretical and practical endeavours expand in the interdisciplinary study of human life, as he is interested in the maintenance of quality of life throughout the whole lifespan.
Dr Emmanouil Georgiadis in his undergraduate studies attended Physical Education and Sport Sciences (Kapodistrian University of Athens, Greece) and Applied Psychology (City University of Seattle, USA).
He was awarded with the Degree of Master of Science in Exercise and Sport Psychology (University of Exeter, U.K.) and he earned his PhD in Sport and Exercise Psychology (Loughborough University, UK).
Manos' research interests are related to the study of motivation in sport and exercise settings.
He believes in the empowerment of athletes through the constructs of Sport Psychology; that proper management of their cognitions and emotions can lead them to sporting excellence.
In the field of Exercise and Health, he is especially interested to examine the social and environmental effects on sedentariness and exercise behaviour in the whole life span.
He has designed and implemented physical activity promotion programmes, as well as, wellbeing and quality of life courses in Britain and Greece, in collaboration with national and private institutes.
His work has been presented in National, European and World Congresses of Sport and Exercise Psychology and General Psychology.
Manos is currently involved in wellbeing, chronic pain and psychophysiology related projects.
Selected publications (see ORCID ID: 0000-0001-6166-0975 for full listing)
Johnson, M.
I., Bonacaro, A., Georgiadis, E., & Woodall, J.
Non-biomedical perspectives on pain and its prevention and management.
Frontiers in Pain Research, 5, 1404074.
(eBook) https://www.frontiersin.org/research-topics/42496/non-biomedical-perspectives-on-pain-and-its-prevention-and-management/magazine?
Johnson MI, Bonacaro A, Georgiadis E and Woodall J (2024) Editorial: Non-biomedical perspectives on pain and its prevention and management.
Front.
Pain Res.
5:1404074.
doi: 10.3389/fpain.2024.1404074 Cogan, N., Morton, L., Georgiadis, E., Butler, S.
H., Fleck, V.
J., & Johnstone, J.
Exploring the perspectives of healthcare professionals concerning the use and utility of the hospital gown to develop theoretically informed behaviour change interventions.
Public Health Open Access, 8(1), 1-11.
https://doi.org/10.23880/phoa-16000265
Donnelly, D., & Georgiadis, E.
The Importance of Measuring Heart Rate Recovery Alongside Aerobic Capacity; A Role For HRV?
https://meddocsonline.org/annals-of-epidemiology-and-public-health/the-importance-of-measuring-heart-rate-recovery-alongside-aerobic-capacity-a-role-for-hrv.pdf
Georgiadis, E., & Johnson, M.
I.
Incorporating personal narratives in positive psychology interventions to manage chronic pain.
Frontiers in Pain Research, 4.
https://doi.org/10.3389/fpain.2023.1253310
Monaco, F., Georgiadis, E., Chatsiou, K., & Bonacaro, A.
Understanding chronic pain in the ubiquitous community: the role of open data.
Donnelly, D., Georgiadis, E., & Stavrou, N.
A meta-analysis investigating the outcomes and correlation between heart rate variability biofeedback training on depressive symptoms and heart rate variability outcomes versus standard treatment in comorbid adult populations.
Acta Biomedica Atenei Parmensis, 94(4), e2023214.
https://doi.org/10.23750/abm.v94i4.14305
Tampouratzi, E., Georgiadis, E., Cheliotis, G., Pesiridis, G., Dikeakos, P., Kostaki, M., ...
& Sfaelos, K.
PSORIASIS, PHYSICAL ACTIVITY AND BRODALUMAB TREATMENT.
World Journal of Pharmaceutical Science and Research, 2(5).
https://www.wjpsronline.com/
He has designed innovative CPD programmes in health promotion and well-being.
His approach combines contemporary epidemiology evidence and motivational techniques, with psychophysiology mechanisms facilitating learning and new health habits based on central behaviours.
Dr Georgiadis is involved in international research collaborations and InterVision sessions with a network of Sport and Exercise Psychologists throughout Europe.
Since 2017 he has been involved in Erasmus teaching programs along with European University Institutions in Italy, Spain, Germany, Greece, Norway and Cyprus.
Dr Emmanouil Georgiadis is a Senior Fellow of Higher Education Academy, a Certified Sport and Exercise Psychology Counsellor, a Member of European Federation of Sport Psychology and the American Psychological Association and a Member of the Cognitive Therapeutic Method of EMDR.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/dr-nick-tucker:
Nick Tucker is one of the lecturers on the Biomedical Science course.
He is a molecular microbiologist interested in the biology of Pseudomonas bacteria.
This genus contains pathogens such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa as well as the important biotechnology chassis organism Pseudomonas putida.
Nick grew up in Suffolk and studied biochemistry at Heriot-Watt University in Edinburgh followed by human molecular genetics at Imperial College London where he gained an interest in gene regulation.
In 2002 he moved to the University of East Anglia to study transcriptional regulation of the Escherichia coli nitrosative stress response and completed this work at the BBSRC John Innes Centre in 2005.
He remained at the John Innes Centre as a post-doctoral research fellow until establishing his own research group at the University of Strathclyde in 2009.
During 13 years at Strathclyde Nick’s work has been funded by various sources including BBSRC, MRC and the Industrial Biotechnology Innovation Centre, where he served a term as a member of the IBioIC Scientific Advisory Board.
Nick maintains an honorary research role at Strathclyde and is an active member of the Microbiology Society as an elected member of the Prokaryotic Division and an editor of Microbiology.
Research Interests:
Please contact Nick if you are interested in a PhD in either of these research areas.
Nick has taught on IBMS accredited Biomedical Sciences degrees for over a decade.
He is module lead for:
Biochemistry (Level 4) Medical Microbiology (Level 5) Research Methods & Scientific Communication (Level 5) Microbial Organisms (Level 5)
McSorley, J.
C., MacFadyen, A.
C., Kerr, L., & Tucker, N.
P.
Host lysolipid differentially modulates virulence factor expression and antimicrobial susceptibility in Pseudomonas aeruginosa .
Microbiology , 168 (7).
http://doi.org/10.1099/mic.0.001179
Kerr, L., Browning, D.
F., Lemonidis, K., Salih, T., Hunter, I.
S., Suckling, C.
J., & Tucker, N.
Novel antibiotic mode of action by repression of promoter isomerisation.
bioRxiv , 2020.12.31.424950.
http://doi.org/10.1101/2020.12.31.424950
Sydney, N., Swain, M.
T., So, J.
T., Hoiczyk, E., Tucker, N.
P ., & Whitworth, D.
The Genetics of Prey Susceptibility to Myxobacterial Predation: A Review, Including an Investigation into Pseudomonas aeruginosa Mutations Affecting Predation by Myxococcus xanthus .
Microbial Physiology , 1–10.
http://doi.org/10.1159/000515546
Moore, M.
P., Lamont, I.
L., Williams, D., Paterson, S., Kukavica-Ibrulj, I., Tucker, N.
P ., et al.
Transmission, adaptation and geographical spread of the Pseudomonas aeruginosa Liverpool epidemic strain.
Microbial Genomics , 7 (3).
http://doi.org/10.1099/mgen.0.000511
Efthimiou, G., & Tucker, N.
Microbes Against Humanity, a workshop game for horrible students: using a creative card game in higher education microbiology teaching.
Access Microbiology , 14 , 9.
http://doi.org/10.1099/acmi.0.000186
O’Boyle, N., Connolly, J.
R., Tucker, N.
, & Roe, A.
Genomic plasticity of pathogenic Escherichia coli mediates d-serine tolerance via multiple adaptive mechanisms.
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America , 104 , 202004977.
http://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.2004977117
Schniete, J.
K., Reumerman, R., Kerr, L., Tucker, N.
, Hunter, I.
S., Herron, P.
R., & Hoskisson, P.
Differential transcription of expanded gene families in central carbon metabolism of Streptomyces coelicolorA3(2).
Access Microbiology , 2 (6), acmi000122.
http://doi.org/10.1099/acmi.0.000122
Lemonidis, K., Salih, T.
S., Dancer, S.
J., Hunter, I.
S., & Tucker, N.
Emergence of an Australian-like pstS-null vancomycin resistant Enterococcus faecium clone in Scotland.
PloS One , 14 (6), e0218185.
http://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0218185
Ward, A.
C., Hannah, A.
J., Kendrick, S.
L., Tucker, N.
P., MacGregor, G., & Connolly, P.
Identification and characterisation of Staphylococcus aureus on low cost screen printed carbon electrodes using impedance spectroscopy.
Biosensors & Bioelectronics , 110 , 65–70.
Ainsley Beaton, Cédric Lood, Edward Cunningham-Oakes, Alison MacFadyen, Alex J Mullins, Walid El Bestawy, João Botelho, Sylvie Chevalier, Shannon Coleman, Chloe Dalzell, Stephen K Dolan, Alberto Faccenda, Maarten G K Ghequire, Steven Higgins, Alexander Kutschera, Jordan Murray, Martha Redway, Talal Salih, Ana C da Silva, Brian A Smith, Nathan Smits, Ryan Thomson, Stuart Woodcock, Martin Welch, Pierre Cornelis, Rob Lavigne, Vera van Noort, and Nicholas P Tucker.
Community-led comparative genomic and phenotypic analysis of the aquaculture pathogen Pseudomonas baetica a390T sequenced by Ion semiconductor and Nanopore technologies.
FEMS Microbiology Letters , 365 (9), 103.
Luca Freschi, Claire Bertelli, Julie Jeukens, Matthew P Moore, Irena Kukavica-Ibrulj, Jean-Guillaume Emond-Rheault, Jérémie Hamel, Joanne L Fothergill, Nicholas P Tucker , Siobhán McClean, Jens Klockgether, Anthony de Soyza, Fiona S L Brinkman, Roger C Levesque, and Craig Winstanley.
Genomic characterisation of an international Pseudomonas aeruginosa reference panel indicates that the two major groups draw upon distinct mobile gene pools.
FEMS Microbiology Letters , 365 (14), W16.
(2018) .
Jeukens, J., Freschi, L., Kukavica-Ibrulj, I., Emond-Rheault, J.-G., Tucker, N.
P ., & Levesque, R.
Genomics of antibiotic-resistance prediction in Pseudomonas aeruginosa .
Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences , 13 , 42.
Laura C McCaughey, Inokentijs Josts, Rhys Grinter, Paul White, Olwyn Byron, Nicholas P Tucker, Jacqueline M Matthews, Colin Kleanthous, Cynthia B Whitchurch, and Daniel Walker (2016) Discovery, characterization and in vivo activity of pyocin SD2, a protein antibiotic from Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
Biochem J , 2016 vol.
473 (15) pp.
2345-2358.
Lemieux A-A, Jeukens J, Kukavica-Ibrulj I, Fothergill JL, Boyle B, Laroche J, Tucker NP , Winstanley C, Levesque RC.
2016 .
Genes Required for Free Phage Production are Essential for Pseudomonas aeruginosa Chronic Lung Infections.
Journal of Infectious Diseases 213 (3): 395-402.
Open Access .
Freschi L, Jeukens J, Kukavica-Ibrulj I, Boyle B, Dupont M-J, Laroche J, Larose S, Maaroufi H, Fothergill JL, Moore M, Winsor GL, Aaron SD, Barbeau J, Bell SC, Burns JL, Cámara M, Cantin A, Charette SJ, Dewar K, Déziel E, Grimwood K, Hancock REW, Harrison JJ, Heeb S, Jelsbak L, Jia B, Kenna DT, Kidd TJ, Klockgether J, Lam JS, Lamont IL, Lewenza S, Loman N, Malouin F, Manos J, McArthur AG, McKeown J, Milot J, Naghra H, Nguyen D, Pereira SK, Perron GG, Pirnay J-P, Rainey PB, Rousseau S, Santos PM, Stephenson A, Taylor V, Turton JF, Waglechner N, Williams P, Thrane SW, Wright GD, Brinkman FSL, Tucker NP , Tümmler B, Winstanley C, Levesque RC.
( 2015 ).
Clinical utilization of genomics data produced by the international Pseudomonas aeruginosa consortium.
Front Microbiol 6 .
Open Access
Johns BE, Purdy KJ, Tucker NP , Maddocks S.
2015 .
Phenotypic and Genotypic Characteristics of Small Colony Variants and Their Role in Chronic Infection.
Microbiology Insights 8:15–23.
Ward AC, Connolly P, Tucker NP .
2014 .
Pseudomonas aeruginosa Can Be Detected in a Polymicrobial Competition Model Using Impedance Spectroscopy with a Novel Biosensor.
PLoS ONE 9 :e91732.
McCaughey LC, Grinter R, Josts I, Roszak AW, Waløen KI, Cogdell RJ, Milner J, Evans T, Kelly S, Tucker NP , Byron O, Smith B, Walker D.
Lectin-Like Bacteriocins from Pseudomonas spp.
Utilise D-Rhamnose Containing Lipopolysaccharide as a Cellular Receptor.
PLoS Pathog 10:e1003898.
Open Access.
Sangal V, Nieminen L, Weinhardt B, Raeside J, Tucker NP , Florea C-D, Pollock KG, Hoskisson PA.
Diphtheria-like disease caused by toxigenic Corynebacterium ulcerans strain.
Emerging Infect Dis 20:1257–1258.
Jeukens J, Boyle B, Kukavica-Ibrulj I, Ouellet MM, Aaron SD, Charette SJ, Fothergill JL, Tucker NP , Winstanley C, Levesque RC.
Comparative Genomics of Isolates of a Pseudomonas aeruginosa Epidemic Strain Associated with Chronic Lung Infections of Cystic Fibrosis Patients.
PLoS ONE 9:e87611.
Stewart L, Ford A, Sangal V, Jeukens J, Boyle B, Caim S, Crossman L, Hoskisson PA, Levesque R, Tucker NP .
2013 .
Draft genomes of twelve host adapted and environmental isolates of Pseudomonas aeruginosa and their position in the core genome phylogeny.
Pathog Dis 71:20–25.
Reumerman RA, Tucker NP , Herron PR, Hoskisson PA, Sangal V.
Tool for rapid annotation of microbial SNPs (TRAMS): a simple program for rapid annotation of genomic variation in prokaryotes.
Antonie Van Leeuwenhoek.
Volume 104, Issue 3, pp 431-434.
Candelaresi M, Gumeiro A, Adamczyk K, Robb K, Bellota-Antón C, Sangal V, Munnoch JT, Greetham GM, Towrie M, Hoskisson PA, Parker AW, Tucker NP , Walsh MA, Hunt N.
Bound Water is Central to Both Molecular Recognition and Function in the Catalase Enzyme.
Org Biomol Chem.
2013, 11 , 7778-7788 IF = 3.3
Sangal V, Tucker NP , Burkovski A, Hoskisson PA.
2012 .
Draft genome sequence of Corynebacterium diphtheriae biovar intermedius NCTC 5011.
J Bacteriol 194:4738.
Kirby R, Sangal V, Tucker NP , Zakrzewska-Czerwinska J, Wierzbicka K, Herron PR, Chu C-J, Chandra G, Fahal AH, Goodfellow M, Hoskisson PA.
Draft Genome Sequence of the Human Pathogen Streptomyces somaliensis , a Significant Cause of Actinomycetoma.
J Bacteriol 194:3544–3545.
The Draft Genome Sequence of Corynebacterium diphtheriae bv.
mitis NCTC 3529 Reveals Significant Diversity between the Primary Disease-Causing Biovars.
J Bacteriol 194:3269.
Adamczyk K, Candelaresi M, Kania R, Robb K, Bellota-Antón C, Greetham GM, Pollard MR, Towrie M, Parker AW, Hoskisson PA, Tucker NP , Hunt NT.
The effect of point mutation on the equilibrium structural fluctuations of ferric Myoglobin.
Phys Chem Chem Phys 14:7411–7419.
Adamczyk K, Candelaresi M, Robb K, Gumiero A, Walsh MA, Parker AW, Hoskisson PA, Tucker NP , Hunt NT.
Measuring protein dynamics with ultrafast two-dimensional infrared spectroscopy.
Meas Sci Technol 23:062001.
Hunt NT, Greetham GM, Towrie M, Parker AW, Tucker NP .
2011 .
Relationship between protein structural fluctuations and rebinding dynamics in ferric haem nitrosyls.
Biochem J 433:459–468.
Bush M, Ghosh T, Tucker N , Zhang X, Dixon R.
2010 .
Nitric oxide-responsive interdomain regulation targets the σ54-interaction surface in the enhancer binding protein NorR.
Mol Microbiol 77:1278–1288.
Bellota-Antón C, Munnoch J, Robb K, Adamczyk K, Candelaresi M, Parker AW, Dixon R, Hutchings MI, Hunt NT, Tucker NP .
Spectroscopic analysis of protein Fe-NO complexes.
Biochem Soc Trans 39:1293–1298.
Transcriptional regulation by the dedicated nitric oxide sensor, NorR: a route towards NO detoxification.
Biochem Soc Trans 39:289–293.
Tucker NP , Ghosh T, Bush M, Zhang X, Dixon R.
Essential roles of three enhancer sites in sigma54-dependent transcription by the nitric oxide sensing regulatory protein NorR.
Nucleic Acids Res 38:1182–1194.
Tucker NP , Le Brun NE, Dixon R, Hutchings MI.
There's NO stopping NsrR, a global regulator of the bacterial NO stress response.
Trends Microbiol 18:149–156.
Tucker NP , D'Autréaux B, Yousafzai FK, Fairhurst SA, Spiro S, Dixon R.
2008 .
Analysis of the nitric oxide-sensing non-heme iron center in the NorR regulatory protein.
J Biol Chem 283:908–918.
D'Autréaux B, Tucker N , Spiro S, Dixon R.
Characterization of the nitric oxide-reactive transcriptional activator NorR.
Meth Enzymol 437:235–251.
Tucker NP , Hicks MG, Clarke TA, Crack JC, Chandra G, Le Brun NE, Dixon R, Hutchings MI.
The transcriptional repressor protein NsrR senses nitric oxide directly via a [2Fe-2S] cluster.
PLoS ONE 3:e3623.
Tucker NP , D'Autréaux B, Spiro S, Dixon R.
2006 .
Mechanism of transcriptional regulation by the Escherichia coli nitric oxide sensor NorR.
Biochem Soc Trans 34:191–194.
D'Autréaux B, Tucker NP , Dixon R, Spiro S.
2005 .
A non-haem iron centre in the transcription factor NorR senses nitric oxide.
Nature 437:769–772.
Tucker N , D'Autréaux B, Spiro S, Dixon R.
DNA binding properties of the Escherichia coli nitric oxide sensor NorR: towards an understanding of the regulation of flavorubredoxin expression.
Biochem Soc Trans 33:181–183.
Tucker NP , D'Autréaux B, Studholme DJ, Spiro S, Dixon R.
2004 .
DNA binding activity of the Escherichia coli nitric oxide sensor NorR suggests a conserved target sequence in diverse proteobacteria.
J Bacteriol 186:6656–6660.
Waddington SN, Buckley SMK, Nivsarkar M, Jezzard S, Schneider H, Dahse T, Kemball-Cook G, Miah M, Tucker N , Dallman MJ, Themis M, Coutelle C.
2003 .
In utero gene transfer of human factor IX to fetal mice can induce postnatal tolerance of the exogenous clotting factor.
Blood 101:1359–1366.
BOOK CHAPTERS
Jeukens J, Boyle B, Tucker NP , Levesque RC.
Strategy for genome sequencing analysis and assembly for comparative genomics of Pseudomonas genomes.
Methods Mol Biol 1149:565–577.
MacKenzie A, Stewart L, Hoskisson PA, Tucker NP .
Transcriptional analysis of Pseudomonas aeruginosa infected Caenorhabditis elegans .
Methods Mol Biol 1149:607–612.
Sangal V, Nieminen L, Tucker NP , Hoskisson PA.
Revolutionizing Prokaryotic Systematics Through Next-Generation Sequencing, pp.
75–101.
In Methods in Microbiology.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/dr-mikael-jamil:
Mikael joined us in the summer of 2016 after completing his interdisciplinary PhD in Sports Science and Sports Economics at Loughborough University.
Mikael is currently a Senior Lecturer on several bespoke modules within Sports Performance Analysis and the wider Sports Sciences discipline.
Mikael is also a supervisor of multiple PhD students.
Mikael’s research interests are focused in the main, on technical skill efficiency and skill acquisition in the sports of football and cricket.
Specifically, Mikael has examined performances at the elite level in both football and cricket and has published several scientific investigations in numerous international journals.
In addition, Mikael is a reviewer for some of the most prestigious journals in Sport and Exercise Science and Sports Performance Analysis.
Mikael is also a part-time professional cricket coach and is currently involved in research projects with his local cricket institution as well as the England Cricket Board (ECB).
Mikael is also actively involved in research projects with other sporting institutions such as Norwich City Football Club and The London Lions.
Mikael has also developed a strong network of industry links with other national and international sporting organisations such as Ipswich Town Football Club, Colchester United Football Club, Ipswich Basketball, the Lahore Qalandars, the Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) and the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI).
Jamil, M., Kerruish, S., Mehta, S., Phatak, A., Memmert, D., & McRobert, A., (2023).
Identifying which factors impact bowling and batting performances during the “death” phase of an innings in international men’s 50-over cricket.
International Journal of Performance Analysis in Sport (Accepted March 2023, IN PRESS) DOI: 10.1080/24748668.2023.2193030
Jamil, M., Kerruish, S., Beato, M., & McErlain-Naylor, S.
The effects of bowling lines and lengths on the spatial distribution of successful power-hitting strokes in international men’s one-day and T20 cricket.
Journal of Sports Sciences , 00 (00), 1–9.
https://doi.org/10.1080/02640414.2022.2148074
Mehta, S., Phatak, A., Memmert, D., Kerruish, S., & Jamil, M.
Seam or swing?
Identifying the most effective type of bowling variation for fast bowlers in men’s international 50-over cricket.
Journal of Sports Sciences , 40 (14), 1587–1591.
https://doi.org/10.1080/02640414.2022.2094140
Phatak, A.
A., Mehta, S., Wieland, F.-G., Jamil, M., Connor, M., Bassek, M., & Memmert, D.
Context is key: normalization as a novel approach to sport specific preprocessing of KPI’s for match analysis in soccer.
Scientific Reports , 12 (1), 1–6.
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-022-05089-y
Jamil, M., Phatak, A., Mehta, S., Beato, M., Memmert, D., & Connor, M.
Using multiple machine learning algorithms to classify elite and sub-elite goalkeepers in professional men’s football.
Scientific Reports , 11 (1), 22703.
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-021-01187-5
Reynolds, J., Connor, M., Jamil, M., & Beato, M.
Quantifying and Comparing the Match Demands of U18, U23, and 1ST Team English Professional Soccer Players.
Frontiers in Physiology , 12 (July), 2017–2022.
https://doi.org/10.3389/fphys.2021.706451
Jamil, M., Harkness, A., Mehta, S., Phatak, A., Memmert, D., & Beato, M.
Investigating the impact age has on within-over and death bowling performances in international level 50-over cricket.
Research in Sports Medicine , 00 (00), 1–10.
https://doi.org/10.1080/15438627.2021.1954515
Jamil, M., Liu, H., Phatak, A., & Memmert, D.
An investigation identifying which key performance indicators influence the chances of promotion to the elite leagues in professional European football.
International Journal of Performance Analysis in Sport , 21 (04), 641–650.
https://doi.org/10.1080/24748668.2021.1933845
Jamil, M., & Kerruish, S., (2020) At what age are English Premier League players at their most productive?
A case study investigating the peak performance years of elite professional footballers, International Journal of Performance Analysis in Sport, DOI: 10.1080/24748668.2020.1833625
Jamil, M.
Where do the best technical football players in the world come from?
Analysing the association between technical proficiency and geographical origin in elite football.
Journal of Human Sport and Exercise , 17 (2), IN PRESS .
https://doi.org/10.14198/jhse.2022.172.02
Jamil, M., Littman, P., & Beato, M.
Investigating inter-league and inter-nation variations of key determinants for penalty success across European football.
International Journal of Performance Analysis in Sport , 20 (5), 892–907.
https://doi.org/10.1080/24748668.2020.1794720
Jamil, M., McErlain-Naylor, S.
A., & Beato, M.
Investigating the impact of the mid-season winter break on technical performance levels across European football – Does a break in play affect team momentum?
International Journal of Performance Analysis in Sport , 20 (3), 406–419.
https://doi.org/10.1080/24748668.2020.1753980
A case study assessing possession regain patterns in English Premier League Football.
International Journal of Performance Analysis in Sport , 19 (6), 1011–1025.
https://doi.org/10.1080/24748668.2019.1689752
Beato, M., Jamil, M., & Devereux, G.
Research in Sports Medicine , 26 (2), 244–250.
https://doi.org/10.1080/15438627.2018.1431532
The Reliability of Technical and Tactical Tagging Analysis Conducted by a Semi-Automatic VTS In Soccer.
Journal of Human Kinetics , 62 (1), 103–110.
https://doi.org/10.1515/hukin-2017-0162
Beato, M., & Jamil, M.
Intra-system reliability of SICS: video-tracking system (Digital.Stadium®) for performance analysis in soccer.
The Journal of Sports Medicine and Physical Fitness , 58 (6), 831–836.
https://doi.org/10.23736/S0022-4707.17.07267-X
Chapters in Books:
Team Production and Efficiency in Sports.
In P.
Downward, B.
Frick, B.
Humphreys, T.
Pawlowski, J.
Ruseski, & B.
Soebbing (Eds.) The Sage Handbook of Sports Economics (pp.
210-218).

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/get-in-touch/people-directory/learning-and-teaching/dr-edward-holmes:
Dr Edward Holmes is a Research Associate in the Directorate for Learning & Teaching, University of Suffolk.
Edward received his “BA Sociology (Hons)”, “MA Social Research” and “PhD Sociology” from the University of York.
His research interests are ethnomethodological and conversation analytic and involve the study of practical activities within ordinary and institutional settings.
Previously, Edward has held positions as a “Research Fellow” at the University of Southampton (School of Primary Care, Population Sciences & Medical Education), “Associate Lecturer” at the University of York (Department of Sociology), and “Teaching Assistant” at the University of Leeds (Department of Linguistics & Phonetics).
At the University of Suffolk, Edward is involved in institutional research and evaluation regarding access and participation.
Qualifications:
· PhD Sociology, University of York.
· MA Social Research, “Distinction”, University of York.
· BA Sociology (Hons), “First Class Honours (With Distinction)”, University of York.
Interests:
· Ethnomethodology
· Conversation Analysis
· Membership Categorization Analysis
Awards:
· 2015-2018 - “Economic and Social Research Council (+3) Studentship”, University of York.
· 2014-2015 - “Bridge Scholarship”, University of York

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/dr-rob-southall-edwards:
He completed his PhD in Sport & Exercise Science at the University of Essex; his research explored how exercise-induced muscle damage and the subsequent recovery may impact adherence to exercise.
Rob has also worked as an embedded researcher at Essex County Council, evaluating the Essex Local Delivery Pilot, one of Sport England’s twelve funded pilots, looking to take a whole systems approach to build healthier and more active communities.
Rob has developed a diverse set of research skills and experience while working across these sectors, including using a variety of methods to explore from a cellular level all the way along to behaviour change.
Rob has a passion for physical activity and how it can provide wide ranging benefits to the health & wellbeing.
This has led to him having interests in two main research areas: Firstly, in how whole systems approaches can be used to increase population levels of physical activity and the wider benefits this may provide for health & wellbeing.
Secondly, how individuals respond to conventional exercise activities and how this may influence engagement with further sport and physical activity.
Papers:
Conferences:

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/dr-abigail-webb:
Abigail completed her PhD at the University of Essex, where her research explored human facial emotion perception using psychophysical and behavioural approaches.
Between 2019 and 2021, Abigail was recipient of the Economic and Social Research Council’s (South East Network for Social Sciences) Postdoctoral Research Fellowship, at the University of Essex.
During this time, Abigail’s research focused on visual processing biases for facial displays of fear and exploring the efficacy of virtual reality as a platform for existing and potential audiences of theatre.
Abigail has two areas of research interest.
The first explores human facial emotion processing, with a particular focus on the social, evolutionary and/or low-level mechanisms that could influence biases for negative facial displays; how image properties naturally differ between faces; how they can be influenced by image processing techniques, and how perceptual biases are differently observed across experimental paradigms (backward-masking, binocular rivalry, saccadic eye movements, perceptual matching, image analysis).
As part of her role at the Institute of Health and Wellbeing, Abigail is exploring facial processing in clinical populations.
Abigail’s second area of research focuses on virtual reality theatre within the context of knowledge exchange and impact.
In 2020, Abigail was a recipient of the UKRI’s Impact Acceleration Award (2020) on a project that explored the use of virtual reality theatre as a remote social platform for pre-existing and underserved audiences in the arts.
Her research in this area addresses themes of technology acceptance, the digital divide, factors that influence social and community belonging, and accessible digitisation.
Early Career Researcher Network Representative
Fellowship of the Higher Education Academy

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/emily-o’neill:
Emily O’Neill is a Research Assistant within the Institute of Health and Wellbeing/Integrated Care Academy at the University of Suffolk.
Emily has a BSc in Biomedical Science and MSc in Neurosensory Sciences.
She completed the NHS Scientist Training Programme (STP) in Ophthalmology and Vision Science at Great Ormond Street Hospital for Children, specialising in Visual Electrophysiology.
While at the NHS she was awarded the GOSH NIHR BRC Internship and the NIHR Pre-doctoral Clinical Academic Fellowship (PCAF) to undertake research to improve retinal assessments for children with rare metabolic conditions.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/get-in-touch/people-directory/research/dr-ella-malloy:
Ella is a Research Associate (Health and Wellbeing) working on several research projects within the School of Health and Sports Sciences.
Dr Ella Malloy is an early-career sports science researcher; specifically, she is interested in how the leadership of coaches influences athletes’ psychological development and morality.
Her broader interests and expertise are in the areas of sports and exercise science and sport psychology.
Dr Malloy holds a Masters of Research and Doctor of Philosophy in Sport and Exercise Science from the University of Birmingham, through a scholarship from the Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC).
Dr Ella Malloy has taught several areas within sport and exercise science including:
Research interests lie in the areas of sport and exercise science, specifically sport psychology.
Previous research projects have looked at the impact of authentic leadership, demonstrated by coaches, on athletes’ psychological development and morality.
Currently working on several projects within the area of health and wellbeing as part of the School of Health and Sport Sciences.
Specifically, performing evaluations of a number of health and wellbeing projects using mixed methods designs in collaboration with integrative care systems across Norfolk and Suffolk.
Dr Ella Malloy has experience with collecting and analysing both qualitative and quantitative data, mixed-method designs, several data analysis methods including multilevel modelling
SEM, linear and logistic regression, correlations, t-tests, ANOVA, and MANOVA, as well as an understanding of several data analysis software including SPSS, AMOS, Gretl, MPLUS, and R.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/ruby-farr:
Ruby's expertise includes conducting complex research with a range of hard-to-reach participants.
Ruby has 11 years experience of designing, implementing and evaluating community development and co-production approaches with diverse and vulnerable populations across London.
This includes working closely with partners in primary care, local authority representatives, homeless shelters and a range of voluntary organisations; as well as supporting various training and knowledge-exchange initiatives across Europe.
She has played a vital role in the design and delivery of award-winning and internationally recognised community development frameworks.
Ruby is passionate about exploring the impact of the environment, social networks, and socioeconomic factors on human behaviour and happiness.
She has a degree in criminology, a Masters in public health, and passed her PhD exam in 2022.
Ruby’s PhD focused on the impacts of adverse childhood experiences on civic engagement and well-being across the life course.
While Ruby is predominantly a qualitative researcher, she has extensive experience of designing and implementing mixed-method evaluations including vast longitudinal surveys.
Ruby is passionate about adopting multi-disciplinary and collaborative research techniques to inform key decisions in policy and practice.
She has applied this passion in recent years to a large-scale European Commission project focused on exploring youth pathways into cybercrime, taking a leading role in the qualitative elements of the project.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/professor-darryl-newport:
He is adjunct Professor of Sustainable Materials Engineering at the University of East London.
He has a wide research interest, working in a wide range of interdisciplinary areas including areas relating to Infrastructure, resource management and the Built Environment with a focus on renewable and zero carbon energy solutions.
The overarching aim of his research is to develop practical decarbonised solutions which can be delivered rapidly to enable effective mitigation of climate change.
He has been highly successful in his field winning national and International multi-million-pound grants in a range of projects including FP7, Horizon 2020, ERDF and InnovateUk.
He is keen to develop collaborative opportunity with both internal and external academic colleagues and external agencies.
This can be achieved through joint PhD Supervision, interdisciplinary funding application and exploitation of his links to the Business Community.
This will enable swift and effective responses to current and future industry and societal challenges, improve collaboration between academic research and the business community, making sure that research outcome can be exploited for the benefit of Society.
Professor Newport is developing a number of living laboratory demonstrator solutions to enable research that will provide quantitative analytical models and tools in real-time to help governments, industry and the public make more informed decisions with respect to environmental sustainability.
One example is the work he is doing with the University of Suffolk EcoHouse Demonstrator a collaborative, research facility that aims to demonstrate the regional capacity for the design, build and occupation of sustainable homes.
The project will address two of the most pressing concerns that we face: climate change and the impact the construction industry has on quality low carbon affordable homes.
The Facility will be used as a ‘living laboratory’ and demonstrator by the Institute and a range of third-party innovation partners.
Adaptability is an important feature of the design, with space likely to be used by multiple researchers/ departments testing a variety of infrastructure, materials, methods and equipment.
The Suffolk Sustainability Institute will contribute to, and lead on, quality research, training, and innovation towards effective action on climate change, unsustainable use of resources and the environment.
Khalid, Muhammad Umar, Bashir, M.
and Newport, D.
2017.
Development of a Building Information Modelling (BIM)-Based Real-Time Data Integration System Using a Building Management System (BMS).
in: Building Information Modelling, Building Performance, Design and Smart Construction.
Springer International Publishing.
93-104
Ayati, Bamdad, Shishkin, Andrei and Newport, D.
2016.
Production of Clay Coated Lightweight Fill Materials From Air Pollution Control residues (APCR).
in: International Sustainable Ecological Engineering Design for Society (SEEDS) Conference 2016 Proceedings.
LSI Publishing, pp.
253-263
Journal Articles:
Shishkin, A., Aquedal, H., Goel, G., Peculevica, J., Newport, D.
and Ozolins, J.
2020.
Influence of waste glass in the foaming process of open cell porous ceramic as filtration media for industrial wastewater.
Journal of Cleaner Production.
282 (Art.
124546).
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2020.124546
Ayati, B., Molineux, C., Newport, D., and Cheeseman, Christopher.
2018.
Manufacture and performance of lightweight aggregate from waste drill cuttings.
208, pp.
252-260.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2018.10.134
Ayati, B., Ferrándiz-Mas, Veronica, Newport, D.
and Cheeseman, Christopher.
Use of clay in the manufacture of lightweight aggregate.
Construction and Building Materials.
162, pp.124-131.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.conbuildmat.2017.12.018
Collier, Marcus J, Connop, S., Foley, Karen, Nedović-Budić, Zorica, Newport, D., Corcoran, Aoife, Crowe, Philip, Dunne, Louise, de Moel, Hans, Kampelmann, Stephan, McQuaid, Siobhán, Schwarz von Raumer, Hans-Georg, Slaev Aleksander, Stumpp, Eva-maria, Van den Abeele, Patrick and Vandergert, Paula.
Urban transformation with TURAS open innovations; opportunities for transitioning through transdisciplinarity.
Current Opinion in Environmental Sustainability.
22, pp.
57-62.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cosust.2017.04.005
Molineux, C., Gange, Alan C.
Using soil microbial inoculations to enhance substrate performance on extensive green roofs.
Science of the Total Environment.
580, pp.846-856.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scitotenv.2016.12.031
Connop, S., Vandergert, P., Eisenberg, Collier, Marcus J., Nash, Caroline, Clough, Jack and Newport, D.
Renaturing cities using a regionally-focussed biodiversity-led multifunctional benefits approach to urban green infrastructure.
Environmental Science & Policy.
62 (Aug.), pp.99-111.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.envsci.2016.01.013
Latif, Eshrar, Tucker, Simon, Ciupala, A., Wijeyesekera, Devapriva, Chitral, Newport, D.
and Pruteanu, Marian 2016.
Quasi steady state and dynamic hygrothermal performance of fibrous Hemp and Stone Wool insulations: Two innovative laboratory based investigations.
Building and Environment.
95, pp.391-404.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.buildenv.2015.10.006
Vandergert, P., Collier, Marcus, Kamplemann, Stephen and Newport, D.
2015.
Blending adaptive governance and institutional theory to explore urban resilience and sustainability strategies in the Rome Metropolitan Area, Italy.
International Journal of Urban Sustainable Development.
Molineux, C., Newport, D., Ayati, Bamdad, Wang, Chuang, Connop, S.
and Green, Jon E.
2015 Bauxite residue (Red mud) as a pulverised fuel ash substitute in the manufacture of lightweight aggregate.
112 (1), pp.401-408.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2015.09.024
Nash, C, Clough, J., Gedge, D., Lindsay, R., Newport, D., Ciupala, A.
and Connop, S.
Initial insights on the biodiversity potential of biosolar roofs: A London Olympic Park green roof case study.
Israel Journal of Ecology and Evolution; special issue “Integrating ecology into green roof research”.
62 (1-2), pp.74-87.
https://doi.org/10.1080/15659801.2015.1045791
Molineaux, C., Gange, Alan C., Connop, S.
Using recycled aggregates in green roof substrates for plant diversity.
Ecological Engineering.
82 (Sep.), pp.596-604.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ecoleng.2015.05.036
Latif, Eshrar, Ciupala, A., Tucker, Simon, Wijeyesekera, Devapriva Chitral and Newport, D.
Hygrothermal performance of wood-hemp insulation in timber frame wall panels with and without a vapour barrier.
92, pp.
122-134.
Molineux, C., Gange, Alan, Connop, S.
Are microbial communities in green roof substrates comparable to those in post-industrial sites?- a preliminary study.
Urban Ecosystems.
18 (4), pp.1245-1260.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s11252-015-0450-z
Latif, Eshrar, Tucker, Simon, Ciupala, A., Wijeyesekera, Devaprive Chitral and Newport, D.
2014.
Hygric properties of hemp bio-insulations with differing compositions.
66, pp.702-711.
Collier, Marcus J., Nedović-Budić, Zorica, Aerts, Jeroen, Connop, S., Foley, Dermot, Foley, Karen, Newport, D., McQuaid, Siobhán, Slaev, Aleksander and Verburg, Peter 2013.
Transitioning to resilience and sustainability in urban communities.
Cities.
Conference papers:
Vandergert, P., Jordan, S., Newport, D.
and Sandland, S.
Impact of Public Charging Infrastructure on the Adoption of Electric Vehicles in London.
International Conference of Sustainable Ecological Engineering Design for Society (SEEDS) 2019.
University of Suffolk, Ipswich, UK 11-12 Sep 2019 Springer International Publishing.
pp.327-333.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-44381-8_25
Taher, H., Elsharkawy, H.
2019.
The Influence of Urban Green Systems on the Urban Heat Island Effect in London.
Sustainable Built Environment Conference 2019 Wales: Policy to Practice.
Cardiff, Wales 24-25 Sep 2019 IOP Publishing Ltd.
https://doi.org/10.1088/1755-1315/329/1/012046
Latif, E, Rhydwen, G R, Wijeyesekera, D.Chitral, Tucker, Simon, Ciupala, A.
2011.
Thermal conductivity of building materials: an overview of its determination.
Advances in Computing and Technology.
University of East London, London Jan 2011 London University of East London, School of Architecture Computing and Engineering.
Latif, E., Wijeyesekera, D.Chitral, Newport, D.
and Tucker, Simon 2010.
Potential for research on hemp insulation in the UK construction sector.
Proceedings of Advances in Computing and Technology, (AC&T) The School of Computing and Technology 5th Annual Conference.
University of East London, pp.143-150.
Project reports and other publications:
Clough, J.
Renfrew Close Rain gardens – Year two monitoring and project evaluation report, May 2017.
University of East London.
Connop, S., Clough, J., Borland, T.
Water attenuation performance of the Museum of London green roof.
Connop, S., Gedge, Dusty, Kadas, Gyongyver, Nash, Caroline, Owczareck, Kinga and Newport, D.
2013.
TURAS green roof design guidelines: Maximising ecosystem service provision through regional design for biodiversity.
London University of East London.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/alison-pooley:
Alison leads the Sustainable Healthy Communities theme within the Suffolk Sustainability Institute.
Alison has extensive experience within higher education, particularly within architecture and the built environment, where she has led and developed undergraduate and postgraduate courses.
Alison came to University of Suffolk in 2022 from the Centre for Alternative Technology, Machynlleth, Wales, where she first started teaching in 2003 on their MSc programmes, and where she developed a unique Masters in Architecture (MArch) which has been running since 2008.
Before starting her academic career, Alison was in architectural practice for several years, prior to which she worked as a housing officer in East London.
Alison completed her PhD exploring learning, transformation, and environmental responsibility with the UK construction industry at the Welsh School of Architecture, and her research preoccupations remain focused on healthy, resilient communities, and responding to the environmental imperative through transforming practice.
Her current research is focused on equity within housing, including housing for our ageing population, issues faced within the private rented sector and the challenges of retrofitting for a more resilient future.
Alison’s research brings her professional practice full circle to address the inequalities in housing supply and performance.
As well as having an active research profile, Alison is a trustee of a Suffolk based housing charity.
Alison retains her links with Wales as a guest tutor at the Centre for Alternative Technology and the Welsh School of Architecture, and supervises PhD students across institutes on a range of built environment themes, and is an external examiner at the Mackintosh School of Architecture.
PhD, Cardiff University
PG Cert Learning and Teaching in Higher Education
Professional Diploma in Architecture (RIBA Part 2 exemption)
BSc (Hons) Architecture (RIBA Part 1 exemption)
Teaching Activities
M.Arch in Sustainable Architecture at the Centre for Alternative Technology
PhD Supervision (titles only)
@ University of Suffolk
Integration of citizen science in environmental diplomacy for sustainable cities: a comparative study (completion 2027)
Great Women’s Houses: Building Becoming in the Lives and Works of Woolf, Du Maurier, Christie, and Winn (completion 2027)
@ Anglia Ruskin University
An exploration into a primary school’s experiences and actions in addressing energy management and sustainability awareness (completion 2024)
Community-driven, Nature-based design framework for the    regeneration of neglected public spaces in urban environments (completed 2024)
Creating community from space: the role of everyday mutuality in future cities (completion 2024)
How effective is the New Anglia Local Enterprise Partnerships Building Growth Sector in delivering the growth and housing targets of the New Anglia LEP Strategic Economic Plan?
(completion 2025)
@ Ion Mincu University, Romania
Creating community from space: the role of everyday mutuality in future cities (completion 2025)
Reducing embodied carbon: the role of nanotechnology in developing new materials (completion 2025)
Selected recent publications/conferences:
Callahan, E., Murtagh, N., Pannell, J.
& Pooley, A.
(2024) The Knowledge Hub on Resilience in Almshouse Communities.
https://www.ustsc.org.uk/arc-for-the-future
Osei, G., F.
Pascale, N.
Delle-Odeleye and A.
Pooley (2022).
Green Infrastructure.
The Palgrave Encyclopedia of Urban and Regional Futures .
Cham, Springer International Publishing : 1-10 [online] https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-51812-7_260-1
Pannell, J.
and Pooley , A.
Resilience and Community: models of housing for an ageing population .
Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors Research Trust.
RICS [online] https://www.rics.org/uk/news-insight/research/research-reports/almshouses-a-model-of-community-housing-for-an-ageing-populatio
Osei, G., Pooley , A and Pascale, F and Delle-Odeleye, N (2020) Stakeholder engagement in nature-based public space design: sustainable regeneration of urban environments.
In: Alvares, J.
and Goncalves, J.C.S.
(Eds) Planning Post Carbon Cities .
Proceedings from the 35 th PLEA International Conference of Passive and Low Energy Architecture, 1-3 September 2020, Coruna, Spain [online] https://ruc.udc.es/dspace/bitstream/handle/2183/26695/PLEA_2020_Planning%20Post%20Carbon%20Cities_Proc_Vol_1.pdf?sequence=3&isAllowed=y
Osei, G., Pascale, F, Pooley , A and Delle-Odeleye, N (2020) A Community-Driven Nature-Based Design Framework for the Regeneration of Neglected Urban Public Spaces.
In: Sustainable Ecological Engineering Design .
Selected Proceedings from the International Conference of Sustainable Ecological Engineering Design for Society (SEEDS) 2019.
Springer, Cham, pp.
65-81 [online] https://www.springer.com/gp/book/9783030443801
Pooley , A., and Francis, S.A.
(2020) The future almshouse: what can be learnt from re-interpreting a past.
In: 17 th International Conference of the Architectural and Humanities Research Association, 19-21 November 2020, Nottingham, UK [online] https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/conference/fac-eng/ahra-2020/index2.aspx
Luciano, A., Pascale, F., Polverino, F.
(2020) Measuring Age-Friendly Housing: A Framework.
Sustainability , 12 (3).
p.
848.
[online] https://www.mdpi.com/2071-1050/12/3/848

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/mark-bowler:
Mark works on wildlife distributions and the effects that human activity has on animal populations.
He is also active in science communication and conservation.
Current projects include: the spatial ecology of primates and other Amazonian mammals, bioacoustic wildlife surveys, camera trap surveys, bat activity in suburban and agricultural landscapes.
Recent projects in the Peruvian Amazon include; camera trapping in rainforest canopies to monitor arboreal wildlife populations, remote audio monitoring for gunshots and wildlife, GPS tracking indigenous hunters, monitoring the effects of logging and hunting on wildlife populations, and tracking the expansion of giant otter populations.
Mark also works on community conservation projects in the Amazon rainforest, working with local people to find sustainable solutions to logging and reducing hunting of vulnerable species.
Full Publication List

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/marco-spada:
Marco studied architecture in Italy and the UK (BSc, MSc, PhD, SFHEA).
He earned his PhD in 2016 from Sapienza University of Rome with a thesis on the relationship between memory and design in the rehabilitation of industrial plants.
Marco specialises in urban narrative and complex sustainability, having studied at Roma Tre University, the University of Liverpool, and the Gdańsk University of Technology.
He carried out research activities in Rome, Tuscany, Poland, Kenya and the United Kingdom.
Specialised in urban narrativity, sustainability and circular economy, he worked in Milan as Project Manager and Design Consultant.
Last year, Marco has also obtained a Horizon Grant [https://cordis.europa.eu/project/id/101095119] to study the impact of steel mills on local communities.
Thanks to this funding, he was able to conduct field research, exploring how the steel industry has influenced the urban development of some cities in the UK and analysing the relationship between industrial plants and the local communities.
His research focuses on the interaction between the built environment and culture, seeking to explore how urban narratives can contribute to creating more sustainable and inclusive cities.
In particular, Marco is interested in the role of architecture in the recovery and redevelopment of degraded urban fabrics, studying the impact of industrial activities on the built environment and the lives of local communities.
In 2018, Marco won the award for best young architecture critic, confirming the value of his research and publications.
His work has been presented at numerous international conferences and published in important scientific journals.
Among his most recent research projects, Marco is writing a book on Gordon Cullen, the English urbanist and author of the famous Townscape, published in 1961.
In this text, Cullen proposed a new vision of the city based on the idea of the “urban landscape”, emphasizing the importance of considering the built environment as a set of visual and sensory elements that contribute to defining the identity and quality of life of the city.
Marco is working on a critical reinterpretation of Cullen’s text, seeking to identify the implications of his vision for contemporary architecture and urban planning practices.
Additionally, he has published articles on the dome of the Church of Sant’Ignazio di Loyola in Rome and the Olivetti offices in the UK designed by Ted Cullinan in 1972/73.
Spada, M.
2018, Industryscape.
Memoria e progetto nel recupero dei mega impianti industriali , Aracne, Rome.
Istituto Superiore di Sanita 2023, a toolkit for dynaMic health Impact analysiS to predicT disability-Related costs in the Aging population based on three case studies of steeL-industry exposed areas in europe, HORIZON-HLTH-2022-ENVHLTH-04 edn, European Commission, EU.
2022a, “Between Stirling and Olivetti: Ted Cullinan’s Workplaces Design in the UK”, Architecture, vol.
2, no.
2, pp.
196-213.
2022b, “A Tale of Three Domes: The Un-Realized cupola of St Ignatius of Loyola in Roma”, Arts, vol.
11, no.
2014, “Shaping Ideal Cities: From Palmanova and Grammichele towards a Flow-based Model of Urban Utopia”, SPACES AND FLOWS: International Conference on Urban and ExtraUrban StudiesCentre for Urban Studies - CREA, Amsterdam, 23rd November 2014.
& Bigiotti, S.
2018, “Peri-urban agriculture and cultural heritage.
The public potential of the in-between areas”, The Journal of Public Space, vol.
51-62.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/hannah-steventon:
Hannah is a Research Fellow at University of Suffolk in the Suffolk Sustainability Institute, where she leads on 'Green Infrastructure' (one of the three key research themes within the Institute) and works on digital innovation in public sector infrastructure, natural systems including our local air quality, and rural economies.
She has wide interests in environmental sensing and data analysis.
Hannah has worked at University of Suffolk since 2019 on the DfT-funded Smarter Suffolk project with Suffolk County Council, BT and other partners.
Smarter Suffolk built a county-wide Live Lab of thousands of Internet of Things (IoT) sensors, measuring environmental and traffic conditions across the county to showcase competing innovative technologies.
Big Data sets are accumulated for analytics applied to a range of Local Authority services.
Existing and new communications networks are enabling the IoT deployment, in part using the existing powered lighting column infrastructure.
Initially a hydrogeologist, in her early career Hannah led regeneration projects for large civil engineering firms to assess and remediate contaminated land.
Her professional experience includes sophisticated software analysis and modelling of large data sets, site project management of civil contractors, and laboratory chemical analysis.
Her doctoral research showed how natural organic matter affects the movement of contaminants through the ground, and she taught Hydrogeology and Pollution at Birkbeck, University of London.
In recent years, as a computing educator and STEM Ambassador, Hannah taught hundreds of children coding, electronics and control systems, using the Raspberry Pi, Arduino, Crumble and Micro:Bit.
Projects have included running children’s code on the International Space Station; developing an IoT device to win a major national competition; robots in school corridors; and a large class of 10 year olds soldering self-built games consoles.
Hannah holds a MA in Natural Sciences from the University of Cambridge, and an MSc and PhD in Hydrogeology from University College London.
She is a Chartered Geologist and Fellow of the Geological Society, and a Raspberry Pi Certified Educator.
Lecturer: Introduction to Data Science and Artificial Intelligence (Year 1, BSc(Hons) Computer Science)
Micro-placement Supervisor: University of Suffolk Smart House projects
PhD Supervision
Integration of citizen science in environmental governance (completion 2026)
Facilitating long-term, large-scale bioacoustics biodiversity monitoring using citizen science (completion 2027)

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/get-in-touch/people-directory/school-of-health-sciences-and-society/hei-sung:
Hei is a lecturer in wildlife and conservation at the School of Health, Sciences and Society, joining in August 2023.
Previously, he served as an Assistant Professor at Lingnan University in Hong Kong.
He holds a PhD from the University of Hong Kong.
As a conservation biologist, his research goal is to conserve wild animals by quantifying the impacts of human activities on endangered species and formulating practical conservation measures.
Hei teaches courses in the BSc (Hons) Wildlife, Ecology, and Conservation Science Programme.
In his leisure time, he has a passion for sports, particularly basketball and football.
He also enjoys watching and photographing wildlife, as well as listening to and making music.
Hei's research interests primarily focus on the conservation and ecology of wild animals, with a specific emphasis on amphibians, birds, and reptiles in Southeast Asia.
Here are some selected research projects that he is leading: Ecology and conservation of Asian freshwater turtles: This project aims to address the severe decline of Asian turtle populations, largely driven by the food and pet markets.
Field surveys have been conducted to assess the current status of endangered freshwater turtles in Hong Kong.
Ecological data, including habitat use, diet, reproductive biology, and disease ecology, have been collected to inform conservation actions.
Additionally, efforts are being made to enhance in-situ enforcement against illegal hunting, such as utilizing cameras to detect and deter illegal turtle hunters.
Illegal trade of amphibians and reptiles: Many amphibians and reptiles face threats from illegal wildlife trade.
To combat this issue, long-term wildlife trade data is being collected from Hong Kong, a prominent global wildlife trade hub.
The research aims to understand the scale, trends, and underlying factors of the trade.
Further, Hei's research team is developing wildlife forensic tools to differentiate between wild and captive turtles, thereby reinforcing turtle trade enforcement.
Responses of birds to environmental change: In collaboration with the Hong Kong Bird Watching Society, Hei is investigating the impacts of various environmental changes, including climatic change and land-use changes, on bird populations in South China.
This research aims to understand how birds are affected by these changes and will provide valuable insights for effective conservation measures and habitat management practices.
Taxonomy of herpetofauna in South China: Hei's research team is employing morphological, genetic, and acoustic analysis to uncover the often overlooked diversity of herpetofauna (amphibians and reptiles) in South China.
By resolving the taxonomy of these species, crucial information will be obtained for their effective conservation, particularly for those with limited distributions.
Selected Publications: Ecology and conservation of Asian freshwater turtles Sung YH, Liew JH, Chan HK, Lee WH, Wong BHF, Dingle C, Karraker NE, Spencer R & Fong JJ.
2021.
Assessing the diet of the endangered Beale’s eyed turtle (Sacalia bealei) using faecal content and stable isotope analyses: implications for conservation.
Aquatic Conservation: Marine and Freshwater Ecosystems.
Sung YH, Karraker NE & Hau BCH.
Demographic evidence of illegal harvesting of an endangered Asian turtle.
Conservation Biology.
27:1421–1428.
Illegal trade of amphibians and reptiles Sung YH, Lee WH, Leung FKW & Fong JJ.
Prevalence of illegal turtle trade on social media and implications for wildlife trade monitoring.
Biological Conservation 261:109245.
Sung YH & Fong JJ.
Assessing consumer trends and illegal activity by monitoring the online wildlife trade.
Biological Conservation 227:219-225.
Responses of birds to environmental change Sung YH, Pang CC, Li TCH, Wong PPY & Yu YT.
Ecological correlates of 20-year population trends of wintering waterbirds in Deep Bay, South China.
Frontiers in Ecology and Evolution 9:658084.
Sung YH, Tse IWL & Yu YT.
Population trends of the black-faced spoonbill Platalea minor: analysis of data from international synchronized censuses.
Bird Conservation International 28:157–167.
Taxonomy of herpetofauna in south China Sung YH, Lee WH, Ng HN, Zhang Y & Yang JH.
A new species of Hemiphyllodactylus (Squamata: Gekkonidae) from Hong Kong.
Zootaxa 4392:361–373.
Sung YH, Hu P, Wang J, Liu HJ & Wang YY.
A new species of Amolops (Anura: Ranidae) from southern China.
Zootaxa.
4170:525–538.
He is a member of the IUCN Species Survival Commission Tortoises and Freshwater Turtles Specialist Group.
Additionally, he serves as an associate editor for the journals Aquatic Invasions, Frontiers in Ecology and Evolution, BioInvasions Records, and Herpetological Conservation and Biology.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/professor-nicholas-caldwell:
He is also currently Associate Dean (Research and Knowledge Exchange) for the School of Business, Arts, Social Sciences and Technology.
Nicholas has been involved in undergraduate teaching for more than two decades.
At Cambridge, he supervised undergraduate computer science and engineering students on courses including algorithms, artificial intelligence, computer architecture, computer hardware, databases, natural language processing, networks, operating systems, programming languages, and software engineering.
At the University of Suffolk, he has taught modules on software engineering, AI/data science, distributed systems (cloud computing), and research skills, as well as supervising final-year projects.
He is an active PhD supervisor.
Nicolas is actively involved in research, collaborating with academics in the UK, Europe, the Americas, Asia, Africa and Australia.
His research interests are artificial intelligence, engineering change management, engineering design, information systems,  knowledge management, process modelling (design and business), and scanning electron microscopy.
He is a PhD supervisor for both the University of Cambridge in engineering design and for the University of Suffolk with current students involved in research on artificial intelligence, cyber security, data analytics, human-computer interaction, and software engineering.
He is always happy to consider applications for postgraduate research (PhD) in any of these areas.
Nicholas is heavily involved in the Digital Futures Institute at the University of Suffolk, and the leader of the Technological Enablers and Social Media theme for the Global Knowledge Research Network consortium.
He was Suffolk's Principal Investigator for the InnovateUK-funded "100CC" project (consortium led by Cisco).
This work assisted the SME partners in improving their software and hardware solutions aimed at combating the social isolation and lack of digital skills of elderly and vulnerable people.
Consequently, both Bronze Software Labs and GDS Digital were able to deploy their products to support a number of local government authorities in assisting vulnerable citizens in accessing essential services during the current pandemic.
He was Suffolk’s Principal Investigator on the Smarter Suffolk: A Live Lab consortium project, which was part of a national initiative of the Association of Directors of Environment, Economy, Planning and Transport’s (ADEPT) SMART Places Live Lab, funded by the Department of Transport.
The aim was to undertake a variety of scientifically rigorous trials utilising Internet of Things (IoT) sensors, and through analysis of the resulting rich and large datasets of environmental, traffic and other conditions, determine the validity of the business cases and inform strategic adoption across the UK.
In addition, he is heavily involved in business engagement and enterprise activities, providing consultancy for regional SMEs, and was “knowledge base” for a Knowledge Transfer Partnership in conjunction with Coderus, and one with Matrixx.
From 1998 to 2013, Nicholas was a Research Associate at the Department of Engineering within the University of Cambridge, undertaking research in multiple areas with a diverse set of research groups.
His initial research was a continuation of his work in applied artificial intelligence and microscopy, jointly with Dr David Holburn and Bernie Breton, with funding from LEO Electron Microscopy (now Carl Zeiss Microscopy) and the Isaac Newton Trust.
From 1998 to 2000, he also worked with the Engineering Design Centre to develop web-based tools, such as WebCADET, a decision support and knowledge management system) to support design research.
In this, he was assisting Professor Paul Rodgers (formerly of the Engineering Design Centre, now Professor of Design at Lancaster University) and Dr Avon Huxor (then at the University of Middlesex).
From January 2006 to June 2013, Nicholas was an active member of the Engineering Design Centre at the University of Cambridge.
He worked on the EPSRC Grand Challenge Knowledge & Information Management Through-Life (KIM) project, with a key result being the development of a set of principles for through-life management of engineering information, and the software implementation of Design Structure Matrices for the Cambridge Advanced Modeller platform.
He was heavily involved in the design and development of the first Inclusive Design Toolkit website.
In change management research, Nicholas was part of the NECTISE consortium with BAE Systems, designing and implementing the Change Prediction Method algorithms and visualisations in the Cambridge Advanced Modeller platform.
In a joint project with BP and MIT, he conducted research to benchmark existing BP change management policies, providing a set of recommendations for adoption across multiple business units, and analysed historical change data to identify effective indicators for predicting project success and failure.
In the EU Framework Programme 7 project, CRESCENDO, led by Airbus, his work focused on applying change prediction techniques to workflows and modelling those design processes within the context of a simulation factory of federated tools and models for next-generation aircraft design.
His final piece of research at Cambridge was to develop a set of healthcare readiness levels for assessing the maturity of innovations in healthcare.
Nicholas holds a BA in Computer Science and a PhD in Engineering, both from the University of Cambridge.
His doctoral thesis was entitled "Knowledge-Based Engineering for the Scanning Electron Microscope".
His publications can be found via ORCID https://orcid.org/0000-0003-0597-0113
Nicholas is a Fellow of the Royal Microscopical Society, a Senior Fellow of the Higher Education Academy, a Fellow of the British Computer Society, a Chartered Engineer, and a Chartered IT Professional.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/abbie-millett:
Dr Abbie Millett is the Course Leader for MSc Psychology (Conversion) and is a Senior Lecturer in Psychology for the School of Health, Science and Society, having joined the team in October 2019.
She is an experienced educator having taught in further education at Suffolk New College as a Secondary Teacher and higher education at the University of Essex as a Graduate Laboratory Assistant.
Abbie is currently applying for Senior Fellowship of the Higher Education Academy.
Her teaching ethos is that all knowledge is accessible, as long as both the facilitator and student are equipped with the right tools and expertise.
Abbie is an expert in Cognitive and Developmental Psychology with a focus on cognitive development, specifically in terms of Theory of Mind and perspective taking.
Her research explores whether individuals do, and to what extent, assume the visual perspective of others.
The current aim of Abbie’s research is to critically assess the extent to which individuals assume the perspective of others, as well as explore what factors may influence this process.
Most recently, together with her PhD Supervisor, Abbie has developed an alternative theory to the previously concluded so-called spontaneous perspective taking and has since published two theoretical discussions on what precisely is perspective taking.
Alongside her main research aim, Abbie has also begun to explore the extent that cognitive psychology can be applied to magic, the validity of trypophobia as a potential registered phobia and the effects of daytime sleepiness within the student population.
Abbie contributes on the following modules:
Level 4
Level 5
Level 6
Cognitive and Developmental Psychology, focusing on Theory of Mind, Perspective Taking, Automaticity, Visual/Social Attention, Mental Imagery/Rotation and Gaze Following/Cuing.
However, also interested and researching into Phobias, specifically Arachnophobia and Trypophobia and the influence of cognition on magic tricks.
A examination of spontaneous visual perspective taking
The meme theory of trypophobia
Cognitive applications to magic tricks
The effect of daytime sleepiness and general causality oreitnation on the well being of higher education students
Experimental Techniques/Expertise: Behavioural measures, including reaction time, self-reported measures and Eye-Tracking.
Statistical and Experimental Software/Hardware: Bayesian Analysis, SPSS, Qualtrics, SuperLab 5, EyeLink 1000, Experiment Builder, Data Viewer, JASP, Millisecond Inquisit, R, R Studio, GPower, DAZStudio, Adobe Photoshop.
Selected publications (see ORCID ID: 0000-0003-1382-9240 for full listing)
Cole, G.
G., Millett, A.
C., & Juanchich, M.
G.
(In Preparation).
The meme theory of Trypophobia.
Journal of Abnormal Psychology .
C., Samuel, S., & Eacott, M.
Perspective-taking: in search of a theory.
Vision , 4 (2), 30.
Millett, A.
C., D’Souza, A.
D., & Cole, G.
Attribution of vision and knowledge in ‘spontaneous perspective taking’.
Psychological research , 84 (6), 1758-1765.
G., & Millett, A.
C .
The closing of the theory of mind: A critique of perspective-taking.
Psychonomic bulletin & review , 26 (6), 1787-1802.
Millett, A., & Cole, G.
(2019, March).
Exploring the Effects of 'Validity 'and Visual Barriers Using the Ambiguous Number Paradigm Within Spontaneous Perspective Taking.
In PERCEPTION (Vol.
48, No.
3, pp.
268-268).
1 OLIVERS YARD, 55 CITY ROAD, LONDON EC1Y 1SP, ENGLAND: SAGE PUBLICATIONS LTD.
Kuhn, G., Vacaityte, I., D'Souza, A.
D., Millett, A.
C ., & Cole, G.
Mental states modulate gaze following, but not automatically.
Cognition , 180 , 1-9.
Atkinson, M.
A., Millett, A.
C ., Doneva, S.
P., Simpson, A., & Cole, G.
How social is social inhibition of return?
Attention, Perception, & Psychophysics , 80 (8), 1892-1903
C., & Cole, G.
What is the importance of first fixation, validity, SOAs and abstract directional cues in spontaneous visual perspective taking?
Paper presented as part of the poster presentation for Psychonomic Society 61st Annual Meeting, Online.
C., D’Souza, A, D.
& Cole, G.
Attribution of vision and knowledge in ‘spontaneous perspective taking, Paper presented at the poster presentation for Experimental Psychology Society (EPS) Spring Meeting, Online.
Does validity and visual barriers prevent spontaneous perspective taking?
Paper presented at the poster presentation for Experimental Psychology Society (EPS) Spring Meeting, University of Manchester.
Exploring the effects of ‘validity’ and visual barriers using the ambiguous number paradigm within spontaneous perspective taking, Paper presented at the poster presentation for Applied Vision Association (AVA) Christmas 2018 Meeting, University of Birkbeck.
Is Spontaneous Perspective Taking a phenomenon based on Theory of Mind or an extension of knowledge attribution and mental rotation?
Presentation at the Postgraduate Research Conference, University of Essex.
What the avatar’s eye tells the observer’s brain: A critique of spontaneous perspective taking .
Presentation at Psychonomic Society, New Orleans.
C., Kuhn, G., Vacaityte, I., D'Souza, A.
Mental states modulates gaze following, but not automatically.
Paper presented at the poster presentation for Applied Vision Association (AVA) Spring 2018 Meeting and AGM, University of Bradford.
Spontaneous Perspective Taking: A phenomenon based upon Theory of Mind or an inconclusive extension of Knowledge Attribution and Mental Rotation , presentation at the Postgraduate Research Conference, University of Essex.
& Millett, A.
The closing of the Theory of Mind: Attribution of vision and knowledge in ‘automatic perspective taking’ , presentation at the workshop on Reflective attentional shift: biologically or social determined, University of Sheffield.
Awards
C ., D’Souza, A, D.
President’s Commendation Poster Award at Experimental Psychology Society (EPS) Spring Meeting , University of Manchester.
Abbie is the Psychology Social Media Champion.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/adam-clayden:
Adam Clayden received his PhD from University of Edinburgh (2019) and was based in both the School of Informatics and the School of Philosophy, Psychology and Language Sciences, investigating the role of foveal vision in static and dynamic environments.
His previous degree is a BSc with honours in Computer Gaming Technology from Anglia Ruskin University (2014).
He worked as an indie game developer, as well as in Research & Development within the games industry, before returning at age 24 in 2017 to academia as possibly the youngest senior lecturer in the UK, to first lead game development at University of Sunderland, before turning to lead BSc (Hons) Games Development at University of Suffolk where he specialises in programming within languages such as C#, development within Unity, rapid prototyping and games research methods.
Alongside Adam's teaching and research responsibilities, he remains active in industry as a UI/UX Designer on the Omega Dueling Simulator for the Yu-Gi-Oh!
Trading Card Game.
Other areas of activity include Adam being a reviewer for academic journals and conferences, notably the Foundations of Digital Games Conference.
Adam is also a site organiser for the Global Game Jam team that is held annually at the university.
His research interests are within the realm of Vision, Game Science and HCI.
The main topics of his recent research are:
Grants Awarded:
Guest lectures:
Thesis:
Selected Publications:

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/adnane-ez-zizi:
Dr Adnane Ez-zizi is a Senior Lecturer in Artificial Intelligence and Course Leader for the MSc Data Science and Artificial Intelligence at the School of Business, Arts, Social Sciences and Technology.
He holds a PhD in Experimental Psychology from the University of Bristol, where he was part of a large interdisciplinary research group that brought together psychologists, mathematicians, computer scientists and biologists to study human and animal decision making.
He also obtained an MRes in Statistics from the University of Pierre et Marie Curie (now Sorbonne University), an MSc in Random modelling from the University of Paris Diderot and a BSc in Statistical techniques from the University of Paris Descartes.
Adnane has recently completed a Postgraduate Certificate in Academic Practice and has become Fellow of Higher Education Academy.
Before joining the University of Suffolk, Adnane worked at the University of Birmingham as a Research Associate in Machine learning within another large interdisciplinary project that combines linguistics, psychology, computer science and statistics to better understand language learning and to improve language teaching.
He also served as a Senior Teaching Associate at the University of Bristol for one year, where he taught statistics to undergraduate students.
At the University of Suffolk, Adnane has led and taught various modules, including:
Adnane’s research work is interdisciplinary in nature, where he has resorted to experimental, statistical, machine learning and natural language processing methods to analyse various types of data.
His research interests include:
Adnane has supervised 25 undergraduate and postgraduate final projects in topics related to AI and data science.
He is looking to take on self-funded PhD students with interest in a topic related to the above areas or AI/data science in general.
Prospective students should have strong skills in programming and/or mathematics (or be willing to upskill themselves) and a genuine interest in research.
Interested students should contact Adnane directly with specific research ideas (please do not send generic emails).
Madamidola, O., Ngobigha, F., and Ez-zizi, A.
Detecting unseen obfuscated malware variants: A lightweight and interpretable machine learning approach.
Intelligent Systems with Applications, 25, 200472 .
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.iswa.2024.200472 .
Adeyemi, T.O., Ngobigha, F., and Ez-zizi, A.
Future-proofed intrusion detection for Internet-of-things with machine learning.
In 4th IEEE International Conference on AI in Cybersecurity (ICAIC) .
https://doi.org/10.1109/ICAIC63015.2025.10848845 .
Jamil, M., Manthorpe, S., MacDonald, D., and Ez-zizi, A.
An examination of how fielding outcomes in international and franchise T20 and 50-over cricket are associated with bowling performances and field positions.
Performance Analysis in Sport , 1-16.
https://doi.org/10.1080/24748668.2025.2455276 .
Ez-zizi, A.
, Divjak, D., and Milin, P.
Error-correction mechanisms in language learning: modeling individuals.
Language Learning , 74(1), 41-77.
https://doi.org/10.1111/lang.12569 .
, Farrell, S., Leslie, D., Malhotra, G., and Ludwig, C.
Reinforcement learning under uncertainty: expected versus unexpected uncertainty and state versus reward uncertainty.
Computational Brain & Behavior , 6(4), 626-650.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s42113-022-00165-y .
Romain, L.
*, Ez-zizi, A.
* , Milin, P.
and Divjak, D.
What makes the past perfect and the future progressive?
Experiential coordinates for a learnable, context-based model of tense and aspect.
Cognitive Linguistics , 33(2), 251-289.
https://doi.org/10.1515/cog-2021-0006 .
* Joint first author.
Divjak, D., Milin, P., Ez-zizi, A.
, Józefowski, J., and Adam, C.
What is learned from exposure: an error-driven approach to productivity in language.
Language, Cognition and Neuroscience , 36(1), 60-83.
https://doi.org/10.1080/23273798.2020.1815813 .
, McNamara, J.
M., Malhotra, G., and Houston, A.
Optimal gut size of small birds and its dependence on environmental and physiological parameters.
Journal of Theoretical Biology , 454, 357-366.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jtbi.2018.05.010 .
, Farrell, S., and Leslie, D.
Bayesian Reinforcement Learning in Markovian and non-Markovian Tasks.
In IEEE Symposium Series on Computational Intelligence , pp.
579-586, Cape Town, https://doi.org/10.1109/SSCI.2015.91 .

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/chris-lewington:
Dr Chris Hewes-Lewington is a Senior Lecturer in Cyber Security, Chair of the School Research Ethics Committee, and joined the team in June 2019 after a long and successful industrial career spanning the finance, telecommunications, defence and biotechnology sectors.
Chris has held a variety of leadership, senior management, and development roles from IT director through to programmer and has many years of practical software engineering experience.
Chris's early academic research focused on Formal Methods, followed by a broad range of industrial research projects including Intelligent Collaborative Agents, Network Computing and distributed technologies based on the CORBA standard.
His current academic interests focus on post-quantum cryptography, ransomware, zero-trust architectures, internet regulation, questions of ethics, bias and the law in computer science (particularly in relation to data privacy), security applications of artificial intelligence, social engineering and open source intelligence (OSINT).
Chris holds PhD and MSc degrees in Computer Science from the University of Essex, a BSc in Mathematics from the University of Hertfordshire, an LLB Law degree from the University of London, and is currently studying for a Masters degree in Advanced Security and Digital Forensics with Edinburgh Napier University, which is accredited by the National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC).
He is also a Certified Java Professional at Programmer, Developer and Part 1 Architect levels.
‘Cost-effective Cyber Security for Small Businesses’ – CyberASAP/InnovateUK funded project, April 2022
Expert Panel for British Science Week 2022, for a Q and A session with the public on Digital Forensics and Ransomware
E-learning Platform for Suffolk MIND – June to December 2019, EIRA funded collaborative project with University of Essex (co-investigators: Professor Nicholas Caldwell, Sean Preston)
Lewington, C.
(2023) ‘Programming Privacy: An Evaluation of Homomorphic Encryption Compilers’.
Submitted to ACM Transactions on Privacy and Security
Hermjakob, Henning & Montecchi-Palazzi, Luisa & Lewington, Chris & Mudali, Sugath & Kerrien, Samuel & Orchard, Sandra & Vingron, Martin & Roechert, Bernd & Roepstorff, Peter & Valencia, Alfonso & Margalit, Hanah & Armstrong, John & Bairoch, Amos & Cesareni, Gianni & Sherman, David & Apweiler, Rolf.
(2004).
‘IntAct: An open source molecular interaction database’.
Nucleic acids research.
32.
D452-5.
10.1093/nar/gkh052.
(1994) Deriving Denotational Semantics from Axiomatic Semantics within Constructive Set Theory.
University of Essex Report, Department of Computer Science.
Lewington C.P .
(1990) ‘Towards constructive program derivation in VDM’.
In: Nori K.V., Veni Madhavan C.E.
(eds) Foundations of Software Technology and Theoretical Computer Science.
FSTTCS 1990.
Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol 472.
Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg
(2023) ‘Cyber Security is all about Technology – or is it?’ Invited talk, CyberEAST open business event on skills for cyber security, March 2023

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/dr-felix-ngobigha:
Felix Ngobigha is a Senior Lecturer in Network Engineering and Course Leader for the MSc in Computer Science at the School of Business, Arts, Social Sciences and Technology.
He holds a PhD in Computing and Electronic Systems, and an MSc in Telecommunications and Information Systems from the University of Essex, Colchester, UK., obtained in 2005 and 2015, respectively.
In 2000, he received a B.Tech.
(Hons.) degree in Electrical Engineering (Electronics option) from Rivers State University of Science and Technology, Port Harcourt, Nigeria.
Prior to joining the University of Suffolk as a Lecturer in 2020, he worked as a Postdoctoral Researcher and held a Visiting Research Fellow position in the School of Computer Science and Electronic Engineering at the University of Essex, UK, from 2016 to 2020.
He also held a Lectureship position in the Department of Electrical/Electronic Engineering at Niger Delta University, Bayelsa State, Nigeria, from 2004 to 2011.
From 2001 to 2004, he was a Scientific Officer with the Centre for Satellite Technology Development, an activity centre of the National Space Research and Development Agency, Abuja, Nigeria, and Surrey Satellite Technology Limited, Guildford, UK, for the development and launch of the NigeriaSat-1 disaster monitoring satellite (remote sensing applications).
Felix's teaching and learning support covers several fields, including the following areas: future networks, computing, high-level electronic circuit design, wireless communications, microwave and/or antenna theory, and other related fields.
Current teaching responsibilities:
Felix is interested in research problems that arise in practical communication and/or electromagnetics scenarios including future networks with a major objective of bridging theory and practise.
He is currently the Technology Lead for the Networking and Security theme within the Digital Futures Institute (DFI) and would be pleased to consider supervising doctoral students with the following research interests/topics:
Recent grants/projects:
Current PhD student(s) supervision:
PhD External Examination(s):
Refereed journals
Book chapter(s)
Refereed conferences/presentations/preprints/other reports
Reviewer:

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/dr-javiera-atenas:
Javiera Atenas is a Senior Lecturer in Learning and Teaching Enhancement and leads the Postgraduate Certificate in Academic Practice (PgCAP) and teaches data visualisation for social scientists.
Javiera holds a degree in library and information Science (UTEM, Chile) an MSc in Knowledge Management (HAW, Germany) and a PhD in Education (UB, Spain).
She has been working in HE in Europe, Latin America and the Middle East as a lecturer, researcher and policy advisor in openness to education, science and data.
In the last years her work has been focusing in developing critical data literacies amongst academics and supporting institutions in developing open education and science policies.
From 2019, she has been leading a policy advisory team at the OE Policy Hub – Lab to support the implementation of the UNESCO Recommendations for Open Education to develop national and institutional policies, as part of the work of the Open Education UNESCO coalition.
Also, she is a member of the implementation working group at Open Data Charter, a member of the European Open Education Policy Forum and board of the Open Education Working Group, Open Knowledge International.
Also, she is a member of the committee for recognition and enhancement of teaching skills in the HE sector for the Italian National Evaluation Agency for HE (ANVUR).
She is currently accepting applications for doctoral students in areas of critical data literacy, open educational policies and practices and education and social justice.
Atenas, J., Nerantzi, C., & Bussu, A.
A conceptual approach to transform and enhance academic mentorship: Through open educational practices.
Open Praxis, 15(4), 271-287.
https://doi.org/10.55982/openpraxis.15.4.595
Atenas, J., Havemann, L., Rodés, V., & Podetti, M.
Critical data literacy in praxis: An open education approach for academic development.
Edutec, Revista Electrónica de Tecnología Educativa , 84, 49-67.
https://doi.org/10.21556/edutec.2023.85.2851
Atenas, J., Havemann, L., & Timmermann, C.
Reframing data ethics in research methods education: A pathway to critical data literacy.
International Journal of Educational Technology in Higher Education, 20(1), 11.
https://doi.org/10.1186/s41239-023-00380-y
Atenas, J., Havemann, L., Kuhn, C., Timmermann, C.
Critical Data Literacy in Higher Education: Teaching and Research for Data Ethics and Justice.
In: Raffaghelli, J.E., Sangrà, A.
(eds) Data Cultures in Higher Education .
Higher Education Dynamics, vol 59.
Springer, Cham.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-24193-2_12
Bozkurt, A., Gjelsvik, T., Adam, T., Asino, T.
I., Atenas, J., Bali, M., Blomgren, C., Bond, M., Bonk, C.
J., Brown, M., Burgos, D., Conrad, D., Costello, E., Cronin, C., Czerniewicz, L., Deepwell, M., Deimann, M., DeWaard, H.
J., Dousay, T.
A., ...
Zawacki-Richter, O.
Openness in Education as a Praxis: From Individual Testimonials to Collective Voices.
Open Praxis, 15(2), 76–112.
https://doi.org/10.55982/openpraxis.15.2.574
Atenas, Javiera.
The Datafied Present and Future.
In Understanding Data: Praxis and politics .
UK: HDI - Data, Praxis and Politics.
http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.4698609
Ebner, M., Schön, S., Atenas, J., Havemann, L., Nascimbeni, F., & Neumann, Jan L.
Ressourcen und Werkzeuge für die Entwicklung einer OER-Policy an Hochschulen.
Gemeinsamer Report von TU Graz, Open Education Austria Advanced , OER World Map und Open Education Policy Hub.
Graz: TU Graz.
DOI: http://doi.org/10.13140/RG.2.2.13705.47207/1
Atenas, J., Havemann, L., & Timmermann C.
Critical literacies for a datafied society: academic development and curriculum design in higher education.
Research in Learning Technology , 28 .
https://doi.org/10.25304/rlt.v28.2468
Atenas, J.
Havemann, L., Neumann, J.
& Stefanelli, C.
Open Education Policies: Guidelines for co-creation .
OE Policy Lab & Hub Publications.
http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.4032994
& Havemann, L.
(2019) Open Data and Education.
In T.
Davies, S.
Walker, M.
Rubinstein, & F.
Perini (Eds.), The State of Open Data: Histories and Horizons .
Cape Town and Ottawa: African Minds and International Development Research Centre.
10.5281/zenodo.2677851

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/dr-kakia-chatsiou:
Kakia is a Lecturer in Computing at the School of Business, Arts, Social Sciences and Technology with expertise in machine learning, information management systems and data science.
She holds a PhD from the University of Essex (2010).
She is a member of the School of BASST Ethics Committee, the School of BASST Executive committee, and the OSACC committee at the University of Suffolk.
Before joining Suffolk, she was a postdoctoral researcher at the University of Essex where she worked on automated, quantitative methods of processing large amounts of textual and other forms of unstructured data – mainly political texts and social media – and the methodology of Natural Language Processing.
Kakia is the module leader for the following modules:
My research focuses on automated, quantitative methods of processing large amounts of textual and other forms of unstructured data – mainly political texts and social media – and the methodology of text mining.
My research is driven by my fascination with all kinds of data (big/small, text/number/images) and how it can help us better understand ourselves and our society.
I am also interested in how data can be used to improve resilience, maximise accountability and trust and reduce inequalities.
Recent Publications :
Bonacaro, M, Chatsiou, K., Georgiadis, M., Monaco, A.
(2023) Understanding chronic pain in the ubiquitous community: a blueprint for open data.
In Frontiers in Pain Research.
To appear.
Chamberlain, J., Turpin, B., Ali, M., Chatsiou, K., & O’Callaghan, K.
Designing for Collective Intelligence and Community Resilience on Social Networks.
Human Computation , 8 (2), 15-32.
https://doi.org/10.15346/hc.v8i2.116 Chatsiou, K.
& Mikhaylov, S.J.
Deep Learning for Political Science .
The SAGE Handbook of Research Methods in Political Science and International Relations, pp.1053–1078.
Available at: http://dx.doi.org/10.4135/9781526486387.n58
Chatsiou, K.
T ext Classification of COVID-19 Press Briefings using BERT and Convolutional Neural Networks.
MS ArXiv:2010.10267 [Cs].
http://arxiv.org/abs/2010.10267
Projects I work on leverage current technologies in machine learning, natural language processing and experimental behavioral study to describe the mechanisms for digital transformation in communities, businesses and the public sector and how data can be used as an enabler of a fairer, more transparent and accountable society.
I have worked with local authorities, charity organisations and businesses in the space above, such as MultiplAI, the LoadStar, TIPE, Cassius.
I am a STEM ambassador and I am occasionally invited to talk about my work and STEM in general in schools and FE colleges.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/dr-syed-aslam:
Syed Aslam is a Lecturer in Computing at the School of Business, Arts, Social Science and Technology.
Before joining the University of Suffolk in August 2022, he completed his PhD in Computer Science from Bangor University, Wales in May 2022.
There he developed an integrated agent-based robotic design software for simulating and validation interesting robotic behaviours, to improve students’ leaning experience.
During his time at Bangor University, he was also a teaching assistant within the subject areas of Computer Networks, Web Applications, Databases, and C Programming.
Syed is currently teaching the following modules:
Research interests include Artificial Intelligence, Robotics, and Evolutionary Programming, Computer Networks, VoIP, Web and Mobile Applications, Software Development.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/shahroz-nadeem:
Shahroz earned his doctorate in Computer Vision from University of Derby, on detection of violence in synthetic imagery.
His speciality is in deep learning methods for violence detection, image steganography, image deblurring and super-resolution.
He has also worked as a data scientist for European Social Fund (ESF) project.
Shahroz has also undertaken extensive training on EnCase tool for digital forensics from Opentext.
Shahroz is a highly skilled and experienced professional with a strong background in data science, lecturing, and teaching.
Shahroz has consistently demonstrated a passion for research, data analysis, and delivering quality education.
Shahroz has been serving as a Data Scientist at the University of Derby for the European Social Fund (ESF) project.
Prior to this, Shahroz worked as an Associate Lecturer at the University of Derby from September 2020 to April 2022.
As the module leader for the course 5CC513 Network Investigation, they were responsible for delivering engaging lectures, marking assignments, preparing teaching materials, providing supervision and support to students, and handling administrative duties.
During my time at the University of Derby, I held multiple teaching positions, including an Associate Lecturer.
As the module leader for the course Network Investigation, I took great pride in delivering engaging lectures both online and face-to-face.
I also took on responsibilities such as marking assignments, preparing teaching materials, providing student support, and managing administrative tasks.
Before that, I served as a Post Graduate Teaching Assistant (PGTA).
In this role, I had the opportunity to work closely with lecturers in teaching various lab sessions.
I was responsible for designing lab content and delivering interactive sessions for courses like Cyber-crime Analysis and Investigation, Digital Forensics, and Databases.
Prior to my time at the University of Derby, I worked as a Lecturer at the National University of Computer and Emerging Sciences.
In this role, I primarily focused on designing, conducting, and evaluating programming language labs.
I supported students in honing their programming skills and provided guidance on using different tools.
Teaching courses such as Advance Programming (JAVA), Computer programming (C++), and Introduction to Computers (C++, Python) allowed me to create a positive and enriching learning environment.
In my professional research experience, I have worked as a Research Associate at the Cyber Security Research Group.
My primary focus has been on violence detection using virtual platforms.
The objective of my research was to develop synthetic virtual datasets that address ethical and moral implications related to sensitive data, particularly violence.
Creating methods that can be trained on virtual data and subsequently transfer the learned knowledge to real-world applications.
Throughout my research, I have extensively utilized Keras for deep learning applications, leveraging its capabilities in my work.
This experience has enhanced my proficiency in implementing advanced deep learning models.
Prior to my current position, I worked as a Research Assistant at the ReVeal Lab from January 2015 to April 2018.
During this time, I focused on deep convolutional neural networks for image restoration, specifically in blind textual deblurring of images.
I conducted empirical evaluations to analyze the learning behavior of convolutional neural networks, exploring the effects of different design choices on their performance in image restoration tasks.
In addition to my research work, I extensively utilized Google's TensorFlow and UC Berkeley's CAFFE frameworks during this period.
I also had the opportunity to conduct a week-long Data Science training boot camp in collaboration with the Higher Education Commission (HEC).
Furthermore, I was offered an internship during my Final Year Project, which was centered around Openstack.
Publication 1.
Nadeem, M.S., 2021.
Deep Labeller: Automatic Bounding Box Generation for Synthetic Violence Detection Datasets.
Submitted to Multimedia Tools and Applications 2.
Nadeem, M.S., ul Hussain, S.
and Kurugollu, F., 2021.
Textual Deblurring using Convolutional Neural Network.
In TechRxiv 3.
Nadeem, M.S.
Effectiveness of Synthetic Images in Violence Detection.
In techRxiv 4.
Nadeem, M.S., Franqueira, V.N., Kurugollu, F.
and Zhai, X., 2019, December.
WVD: A New Synthetic Dataset for Video-Based Violence Detection.
In International Conference on Innovative Techniques and Applications of Artificial Intelligence (pp.
158-164).
5.
Nadeem, M.S., Franqueira, V.N.
and Zhai, X., 2019.
Privacy verification of PhotoDNA based on machine learning.
The Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET).
6.
Nadeem, M.S., Franqueira, V.N., Zhai, X.
and Kurugollu, F., 2019.
A survey of deep learning solutions for multimedia visual content analysis.
IEEE Access, 7, pp.84003-84019.
7.
Rahim, R.
and Nadeem, S., 2018.
End-to-end trained cnn encoder-decoder networks for image steganography.
In Proceedings of the European Conference on Computer Vision (ECCV) Workshops (pp.
0-0).

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/get-in-touch/people-directory/school-of-business-arts-social-sciences-and-technology-/muhammad-waqar:
He completed his doctorate degree majoring in 5G Cloud Networks from Sejong University, Seoul, South Korea.
He developed solutions to improve the quality of service in 5G cloud radio access networks to make them commercially deployable.
He published research papers in well-reputed journals and international conferences.
His current academic and research interests focus on the 5G and beyond networks, cryptography, steganography, malware analysis, and threat intelligence using machine and deep learning.
He has hands-on experience in designing, developing, and maintaining grid and cloud computing facilities at data centres.
For this, he has taken the trainings from international institutions.
He has more than eight years of teaching and research experience at internationally recognized higher education institutions.
He taught the following modules at bachelor’s and master’s levels: computer networks, data communications and computer networks, discrete structures, operating systems, introduction to cyber security, cryptography essentials, advanced topics in cryptography, cryptanalysis and cyber security: defence.
He supervised a number of undergraduate final-year projects and graduate thesis in the computing domain.
He has expertise in designing and developing syllabus and modules according to taxonomies.
He worked as a team lead of various academic and administrative committees.
He is also certified in cyber security.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/get-in-touch/people-directory/school-of-business-arts-social-sciences-and-technology-/godwin-dzvapatsva:
He holds a PhD in Information Systems from the University of Cape Town, South Africa.
Before joining the University of Suffolk, he served as a lecturer at Walter Sisulu University in the Department of Information and Communication Technology.
During that time, he was a member of the Community Engagement Team, acted as the Departmental chair for Short Learning Programmes and served as a committee member of the Faculty Research Team.
In addition, he gained extensive experience in curriculum development and the creation of equitable learning environments during his tenure as the head of curriculum and learning at Lifechoices, a Non-Profit Organization that equips youth from low-resourced communities with on-demand coding skills.
It was during this period that he authored technical programming textbooks, which are currently recommended texts for the Technical and Vocational Education and Training sector in South Africa.
Alongside his university experience, Godwin boasts substantial expertise in Technical and Vocational Education and Training, having worked as a programming lecturer at the College of Cape Town for over a decade.
Information Systems Programming
In his teaching role, Godwin offers the following modules: • DevOps • Advanced Programming and Data Structures • Advanced Software Engineering • Managing Projects and Teams • Computing Research Skills, Practice, and Ethics
Godwin has research interests in the following areas: • Information and Communications Technologies for Development • Mobile learning Environments • Social Networks Key funded project • Greater Tygerberg Area BPO market analysis- Cape Town South Africa
In the realm of curriculum development, Godwin actively contributes to the South African TVET sector and collaborates with Coding Bootcamp academies.
As a South Africa-educated individual, Godwin possesses extensive connections with researchers both in Zimbabwe and South Africa.
South African Institute of Computer Scientists and Information Technologist.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/dr-ivana-lessner-listiakova:
Dr Ivana Lessner Listiakova is an Associate Professor in Childhood and Education in the School of Business, Arts, Social Sciences and Technology, University of Suffolk.
Her expertise is in inclusive education, learning support, sensory processing difficulties, sensory strategies, and creative arts therapies and interventions, including art and dramatherapy.
She previously worked at Comenius University in Bratislava, Slovakia, Palacky University in Olomouc, Czech Republic and University of Northampton, UK.
She has a PhD in Pre-school and Primary Education (2012) and a Master's degree in Therapeutic Education (2009).
Since 2010 she has taught undergraduate and graduate level students in courses and modules focused on creative art therapies, sensory integration and sensory processing needs, diversity and inclusion in education, special educational needs and partnership collaborative working with schools and families.
She has also supervised a large number students conducting research in their BA and MA dissertations.
PhD Students
Dr Ivana Lessner Listiakova is accepting PhD students with a broad focus on inclusion – inclusive education and social inclusion, interventions and strategies to support vulnerable and marginalised groups and individuals.
Dr Ivana Lessner Listiakova has been involved in research projects focused on evaluating a range of practices in expressive art therapies – specifically dramatherapy and art therapy, and the use of multisensory approaches, focusing on the needs of teachers in inclusive education, young people in social care facilities, and adults in mental health rehabilitation clinics.
Recently she worked on research projects exploring experiences of families living autism and teacher trainings in autism and evaluating teacher training in providing autism strategies.
Her expertise is mainly in qualitative research methodologies, interpretative and pragmatic research paradigms, conducting and analysing data collected through interviews as well as other creative methods.
She has also conducted mixed-methods research evaluating therapeutic and educational practice.
Recent Publications in English (2014-2021)
Selected publications (see ORCID ID: 0000-0002-6942-2485 for full listing)
Journal Articles (Suitable Including Primary Data Research)
Preece, D., & Lessner Lištiaková, I.
“There Isn’t Really Anything around Here…”: Autism, Education and the Experience of Families Living in Rural Coastal England, Education Sciences, 11(8), 397.
https://doi.org/10.3390/educsci11080397
Lisak Šegota, N., Lištiaková, I.
L., Stošić, J., Kossewska, J., Troshanska, J., Nikolovska, A.
P., ...
& Preece, D.
Teacher education and confidence regarding autism of specialist primary school teachers.
European Journal of Special Needs Education, 1-14.
https://doi.org/10.1080/08856257.2020.1829865
Kossewska, J., Preece, D., Lisak, N., Bombińska-Domżał, A., Lessner Listiakova, I., Niemiec, S., Lubińska-Kościółek, E., Płoszaj, M., Stošić, J., & Troshanska, J.
Training needs in the field of autism of contemporary Polish teachers in the context of the international ASD-EAST procject.
Social Welfare: Interdisciplinary Approach, 1(9), 82-92.
https://doi.org/DOI: 10.21277/sw.v1i9.441
Valachová, D., Lessner Listiakova, I., & Kováčová, B.
Gallery as an explicit stimulation environment in the development of artistic talent.
Muzeologia a Kulturne Dedicstvo, 7(2), 49-62.
http://www.muzeologia.sk/index_htm_files/mkd_2_19_online.pdf
Lessner Listiakova, I.
Migration as an influencing factor on identity formation.
Journal of Exceptional People, 1(12), 37-44.
http://jep.upol.cz/2018/Journal-of-Exceptional-People-Volume1-Number12.pdf
Kováčová, B., & Lištiaková, I.
Analysis of early childhood occupational therapy intervention in a group of clients with low graphomotor skills.
Journal of Exceptional People, 1(10), 93-106.
http://jep.upol.cz/2017/Journal-of-Exceptional-People-Volume1-Number10.pdf
Fábry Lucká, Z.
& Lištiaková, I.
Evaluation of programmes in psychomotor therapy.
Review of Artistic Education, 6(11-12), 158-166.
https://www.degruyter.com/downloadpdf/j/rae.2016.11.issue-1/rae-2016-0019/rae-2016-0019.pdf
Lištiaková, I., Valenta, M., & Šilarová, L.
(2014).
Evaluation of dramatherapy process with clients in addictions rehabilitation community.
Clinical and Special Psychology, 3/2014, 3.
http://psyjournals.ru/en/psyclin/2014/n3/Valenta_et_al.shtml
Lištiaková, I.
& Fábry Lucká, Z.
Online assessment, documentation and evaluation tool in early childhood intervention - pilot study in Slovakia in multisensory therapeutic environments.
Journal of Exceptional People, 2(5), pp.
59–71.
http://jep.upol.cz/2014/Journal-of-Exceptional-People-Volume2-Number5.pdf
Journal Articles (Literature Review Based)
Lessner Listiakova, I., & Preece, D.
In-service education and training for teachers regarding autism spectrum disorder: a review of the literature.
Annales Universitatis Paedagogicae Cracoviensis: Studia Psychologica, 12.
https://doi.org/10.24917/20845596.12.9
Analysis of three approaches in dramatherapy.
In Journal of Exceptional People, 1(6).
ISSN 1805-4978.
19–30.
http://jep.upol.cz/2015/Journal-of-Exceptional-People-Volume1-Number6.pdf
Kováčová, B.
Supportive occupational therapy intervention focused on the area of graphomotor skills in children with symptoms of dyspraxia in early childhood intervention.
In Special Education : Miscellanaea.
Warsawa : Aleksandra Siedlaczek-Swed, 2016.
ISBN 978-83-64157-29-5.
143-168.
Valenta, M.
& Listiakova, I.
Evaluation of dramatherapeutical process for clients with neurotic disorder.
In Routledge international handbook of dramatherapy.
Abingdon : Routledge, 2016.
ISBN 978-1-138-82972-5.
240-249.
https://www-routledgehandbooks-com.ezproxy.northampton.ac.uk/doi/10.4324/9781315728537.ch24
Tertiary education in expressive therapies in the European context.
In I.
Listiakova (Ed.) International Context of Tertiary Education in Expressive Therapies.
Olomouc : Univerzita Palackého.
12-35.
http://tera.expresivniterapie.cz/wp-content/uploads/2013/01/09_Terciary-education-in-the-area-of-art-therapies-in-international-context.-ISBN-978-80-244-4611-0%C2%A0.pdf
Tertiary Education in Dramatherapy.
In LIŠTIAKOVÁ, I.
(Ed.).
International Context of Tertiary Education in Expressive Therapies.
118-133.
Conference Proceedings Chapters
Ťulák Krčmáriková, Z.
& Lessner Lištiaková, I.
Sensory aspects of art therapy work with clay.
In 5th International Multidisciplinary Scientific Conference on Social Sciences & Arts SGEM 2018, Vol.
5, Issue 6.2, pp.
101-108.
& Valenta, M.
Therapist self-evaluation instrument in dramatherapeutic process: a pilot study.
In F.
Uslu (Ed.).
Proceedings of INTCESS15-2nd International Conference on Education and Social Sciences.
Istanbul: Ocerint.
88-94.
http://www.ocerint.org//intcess15_e-publication/papers/135.pdf
Multisensory environments in early childhood intervention.
In ICECI2014: Book of abstracts, Antalya: Eurlyaid, 2014, p.
295.
Through dramatherapy core processes towards interdisciplinary inclusive education practice.
In Jinakost ve speciálněpedagogickém kontextu.
Olomouc: Univerzita Palackého v Olomouci.
93–99.
http://new.uss.upol.cz/wp-content/uploads/2014/10/Hutyrov%C3%A1-%E2%80%93-Jinakost.pdf
Link to Research Gate https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Ivana_Lessner_Listiakova2
Link to Twitter https://twitter.com/listiaki
Link to LinkedIn https://www.linkedin.com/in/ivana-lessner-listiakova-phd-fhea-94b10184/
She has worked with international schools providing support to teachers, families and children with autism and learning difficulties.
She has conducted trainings for teachers and other helping professionals in sensory integration as well as the use of expressive arts therapies.
She was involved in collaborative projects with local settings, for example FermynWoods Contemporary Arts, Northamptonshire in research evaluation of their practice with young people in alternative provision education, or providing and evaluating creative arts sessions for families with children with SEN at The National Museum of Computing in Milton Keynes.
She was a national coordinator in several international LLP Leonardo da Vinci projects focused on early childhood intervention (ECI2.0, ICF-TRAIN) and mental health in families (Kids Strengths) collaboratively conducted in Austria, Germany, Finland, Hungary, Slovakia, Romania, Portugal and Spain.
Most recently she led workstreams in an Erasmus+ project ASD-EAST focused on training of specialist teachers working with children with autism in Croatia, Poland and North Macedonia.
She studied in Slovakia (Comenius University in Bratislava) and Hungary (ELTE Barczi Gusztav in Budapest); and she was a visiting scholar in at NYU Steinhardt in New York, USA.
She is a Fellow of the Higher Education Academy (FHEA, D2).
She is a member of ProLP Association of Therapeutic Educators in Slovakia, editorial board member of Preschool Education Journal in Slovakia and a peer-reviewer for several international academic journals (British Journal of Special Education, International Journal of Early Years Education, International Journal of Developmental Disabilities, Journal of Exceptional People.
Journal for Reattach Therapy and Developmental Diversities, Croatian Review of Rehabilitation Research, Journal of the Association of Speech-Language Pathologists of the Czech Republic).

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/dr-pere-ayling:
Dr Pere Ayling is a Senior Lecturer in the School of Business, Arts, Social Sciences and Technology.
Pere was born in Nigeria and has over 10 years of teaching experience in early years, primary and higher education.
Pere is also a Fellow of the Higher Education Academy.
Pere teaches across a range of undergraduate and postgraduate programmes currently at the University of Suffolk.
Pere is also a PhD supervisor.
Her area of interest is sociology of education and race, with a focus on the temporal and geographical characteristic of inequality and privilege.
Pere has several publications all of which are closely linked to her area of interest and specialism and focused on how social class, gender and race as well as (dis)ability intersect to (re)produce ‘privilege’ and ‘inequality’ in education and society in general.
Her most recent publications examined how elite Nigerian parents are attempting to reproduce their class position by choosing to educate their children in ‘white’ schools while another explored the ethical dilemmas involved in researching elites.
Her work on Nigerian elites has received national and international attention and led to speak at various conferences and symposia invitations from well-known scholars in the field of social class and elite studies.
Selected publications (see ORCID ID: 0000-0002-9878-0126 for full listing)
Distinction, Exclusivity and Whiteness: Elite Nigerian Parents and the International Education Market (2019), Springer.
Bourdieu in Nigeria: The Colonial Habitus and Elite Nigerian parents’ future Aspirations for their Children (2019).
In International Perspectives on Theorizing Aspirations: Applying Bourdieu’s Tools – Bloomsbury.
Diversity, Equality & Rights (2018) In Dis/Abled Childhoods?
A transdisciplinary Approach – Palgrave Macmillan.
Eliteness and Elite schooling in Contemporary Nigeria In Elite Education: International perspectives (2016) – Routledge.
Diversity, Equality and Rights in Early Years (2016) in The Early Years practitioner's handbook – Routledge.
Social Distinction and Risk Avoidance: Reasons why affluent Nigerian parents choose British boarding schools (2011) in Brooks, M.
- Nigeria: An analysis of the market in Nigerian for school-aged education in the UK.
London: British Council’s Education UK Partnership).
Lillie, K, and Ayling, P.
(2020) Revisiting the un/ethical: the complex ethics of elite studies research, Qualitative Research, p1–16.
Decolonising the Mind: Using the colonial habitus to disrupt the dominant discourse of ‘white school’ as top-quality school in Nigeria, (2020) BERA RI (Research Intelligence).
Gartland, C.
Nolan, S.
Ayling, P.
& Dogaru, C.
(2020) Science technology, engineering and maths (STEM) employer collaborations with university and pre-university (16-19 years) settings: A review of evidence of impact & implications for future practice.
INTED conference paper.
The Oyinbo man’s pedagogy as an indicator of top-quality education in Nigeria.
(2019) BERA RI (Research Intelligence).
The Three Rs: Parental Risk management strategies in the International Secondary Education Market (2017).
Journal of Curriculum Inquiry - DOI: 10.1080/03626784.2017.1324735.
‘Embodying ‘Britishness’: The (Re)making of the Contemporary Nigerian Elite Child’ (2015).
Curriculum Inquiry, Vol 45(5) p.455-471, DOI: 10.1080/03626784.2015.1095623.
International Education and Social Distinction: The consumption of British private schooling by elite Nigerian parents (2015) Doctoral Theses, British Journal of Sociology of Education, 36:2, 354-358, DOI: 10.1080/01425692.2015.1008337
Conference papers
Geographies of (dis)advantage: International education and the maintenance of middle-class advantage in Nigeria - BSA conference (accepted 21-23 April 2020).
Distinction, Exclusivity and Whiteness: Elite Nigerian parents and the international education market - BJSE @40 Institute of Education, University of London.
Consuming oversea schooling: An act of parental love?
Workshop on Elites – Oxford (accepted 16-17, June 2020).
Whiteness as a symbol of ‘quality’ education: An analysis of perceptions of quality education among affluent Nigerian parents - Society for the Study of Social Problems (SSSP) – New York (July 2019).
Class apart: A comparative analysis of elite Nigerian and working-class parents’ perceptions of quality education in the international education market - Children and Childhoods conference – (June 2019).
Theory: The art of academic writing - BERA REE SIG annual writing conference (May 2018).
The Three Rs: Parental Risk Management Strategies in the International Secondary Education Market - International workshop on multicultural Education Thailand (June 2018).
BOURDIEU IN NIGERIA!
The Colonial Habitus and Elite Nigerian Parents’ Aspirations for Their Children - BSA annual conference -Lancaster University (July 2018).
Whiteness as a symbol of ‘quality’ education: An analysis of perceptions of quality education among affluent Nigerian parents - BSA annual conference – Manchester university (April 2017).
The Three Rs: Parental Risk Management Strategies in the International Secondary Education Market - Masters International conference -Madrid (June 2017).
Dis/ability critical race studies: Racialising (Dis)ability, disabling race - Annual disabled Children’s Research forum (July 2017).
Presented a paper on ‘The Nigerian elites’ at the BSA Annual conference at Aston University, Birmingham April 2016.
The (Re)making of the contemporary Nigerian elite child” -BSA Bourdieu Study Group’s Inaugural Biennial Conference July 2016: 'The contemporary relevance of the work of Pierre Bourdieu University of Bristol.
Pere completed a successful bid for a BT funded systematic review research on best practice in industry-linked STEM scholarships, internships, industry-school partnerships, and other/mixed programs offered to sixth form and university students.
Pere completed a successful bid for a Suffolk County Council funded research project examining the effectiveness of a local councils’ inclusion programme designed to support the successful reintegration of excluded students back into mainstream school.
Taken part in British Academy funded workshops on the ‘implementation and challenges of multicultural education in Thailand and a symposium in Italy exploring inequalities in all of their many and various manifestations.
Pere is a member of British Sociological Association and British Education Research Association.
Pere is currently one of the convenors of the Race, Ethnicity and Education BERA special interest group.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/dr-marianna-stella:
Dr Marianna Stella is a Senior Lecturer in Childhood and Education at the School of Business, Arts, Social Sciences and Technology.
Her main areas of focus are around development of educational practice, teacher training, Specific Learning Difficulties (SpLD), dyslexia, inclusive education and widening participation.
Marianna is an expert in SpLD, dyslexia and effective strategies for children and people with SpLD in education.
Marianna initially joined the University of Suffolk as an Occasional Lecturer teaching in the FdA Early Years Practice, BA (Hons) Early Childhood Studies and BA (Hons) Early and Primary Education programmes, and she is now the Course Leader for the BA (Hons) Childhood and BA (Hons) Childhood: Primary Education with QTS courses.
She has also taught as an Associate Tutor in the BA in Education and the BSc in Psychology at UEA, and worked as a SpLD Adviser at the Student Support Services at UEA.
Marianna teaches in a variety of modules around practice, education and inclusion in the BA (Hons) Early Childhood Studies, BA (Hons) Early Childhood Studies Graduate Practitioner and BA (Hons) Early and Primary Education Studies.
More specifically she is the module leader for the following modules:
Marianna is supervising undergraduate and postgraduate taught dissertations, as well as postgraduate research/doctorate students.
Academic Qualifications
Marianna completed a BEd (Hons) in Primary Education Studies at the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens in Greece.
She then continued on to complete an MA in SpLD (dyslexia) at UCL Institute of Education.
During her Master’s, Marianna trained as a specialist dyslexia teacher and assessor while gaining an Associate Membership of the British Dyslexia Association (AMBDA).
In 2015, Marianna undertook a funded PhD in Psychology at the University of East Anglia (UEA) with Dr Paul Engelhardt, which she completed in 2019.
Her thesis focused on examining the comprehension, processing and eye movements during reading of sentences with complex syntax in dyslexic adults and adolescents.
As part of her PhD research, she also examined potential cognitive factors that are involved in processing of complex syntax in sentences, like working memory.
Marianna’s research interests are located within the field of psychology, psycholinguistics and education, as she is interested in applying the knowledge and research in SpLD to education and effective interventions.
Marianna is interested in sentence comprehension, specific learning difficulties, dyslexia, language processing and eye tracking.
Methodologically, Marianna has experience with both quantitative and qualitative research methods.
Marianna is currently part of the PhD supervisory team of Jude Dzregah, who is investigating the experiences of trainee teachers while in placement.
Please email Marianna if you would like to do a PhD, gain research experience or discuss a potential collaboration.
Marianna is currently the principal investigator for a project with nurtureuk, which is evaluating the impact of nurture interventions and programmes in schools across London.
Selected publications (see ORCID ID: 0000-0002-9562-8225 for full listing)
Stella, M.
and Boggis, A.
‘Capturing narratives: the ordinary lives of young disabled people’, in Richards, S.
and Coombs, S.
(ed) Critical Perspectives on Research with Children Reflexivity, Voice, Interdependence, Agency and Ethics.
Bristol: Bristol University Press.
https://bristoluniversitypress.co.uk/critical-perspectives-on-research-with-children
Transforming Access and Student Outcomes in Higher Education (TASO) (2022).
Summer Schools in the time of Covid-19: Interim findings on the impact of widening participation.
https://taso.org.uk/wp-content/uploads/Report_Summer-schools-in-the-time-of-Covid-19_Interim-findings-on-the-impact-on-widening-participation.pdf
Stella, M., & Engelhardt, P.
Use of Parsing Heuristics in the Comprehension of Passive Sentences: Evidence from Dyslexia and Individual Differences.
Brain Sciences, 12 (2), 209.
MDPI AG.
http://dx.doi.org/10.3390/brainsci12020209
Comprehension and eye movements in the processing of subject- and object-relative clauses: Evidence from dyslexia and individual differences.
Brain Sciences, 11 (7), 915.
http://dx.doi.org/10.3390/brainsci11070915
Stella, M., & Engelhardt P.E.
(2019) Syntactic ambiguity resolution in dyslexia: An examination of cognitive factors underlying eye movement differences and comprehension failures.
Dyslexia , 1–27.
https://doi.org/10.1002/dys.1613
Marianna was part of the conference team organising the Children and Childhoods Conferences, the latest of which took place in July 2022.
Marianna is part of the editorial team of Childhood Remixed Journal 2020 , the online journal of the Centre for the Study of Children and Childhood (CSCC).
(2021) Sentence comprehension and eye movements in adolescents with dyslexia.
Talk presented at Inclusive and Supporting Education Conference, UCL Institute of Education.
Talk presented at British Dyslexia Association International Conference 2021, Virtual conference.
& Engelhardt, P.
(2019) Sentence comprehension and eye movements in adolescents with dyslexia .
Talk presented at Children and Childhoods Conference, University of Suffolk, Ipswich.
(2018) Sentence processing in dyslexia: An examination of eye movements and comprehension.
Participation in School of Psychology Micro-conference and Three-Minute thesis competition, University of East Anglia.
(2018) Eye movements in dyslexia: An analysis of sentence comprehension and underlying risk factors.
Talk presented at British Dyslexia Association Conference, Telford.
Stella, M .
(2016) Can dyslexic readers get off the Garden Path?
An analysis of underlying comorbid risk factors.
Poster presented at ‘Using eye movements to study literacy development’ Experimental Psychology Society-funded workshop in Psychology, University of Southampton, Southampton.
Talk presented at Neurodevelopmental Disorders Annual Seminar, London.
Invited Talks
(2021) Dyslexia as a Neurodevelopmental Difference in Children and Adults .
Virtually streamed invited webinar, Brainside ( https://lectures.brainside.org/courses/dyslexia )
(2020) Can dyslexic readers get off the Garden Path?
An examination of sentence comprehension and eye movements .
Invited talk at Research Community Seminar Series, School of Social Sciences and Humanities, University of Suffolk, Ipswich.
(2019) Can dyslexics get off the Garden Path?: Examining eye movements in psycholinguistics .
Invited talk at Language and Linguistics at Christmas workshop, University of Suffolk, Ipswich.
(2019) Supporting students with SpLD .
Invited talk presented at Pre-Hospital Educators Symposium, University of East Anglia, Norwich.
Marianna is interested in sharing her knowledge and expertise in SpLD with researchers, practitioners and the wider public.
Marianna has been frequently invited to deliver and participate in workshops and training events for teachers and trainee teachers on effective strategies for children with literacy difficulties and SpLD.
She would be very interested in making further contacts with educational settings, practitioners, teachers and training providers to share her experience and expertise.
Marianna delivered a Bitesized recorded session on SpLD, Employability and Employment, as part of Together with Business Project with Ipswich Waterfront Innovation Centre (IWIC) at University of Suffolk in the summer of 2020.
Following on from that, Marianna delivered a Lunch ‘n’ Learn session on the strengths of SpLD (like dyslexia, dyspraxia, ADHD and dyscalculia), for employers and job applicants in an effort to raise awareness as part of Dyslexia Awareness Week, Dyspraxia Awareness Week and ADHD Awareness Month in October 2020.
Marianna is a Social Media Champion for the Childhood and Education courses within the School of Business, Arts, Social Sciences and Technology.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/pallawi-sinha:
Dr Pallawi Sinha is a Senior Lecturer in Childhood Studies, at the School of Business, Arts, Social Sciences and Technology.
She is the current Course Leader for the MA Childhood Studies and MA Education programmes.
Pallawi is passionate about building dialogue on education and childhoods,  particularly in indigenous, disadvantaged and marginalised contexts.
She is a trained educationalist, social scientist and product designer.
Pallawi obtained her doctorate (2016) and a Master’s degree (2012), at the Faculty of Education, University of Cambridge.
She also completed her PGCE, in 2009, at the University of Essex.
Pallawi’s research and teaching have primarily been concerned with unequal childhoods, epistemic inequalities, indigeneity, sociology and political economy of childhood and education, and early years care and education.
Pallawi currently teaches across the Education and Childhood strands, on the undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate programmes, at the University.
She has designed and led a range UG modules including (but not limited to): Childhood Care and Education, Children's Material Worlds, Diversity, Rights and Inclusion, Decolonisation and Difference.
She is the module leader for the Master's modules on Critical Perspectives in Childhood Studies and Independent Project.
Pallawi has also supervised a wide range of undergraduate, Master's and doctoral research projects to successful completions.
Previously, she has designed and delivered teaching related to international and comparative education, sociology of childhood and education, educational history, theory and philosophy, arts, culture and community in education, indigeneity, childhood geographies, place- and meaning-making, ethics and politics of  education and research, qualitative, participatory and socially-responsive research and research skills .
Pallawi has engaged widely with research and knowledge exchange as she believes this central to her academic and the civic responsibility.
She has disseminated her work to the academic community by means of seminars, conferences, lectures and workshops; publishing in peer-reviewed journal articles, book chapters and reports and presenting to state members and non-government bodies alongside policy-briefing, funding bodies and advisory committees.
Pallawi has obtained a range of small grants including the UKRI Policy Support Fund (£4000) which led to the successful design and delivery of the national conference titled, ‘Social Constructs of Disabilities and Lived Realities of Autism’, in partnership with Beyond Autism; the UKRI Participatory Research Fund (£4666), 2022-2023, exploring first-generation learners’ perspectives, experiences and navigation of Higher Education, and the Centre for Excellence in Teaching and Learning (2022) granted £6000 for the project titled, ‘Suffolk Inclusivity & Diversity’ examining students and staff members on EDI practices and policies within the University of Suffolk.
Pallawi is the Co-organiser of the Children and Childhoods Conference, hosted by the University of Suffolk, UK, and the International Conference for Child Studies, University of Minho, Portugal.
The Conferences have offered a regional, national and international platforms for building dialogue, collaborations and networks alongside opportunities for colleagues to publish together.
Pallawi is also the Lead for the Children and Childhoods Research Theme and the Co-Lead for the Global Majorities and Racial Justice Research Theme, situated within the Institute of Crime and Social Justice.
This has enabled regional conversations on the topic, delivery of workshops and full-day events for local schools, students and staff members, and civic and reciprocal relationships with  local government bodies, the third sector and communities.
Selected publications (see ORCID ID: 0000-0002-2889-3416 for full listing)
Upcoming Edited Monographs
Hackett, P., Sinha, P., Gordley-Smith, A.
& Na, S.
(forthcoming August 2025).
Handbook on Race and Racialisation in Social Science Research.
Routledge publications.
Sinha, P., Richards, S.
& Stella, M.
(forthcoming September 2025) Revisiting Contemporary Childhoods: Children as agents of capital or change.
Bristol University Press.
Forthcoming Book Chapters
Sinha, P.
(August 2025).
‘Interrogating Research as a Site for (Re-)Configuring Racial Formations’, in P.
Hackett et al., (eds) International Handbook of Race, Racism and Racialization in Qualitative Research Methods.
(September 2025).
‘Politicising Childhood’, in P.
Richards & M.
Stella (Eds) Revisiting Contemporary Childhoods.
Bristol: Bristol Policy Press.
Journal Articles (Peer-reviewed)
(in press, 2025) ‘(De-)Bordering Children’s Agency’.
Global Studies of Childhood.
UK: Sage
Indigeneity and Education in India: Retelling the Sabar Story.
AlterNative.
Burnard P., Colucci-Gray L.
& Sinha, P.
Letting arts and science teach: Making the case, heeding the evidence, in Point and Counterpoint section, Curriculum Perspectives.
41(1):113–118.
Sriprakash, A., Maithreyi, R, Kumar, A., Sinha, P.
& Prabha, K.
‘Normative Development in Rural India: ‘School readiness’ and ECCE’ in Comparative Education.
doi.org/10.1080/03050068.2020.1725350
Tsimpli, I., Mukhopadhyay, L., Treffers-Daller, J., Alladi, S., Marinis, T, Panda, M., Balasubramaniam, A., & Sinha, P.
‘Multilingualism and multiliteracy in primary education in India: A discussion of some methodological challenges of an interdisciplinary research project’, in Special issue of Research in Comparative and International Education.
14(1), 54–76.
DOI: 10.1177/1745499919828908
Hickman, R., & Sinha, P.
Article ‘The Sabar Ways of Knowing: Sustainable ideas towards Educational Ecology’ in Special Issue of International Journal of Art and Design Education, pp.
113-124.
(leading contribution) DOI: 10.1111/jade.12137.
‘Listening Ethically to Indigenous Children: Experiences from India’.
International Journal of Inclusive Education, 21(3), 272-285.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/13603116.2016.1260843
Hickman, R.
‘Adivasi aesthetic knowing: A duographic account’.
Journal of Visual Inquiry: Learning & Teaching Art, 5(3), 317-328.
doi: 10.1386/vi.5.3.317_1
& Hickman, R.
Sabar Ways of Knowing through the Arts, Visual Arts Research, 41(1), 88-103.
Invited Book Chapters
Othering Otherness: The Entangled Stories of Boka and Boka.
In: Magalhaes, L.
(eds) Otherness in Communication Research.
Palgrave Studies in Otherness and Communication.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-73788-6_4
‘Responding Reflexively, Relationally and Reciprocally to Unequal Childhoods’, Chapter in S.
Richards and S.
Coombs (Eds.) Reflexive conversations in Research with Children.
Bristol: BUP.
‘Ananda K Coomaraswamy: Crossing the boundaries of art and life’.
Garnet & A.
Sinner (Eds.), International Perspectives in Arts Education.
USA: Intellect Publishing
Burnard, P., Sinha, P., Fenyvesi, K., Steyn, C., Werner, O., Brownell, C., & Lavicza.
Z.
Book chapter, ‘Reconfiguring STEAM through Material Enactments of Mathematics and Arts: A diffractive reading of young people’s intradisciplinary Math-Artworks’ in P.
Burnard and L.
Colucci-Gray (Eds.), Why Science and Art Creativities Matter: (Re-Configuring STEAM for Future-making Education).
UK, USA: Brill/Sense Publications.
Fenyvesi, K., Burnard, P., Brownell, C., Sinha, P., Steyn, C., Werner, O., & Lavicza.
“Being an Equation that can’t be solved”: Emotional, Cognitive and Creative Relations to Mathematics and the Arts, Expressed through Artworks by South African Students.
Book chapter in Landscapes: Art, Aesthetics and Education , volume ‘Armchair and Paintbrush: An eternal Philosophico-artistic tango’.
Germany: Springer.
‘Philosophies and Histories of Art Education in India’.
Chapter in Baldacchino, J.
(Ed), The International Encyclopaedia of Arts and Design Education, Vol.
1, pp.
345-362.
USA, UK: Wiley-Blackwell Publication.
& Burke, C.
(2013).
The City as a Classroom and Street-children of New Delhi.
In C.
Burke & K.
Jones (Eds.), Education, Childhood and Anarchism: Talking Colin Ward.
pp.33-45.
Oxon, NY: Routledge.
Reports (Invited)
Gotlieb, R.*, Hickey-Moody, A.*, Güroğlu, B.*, Burnard, P.*, Horn, C., Willcox, M.
Et al.
‘The Social and Emotional Foundations of Learning’ in Bugden, S.
and Borst, G.
(eds.) Education and the Learning Experience in Reimagining Education: The International Science and Evidence based Education Assessment.
New Delhi: UNESCO MGIEP.
(2021) Reviewed and reported on Anna Freud scoping review of the factors that influence families’ ability to provide young people with emotional support over the transition to adulthood April 2021.
Burnard, P., Stahl, G., Gill, G., Giugni, L.
‘Participation and Re-presentation in ‘Start-ups’ as Epistemological Sites: A Feminist Space?’ Report on Women in Social Enterprise to the University of Cambridge Research Team.
Cambridge: CHRGS & University of Cambridge.
Bihar State Strategy and Action Plan for the Prevention of Child Marriage.
Bihar, India: UNFPA.
& Bhuria, A.
Report on Adult Learning and Education for UN GRALE III Recommendations.
Uppingham: ALE Working Group.
Pallawi is passionate about driving conversations beyond academia to engage the wider audience including the state, the public and youth, and other governing bodies and institutions in relation to education, in India and the UK.
Previously, she has worked with a range of non-government organisation, trusts and charity-driven schools, and has sought to attend to the same at the University.
Pallawi’s research has seen her work in several transnational projects including a longitudinal study on multilingualism and multiliteracy across India (ESRC-DfID); a British Academy and DfID funded research exploring responsive models of E arly Childhood Care and Education across India and UK, and small scale studies building STEAM understanding across 4 countries (UK, USA, South Africa and Finland).
Her own research work with the indigenous Sabar community of India has been published widely and led to public sector and academic engagements across India and internationally.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/kelly-marie-taylor:
Kelly-Marie Taylor is deputy c ourse leader for BA (Hons) Early Years Practice and BA (Hons) Early Learning , and contributes to MA Childhood Studies.
She is passionate about Children’s rights, the Sociological study of Childhood, and providing excellent teaching and learning experiences.
Kelly first joined the University of Suffolk as a student in 2008 on the BA (Hons) Early Childhood Studies programme graduating in 2012.
She completed a MA in Sociological Research in 2013 at the University of Essex.
She is a current PhD Student at the University of Essex studying a PhD in Sociology with the title of “Children’s Digital Landscapes; Risk, Resilience, and Agentic Participation”.
Kelly began teaching on the FdA Early Years Practice in September 2014 and is module leader for Level 4 module Children’s Development and Wellbeing, Level 5 Developing Professional Practice and Level 5 Safeguarding Young Children.
Kelly also supervises BA (Hons) Early Learning Dissertations at Level 6 and Dissertations for MA Childhood Studies.
Kelly is the deputy course leader for the FdA Early Years Practice Online distance learning course and is passionate about the development of online teaching pedagogies and philosophies.
Kelly’s research interests are broadly located within the sociology of childhood, her current PhD research is looking at the debates around childhood and youth culture, particularly focusing on the moral panics around digital technologies such as the use of the internet and mobile phones.
Her research focuses on the digital landscapes of contemporary childhood and evaluates the risks involved and children and young people’s resilience and participation in these arenas.
She has utilised qualitative and feminist methodologies to conduct focus groups and interviews with young people.
Kelly has an interest in building professional partnership and relationships with stakeholders to enhance progression to Higher Education for Early Years and Primary Practitioners.
Additional interests are in children’s use of digital technology and Kelly is available to provide information talks on keeping children safe online to a range of audiences.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/get-in-touch/people-directory/school-of-business-arts-social-sciences-and-technology-/diane-keeble-ramsay:
Dr Diane Keeble-Ramsay is currently working within a number of institutions supervising and tutoring to doctoral level.
Diane's current role at the University of Suffolk involves the supervision of PhD students leading to recognised research papers and the mentoring of colleagues.
As an experienced Doctoral Examiner within and without the United Kingdom, she has acted in Chair, Internal and External Examiner roles.
She held the post of Deputy Director for the Positive Ageing Research Institute and Deputy Director for the Silver Economy and as a Senior Lecturer in Organisational Behaviour at the Faculty of Business and Law School, Anglia Ruskin University.
Having held management and commercial consultancy roles, also a Principal Fellow of HE Academy, she is a Chartered Member of the Institute of Personnel and Development.
Dr Keeble-Ramsay also acted as a CIPD national examiner further to holding differing examiner roles for a number of institutes.
She has been an Associate of the University of Leicester, where she qualified at Masters and Doctoral level.
Having studied also at the University of London, she is further qualified in Psychology and is a member of the British Psychological Society.
Her current research has included research making links to the experiences of employees in terms of Menopause and ageing, whilst currently working with a team of researchers considering post menopausal careers.
Other research projects have included reviewing organisational working practices and positive ageing within organisations since the global credit crisis and Covid pandemic.
She has published with Andrew Armitage receiving the Emerald Award for Excellent paper with regards to the changing nature of work.
Dr Keeble-Ramsay has published also on the impact of the raised national default retirement age, maternal discrimination and research methodology, to include the Structured Literature Review and Story Completion.
As an active Forum member for more than a decade, she has enjoyed awards from the University Forum of Human Resource Development (UFHRD) of the use of Arts Based Interventions.
Recent conference papers have spanned a number of international reflections on areas such as the impact of Covid19, religiosity and female entrepreneurship.
Having acted as a Journal and Book Editor she has also acted as a reviewer for a range of journals and book publications.
(details of publications on request)
Dr Keeble-Ramsay is a Principal Fellow of the HEA, a Chartered Member of Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development and a member of the British Psychological Society.
This is in addition to other membership of research groups.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/dr-will-thomas:
Dr Will Thomas is Associate Dean for Learning, Teaching and the Student Experience, and Head of Business.
He is also an Associate Professor of Business Management.
Will is passionate about supporting the learning and development of students and in doing so, supporting the development of businesses locally and further afield.
He is a student of Politics and Moral Philosophy, subjects that intersect with the interdisciplinary world of management education.
In the School of TBA his main teaching interests are in Business Ethics and in Research Methods.
He also runs the final-year ‘Extended Project’ for undergraduate students.
As a researcher, Will works on a number of interrelated topics.
His main focus, for the last 5 years, has been on health and social care management, particularly focusing on responses to the ‘wicked’ problems caused by economic, demographic and social pressures.
He also works on the application of the ethics of care to management challenges and on the idea of leadership quality in social care.
Will is  keen to bring together research and teaching not just through introducing students to the research that he is involved in, but also through seeking to innovate and improve the delivery of his own teaching sessions.
Having worked in research management and development, Will has several years’ experience of managing research and consultancy projects, scoping and delivering contract research and in organising training and collaborative learning exercises.
He brings this experience to his work leading the University of Suffolk Leadership Academy – running short courses such as the ILM Certificates in Leadership and Management, seminars, workshop and bespoke consultancy, knowledge transfer and training.
Learning
Will’s research interests are in exploring two, frequently intersecting, areas: ethical leadership and the management of wicked or complex problems.
As a scholar of the ethics of care Will’s primary interest in respect to ethical leadership is in how we describe, promote and practice relationships within organisational settings.
Ideas from this perspective, originally focused on the practice of care and in education, are important and useful, especially in respect to work that involves multiple organisations or complexity.
His interests in this area extend to his teaching practice in which he works to employ these principles as part of a ‘pedagogy of care’.
Wicked problems – those that are hard to describe, and which have no direct solution – present specific challenges for leaders and managers.
Will’s work in this area engages with principles of leadership to highlight these challenges and to provide insights into strategies for successful work in complex areas.
Commonly, this engages with his interest in relational leadership in asking how effective collaborations between and within organisations can be facilitated to address complexity.
Will has worked on more than 30 pieces of contract research and consultancy including large research studies and smaller one-off projects.
He is an experienced workshop facilitator and trainer.
Some recent examples:
Complete : Dr Jana Patey - Workplace Friendship and Anxiety: Organisational Insight through the Psychodynamic Exploration of Interpersonal Relationships
Dr Warren Scott - Messy problems and messy solutions: Ways of Being when engaging with Wicked Problems.
In Progress:
William Mellamphy - Understanding Contemporary forms of ‘play’ a study of 5th generation video games
André Neville - How does employers and veterans making assumptions about the skills ex-military personnel bring to a civilian working environment affect their ability to transition successfully?
Lisa Peach – Working intentionally with wicked problems - An appreciative ethnographic study of senior leader’s intentional moves to delegate accountability and sharing of accountability in an NHS hospital Trust
George Gnanathickam - Did strategic preparedness and readiness increase operational productivity and nursing experience during Covid-19?
New Projects: Will is keen to hear from students with interests in working on projects relating to his research interests, particularly areas such as:
Deemer, P., Ottley, E., and Thomas, W.
(2021) Using positive action to create a fairer recruitment process , Available at: https://www.nhsemployers.org/articles/using-positive-action-create-fairer-recruitment-process
Mongan, C and Thomas, W (2021) ‘Understanding good leadership in the context of English care home inspection reports’, Leadership in Health Services 34, 2, 167-180 https://doi.org/10.1108/LHS-11-2020-0098
Thomas, W., 2020, September.
A Framework for the Selection and Design of Serious Games.
In European Conference on Games Based Learning (pp.
613-XIX).
Academic Conferences International Limited.
Thomas, W., Hujala, A., Laulainen, S., And McMurray, R.
(2019) (eds) The Management of Wicked Problems in Health and Social Care .
London: Routledge
Thomas W and Hollinrake S.
(2019) ‘The Politics of Care: wicked constituents in care reforms’, in Thomas et al.
(eds) The Management of Wicked Problems in Health and Social Care .
Thomas W.
(2019) ‘Unpacking Dependency; Managing ‘Becoming’’, in Thomas et al.
Thomas W & Southwell M (2017) Learning from Rejection – an autoethnography of contract research in Vine, T.
Clarke, J.
and Richards S.
(eds) Ethnographic Encounters London: Routledge
Hollinrake, S.
Thomas, W.
Tocca, A.
and Cavenagh, P.
(2016) Food Shopping and Eating Habits in Later Life: Implications for Retailers and Public Health in Contributing to the Well-Being of Older People in Baho, S.M.
and Katsas G.A.
(eds) Making Sense of Food Inter-Disciplinary Press, London
and Thomas, W.
(2015) Caring Relationships and Efficient Social Care Provision: can an ethic of care provide a better foundation for responding to care needs in later life?, International Journal of Sociology and Social Policy 35:5:419-436
and Hollinrake S.
(2014) Economic and demographic challenges for social care: A critical perspective on the management and delivery of care, Journal of Health Organisation and Management 28:5:653-673
(2014) Creating an Enabling Culture in the delivery of Health and Social Care: addressing economic and demographic challenges, E-proceedings of ISL Symposium 2014
& Hollinrake S.
(2014) Policymakers, researchers and service users – resolving the tensions and dilemmas of working together, Innovation, the European Journal of Social Science Research 27:1:31-45

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/get-in-touch/people-directory/school-of-business-arts-social-sciences-and-technology-/dr-tom-vine:
Tom was recruited by Suffolk Business School in January 2012.
In addition to his lecturing, supervision and research responsibilities, Tom currently leads the Suffolk Business School Doctoral Programme.
Following his first two degrees at the University of Warwick (BSc Management Sciences; MA Organization Studies), Tom moved to London in 2001 to pursue a career in consultancy.
With a keen interest in politics and psephology, he was fortunate enough to find work at the Electoral Reform Services .
He worked full time for the company for six years, during which time he gained a range of managerial, supply chain and strategic competences.
He was promoted in 2003 to manage a team of project managers and was by this stage responsible for the delivery of several multimillion pound projects in both private and public sectors.
He continues to work for the company in a consultancy capacity.
In 2007, Tom began his PhD at the University of Essex under the supervision of Professors Chris Land and Harro Höpfl.
His doctoral research used the immersive methods of organizational anthropology to study unconventional work practices at a large intentional community (commune) in Scotland.
Tom holds the following qualifications
Tom currently leads the following modules:
Vine, T.
(2024) Paradox: Towards a Metatheory , London: Routledge.
(2023) 'Is physical co-presence a prerequisite for Durkheimian collective effervescence?
Reflections on remote working during the COVID-19 pandemic', Culture and Organization.
Ongus, C.
& Vine, T.
(2023) 'The Thorny Issue of Risk in Ethnographic Research: Perception, Prejudice and Unintended Consequences [Vignette]', in Kostera, M.
& Krzyworzeka, P., How to Be an Ethnographer , Cheltenham: Edward Elgar Publishing
& Richards, S.
(eds) (2022) Stories, Storytellers, and Storytelling , Cham, Switzerland: Palgrave Macmillan
Khan F., Mirza M., and Vine T.
(2022) 'The UN Global Compact and the Ulama (Religious Scholars of Islam): A Missing Voice in Islamic Business Ethics', Journal of Management Inquiry.
Vine, T .
Clinical Advance Through Ethnographic Storytelling: Towards an Enacted Organisational Role for the Hospital Visitor.
In: Vine, T., Richards, S.
(eds) Stories, Storytellers, and Storytelling .
Cham, Switzerland: Palgrave Macmillan, Cham.
Potkins, T.
& Vine, T.
Women, Bullying, and the Construction Industry: A Story of Veiled Gender Dynamics.
Cham, Switzerland: Palgrave Macmillan.
(2021) Bureaucracy, London: Routledge Vine, T.
(2021) ‘Institution(alization), bureaucracy and well-being?
An organizational ethnography of perinatal care in the NHS’, in Hayre, C.
& Hackett, P.
(eds) Handbook of Ethnography in Healthcare Research, London: Routledge
Vine, T (2020) ‘Teaching HE students with ASD: Towards a pedagogical framework’, Research and Public Engagement Conference , University of Suffolk, 13th March 2020 [Through competition]
(2020) ‘The commodification of re-sacralised work in the neoliberal era’, in Taylor, S., Bell, E., Gog, S.
& Simionca, A.
(eds) Spirituality, Organization and Neoliberalism, Cheltenham: Edward Elgar Vine, T.
(2020) ‘Brexit, Trumpism and Paradox: Epistemological Lessons for the Critical Consensus’, Organization 27(3): 466-482 Vine, T (2019) ‘ Towards a critical understanding of Industry 4.0, the Internet of Things and Artificial Intelligence’, Binus University (Indonesia) [Through invitation]
Konnovs, H.
(2019) ‘Enhancing the employment prospects of young people with Autism Spectrum Disorder’, Journal of Social Sciences and Allied Health Professions,  2 (1), e7 - e17
Vine, T (2018) ‘Assessment by diorama: Fabricating wabi-sabi’, (Presented at the Standing Conference on Organisational Symbolism (SCOS) and Australasian Caucus of Standing Conference on Organisational Symbolism (ACSCOS), Tokyo, Japan: 17th-20th August, 2018 ) [Through competition]
(2018) ‘The Sociology of Things: A response to Peter Cochrane’, University of Suffolk Research Blog: Vine, T., Clark, J., Richards, S., & Weir, D.
(eds) (2018) Ethnographic Research and Analysis: Anxiety, Identity and Self, London: Palgrave Macmillan Vine, T.
(2018) ‘Methodology: From Paradigm to Paradox’, in Vine, T., Clark, J., Richards, S., & Weir, D.
(eds) (2018) Ethnographic Research and Analysis: Anxiety, Identity and Self , London: Palgrave Macmillan
(2018) ‘Home-grown Exoticism: Ethnographic Tales from a Scottish New Age Intentional Community’, in Vine, T., Clark, J., Richards, S., & Weir, D.
(eds) (2018) Ethnographic Research and Analysis: Anxiety, Identity and Self, London: Palgrave Macmillan
Vine, T (2017) ‘Brexit, Trump & Complexity’, (Presented at Critical Management Studies, Liverpool, 3rd-5th July, 2017) [Through competition]
Vine, T (2017) ‘Organizational identity in a post-secular world’, (Presented at the Oxford Symposium on Religious Studies, University of Oxford, 15th-17th March, 2017) [Through competition]
Vine, T (2017) ‘Discursive closure in ecologically sensitive food production’ (Presented at the 12th Organization Studies Summer Workshop & Special Issue: Food, Organization Matters: Paradoxes, Problems and Potentialities , Crete 17th-20th May, 2017) [Through competition]
(2016) ‘Strong leadership: does it really make any difference?’, Professional Manager: The Chartered Management Institute Magazine, Autumn 2016 Vine, T.
(2016) ‘Post-referendum Britain: What are the lessons for managers?’, The  Chartered Management Institute online blog Boncori, I.
(2014) ‘‘Learning without thought is labour lost; thought without learning is perilous’: the importance of pre-departure training for expatriates working in China’, International Journal of Work, Organisation and Emotion 6(2) 155-177

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/about/get-in-touch/people-directory/school-of-business-arts-social-sciences-and-technology-/fran-hyde:
Fran is an Associate Professor in Marketing, having previously been a marketing practitioner before moving into marketing education.
Experienced but always curious, Fran's focus on 'social value' in marketing began during a presentation to a group of students from the Marketing Director of a Hospice.
By combining teaching with research, Fran works to ensure that students get to see firsthand how marketing can have a positive impact in society.
Fran is an active member of the Education Committee at the Academy of Marketing, as well as the Worshipful Company of Marketors.
She continues to volunteer within the charity sector currently undertaking the role of Chair of the Board of Trustees at St Helena Hospice, Colchester.
Fran holds the following qualifications
Hyde, F., (2025).
A Deeply Personal Affair: Stakeholder Engagement in Brand ‘Refresh’ Project of a Hospice.
Journal of Philanthropy , 30 (2), p.e70017.
Rundle-Thiele, S., Mitchell, S.L., Lee, Z.
and Hyde, F., (2024).
Refocusing marketing effort to support net-positive social impact.
European Journal of Marketing , 58 (7), pp.1806-1825.
Mitchell, S.L.
and Hyde, F.
eds., (2024).
The Future of Charity Marketing .
Taylor & Francis.
Hyde, F.
& Mitchell, S-L., (2022).
Charity Marketing: Contemporary Issues, Research and Practice.
Abingdon.
Harry’s most important work.
Marketing Theory.
Vol 20(2) pp.
211–218 Hyde, F.
(2020) A PhD with Teenagers.
Thesis Whisperer, July 2019

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/efe-imiren:
Efe began as an enterprise and entrepreneurship lecturer in the Suffolk Business School.
She is currently a Senior Lecturer in, and Course Leader of Business Management in the School of Business, Arts, Social Sciences and Technology.
A Senior Fellow of HEA, Efe was awarded a PhD in entrepreneurship at the University of Strathclyde.
Efe’s research engages with digital entrepreneurs and stakeholders in digital entrepreneurship ecosystems to explore the navigation of institutional complexity and to understand bifold practices in legitimising and perpetuating gendered phenomenon in digital contexts.
Efe brings into her lecture sessions over ten years of experience as a digital entrepreneur whilst drawing on cutting-edge research to inform her pedagogic practice.
In addition to conducting phenomenological research, Efe’s research and teaching interests include digital entrepreneurship, digitalisation, digital ecosystems, digital research methods, qualitative methodologies, and entrepreneurial practices in non-occidental contexts.
Efe has the following qualifcations
Efe is experienced in teaching and/or leading the following modules:
Efe also supervises dissertations and projects on the following modules:
Efe is currently a co-supervisor for the following doctoral projects:
Efe welcomes enquiries from prospective doctoral students interested in digital entrepreneurship, digitalisation, artificial intelligence, and its social impact including digital gendering and digital sustainability.
Entrepreneurship
Digitalisation
Research Methods
Efe has presented her research at international conferences including International Conference on Information Technology and Economic Development, Scottish Entrepreneurship Research Seminar (SERS) and ISBE Gender and Enterprise Confreat.
In addition, Efe continues to be a reviewer for The International Journal of Management Education, Academy of Management and ISBE conferences; and served as reviewer for International Information Management Association Conference and University of Strathclyde Doctoral School Multidisciplinary Symposium (DSMS).
Efe is a Senior Fellow of Higher Education Academy and a Member of Africa Tech Research also known as Research Forum Entrepreneurship Africa.
Efe is also an active member of

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/muhammed-mahmoud:
Muhammed is an Accounting and Finance lecturer at the School of Business, Arts, Social Science and Technology.
Before joining the University of Suffolk, Muhammed has been teaching at undergraduate and postgraduate levels in the UK and overseas, covering a wide range of accounting and finance modules since 2007.
Muhammed is a dedicated educator who is passionate about fostering the intellectual growth and professional development of his students.
His teaching philosophy is built on connecting scholarly concepts to real-life examples, which helps students grasp and apply concepts in a meaningful and practical way.
Muhammed holds a Bachelor's degree in Accounting from Mansoura University, Egypt, and a Master's degree in Finance from the University of the West of England.
He also now holds a PhD in Accounting (post viva voce), where he studied at Aston University.
He taught a wide range of accounting and finance modules including; Auditing I & II, Taxation, Principles of Financial Accounting I & II, Corporate Finance, Financial Statement Analysis, Financial Management, Cost Accounting, Management Accounting, and Intermediate Accounting I & II.
Teaching/contributing to:
-Auditing.
-Advanced Auditing.
-Principles of taxation.
-Advanced Taxation.
-Advanced Financial Accounting.
His research focuses on exploring CSR reporting practices between global and local contexts, through novel theoretical frameworks such as Actor-Network Theory (ANT).
His research interests include CSR, sustainability, Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) reporting, company analysis and valuation.
He is a Fellow of the Higher Education Academy and a member of Centre for Social and Environmental Research (CSEAR).

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/obinna-ejiogu:
Obinna was a Research Project Administrator within the Institute of Health & Wellbeing at the University of Suffolk.
Obinna is now teaches some modules at the Suffolk Doctoral College.
Obinna has a BSc in Engineering, a Master’s in Business Administration and an MSc in Finance.
Obinna is currently doing a PhD programme with Suffolk Doctoral College at the University of Suffolk.
Obinna has had years of working experience in the banking sector and NHS.
Obinna joined the University of Suffolk in October 2022.
Outside of work, Obinna loves watching and playing football.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/mark-edwards:
Mark Edwards is a renowned practitioner and academic whose work focuses on the exploration of landscape discourse within the contexts of painting and literature traditions in East Anglia.
He is known for his photographic work, which has been published and exhibited both nationally and internationally.
Edwards' contributions to the field of photography have earned him recognition, with his work being included in major photographic collections such as the Victoria and Albert Museum (V&A), Government Art Collection (including British Embassy, Berlin, The British High Commission, Islamabad & The HM Treasury, Horse Guards Road), The Hyman Collection of British photography, and The Norwich Museum and Art Gallery.
In addition, he has also been actively involved in research and academic pursuits.
He has delivered papers on his practice and research at national and international conferences, further contributing to the discourse surrounding his work and he continues to make significant contributions to the field through his artistic practice and research.
His most recent publication is a book chapter in W.
Sebald’s Artistic Legacies (University of Amsterdam), 2023.
Space & Place
Advanced Photographic Techniques
Degree Project (contributor)
Dissertation (contributor)
Professional Practice (contributor)
The primary focus of Marks’ research is the landscape tradition found in the painting and literature made broadly within the geographical and cultural boundaries of East Anglia and Essex.
This inquiry is underpinned by his photographic practice which is included in major photographic collections including the V&A Museum, The Government Art Collection, The Hyman Collection of British Photography and Norwich Museum.
It has been published and exhibited extensively both nationally and internationally with recent exhibitions including Spotlight, Norwich Castle Museum & Art Gallery, Norwich (2019-20), Into the Woods:  Photography & Trees, V&A Museum, London and A Green and Pleasant Land, Towner Gallery, Eastbourne (2017-18).
His work is also currently on display at the British Embassy, Berlin, the British High Commission, Islamabad and the Northern Ireland Office, London.
He has presented his research at numerous conferences including, Paul Mellon Centre University for Studies in British Art, Yale University, ( Countless Edens , 2020), University of Amsterdam, School for Heritage, Memory and Material Culture ( W.G.
Sebalds’ Artistic Legacies , 2019), The Photographers Gallery, London ( Personal Practice , 2019), Tate Britain, London ( Constable and the Weather , 2015), V&A Museum, London ( John Constable: The Making of a Master , 2014), Sainsbury Centre For Visual Arts, Norwich ( Monuments , 2014) and The Holburne Museum, Bath ( Landscape & Practice , 2012).
Selected Conference Papers
Landscapes & Vanitas, PhotoEast Festival, University of Suffolk, 2016
Messengers, Constable & the Weather, Tate Britain, 2015
Echoes & Affinities, Tate Aspire Project, Christchurch Mansion, Ipswich, 2015
Landscapes & Vanitas, Hestercombe Gallery, Taunton, 2015
We Bloom Where We Are Planted, Constable Study Day, V&A Museum, London, 2014
Monument, Sainsbury Centre For Visual Arts, Norwich, 2014
Shelter, The Research Colloquium, University Campus Suffolk, Ipswich, 2014
Space & Place, Vizualising the Rural, University of Cumbria, 2013.
Exhibition Catalogues
Double Take: Photography & the Garden, A Hestercombe Gallery, Exhibition, Taunton, 2015
Monument.
le musée des beaux arts de Calais, France Exhibition, Calais, 2014
Time & Place.
A SCVA & le musée des beaux arts de Calais, France Exhibition, Norwich, 2014
Revealed: The Government Art Collection.
Birmingham Museum and Art Gallery Exhibition, London, 2012.
Group Exhibitions (selected)
Inheritance, Norwich Castle Museum & Art Gallery, Norwich, 2018.
Into the Woods:  Photography & Trees, V&A Museum, London, 2017-18.
A Green and Pleasant Land, Towner Gallery, Eastbourne, 2017-18.
60 Years On, Norwich Castle Museum & Art Gallery, Norwich, 2016
Photo Speaks 2016, Art Space Gallery, SangMyung University, Seoul, Korea, 2016.
John Constable:  Observing the Weather, The Lightbox Gallery, Woking, 2016.
Collecting in East Anglia, Norwich Castle Museum & Art Gallery, Norwich, 2016.
Double Take: Photography & the Garden, Hestercombe Gallery, Taunton, 2015.
Monument, SCVA, Norwich  & le musée des beaux arts de Calais, France, 2014.
Places & Landscapes, The Waterfront Gallery, Ipswich, 2014.
Revealed: The Government Art Collection , Ulster Museum, Belfast, 2013.
Island Stories; Fifty Years of Photography in Britain, V&A Museum, London, 2012-13.
Solo Exhibitions (selected)
Art School, Original Projects, Great Yarmouth, 2017.
The View From Here; new landscape photographs by Mark Edwards, Norwich Castle Museum & Art Gallery, 2012.
The View From Here; new landscape photographs by Mark Edwards , The Holburne Museum, Bath, 2011-12.
Work in Public Collections
The V & A Museum, London
The Government Art Collection
Norwich Castle Museum & Art Gallery
East Contemporary Art
The Hyman Collection of British Photography

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/amanda-hodgkinson:
Dr Amanda Hodgkinson SFHEA is an award-winning internationally published novelist, journalist and writer.
Her writing research focuses on the representation of family relationships and narrative identity with a focus on historical fiction and the importance of place, and the role of memory in writing fiction and poetry.
Amanda teaches Creative Writing Workshops, Modernism, Autobiography and Life Writing, Narrative Theory, Historical Fiction, The Writer in Residence and the Dissertation Programme for the MA.
She supervises Creative Writing PhDs, and English Literature dissertations for both Undergraduate and Postgraduate.
Her pedagogical research interests in teaching are in entrepreneurial education and student-centred experiential learning.
Amanda currently supervises the following PhD projects:
The Stranger Sea: a novel.
A Rewilding of Nature Writing in the context of eco-criticism and environmental activism
H’s Code, a novel.
A creative re-assembly of a hidden life.
Writing Historical Fiction and Family Memory.
A Memoir of Marginalisation and Exclusion: Exploring the Quest for Identity and Belonging Within my Bi-Racial Family
The Muse of Vienna, a novel: Seeking truth in biographical research
Ghosts in the Landscape: Commemorating the Forgotten: developing art practice and creative writing to investigate the realism both forms seek to reach.
A phenomenological exploration of the lived experience of long-term illness as a transformative process in memoir and photography
No Expectations: how visual images can act as a catalyst for creation and build a body of ekphrastic poetry
Great Women’s Houses: Building Becoming in the Lives and Works of Woolf, Du Maurier, Christie and Winn
Exploring Children's Spirituality in their Early Years
Perils in the House: Investigating motherhood in the works of Agatha Christie
Amanda's research interests include historical fiction, the novel, literary fiction, storytelling, the short story and the role of memory, history, affective landscape and a sense of place and time in narrative.
Amanda is passionate about working with writers, helping them to realise their creative projects.
Writing and Journalism
Radio, UK journals, magazines and newspapers.
Short stories and poetry in anthologies, literary magazines and journals including, ‘Women’s Weekly Summer Short Story Editions,’ The Mail on Sunday.
The Daily Mail, The Telegraph, The Observer, The Times, Channel Four’s A Place in the Sun, The Lady, France Magazine, La Dépêche du Midi.
Exhibitions
Amanda regularly gives talks on writing in the UK and in Europe.
She offers writing workshops, mentoring, and promotes literature, reading and creative writing through the writing community at University of Suffolk and in the wider community.
She make worthwhile and meaningful connections between the craft of writing and the importance of storytelling skills in business and for personal well-being.
Amanda judges literary competitions and develops creative writing projects for exhibitions and publishing.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/dr-harvey-osborne:
Dr Harvey Osborne is the Course Leader for History at the University of Suffolk.
He is a historian of modern Britain with a particular interest in the history of the countryside and rural society.
He completed his BA (First Class), MA and PhD at the University of Lancaster, the latter funded by the Economic and Social Research Council (E.S.R.C.).
Current Undergraduate Teaching
History Skills, British Story, 1780-1985, Unquiet Countryside, 1750-1920, The Group Project: Work-related Learning in History, Dissertation (contributor).
Current Postgraduate Teaching
Local Places and Global Processes, Public History, Dissertation.
Current PhD Supervision
McGee, 'The reality and representation of female criminality in rural Suffolk, c.1780-1850'.
Markwell, “Such Methods of Barbarism”?
an exploration of public displays of violence towards campaigners for women’s suffrage in Britain, 1906-1916.
Glass, ‘High Hopes and High Farming.
Suffolk Agrarian Change 1815-1870, Farmers’ organisations, periodicals, and agricultural improvement’.
Birch, Assisted migration of the rural poor in Suffolk and its impact, 1830-1861.
Recent PhD Completions
V.
Aldous, ‘The Life, Work and Influence of John Darby (c.1553-1608/9), Surveyor, Map-Maker, Artist, Protestant and Social Climber’ 2024
Brenner, ‘Being Obliged in the Eighteenth-Century' 2024 (both with Dr Lisa Wade).
Lock, 'The effectiveness of the British Expeditionary Force (BEF) on the Western Front in 1917' 2025 (with Dr John Greenacre).
Nineteenth century rural society, crime and protest, field-sports, environmental history, fish and fisheries, oral history, WWI.
Selected publications (see ORCID ID: 0000-0001-9968-7663 for full listing)
Poachers, politicians, and the police: The Poaching Prevention Act of 1862 with J.
Archer and C.
Griffin forthcoming Rural History , 2025.
'"The Great Experiment": The impact of the Great War on the British Commercial Sea Fishing Industry, Fisherman and Fish' in Y.Carbonnier, S.Curveiller and Laurent Warlouzet (ed.), Conflits autour du Detroit du Pas de Calais , (Calais, 2020), pp.91-108.
'Workhouse disorder in Suffolk, 1835-1855' in Nick Amor and Evelyn Lord (ed.), Shaping the Past, Theme, Time and Place in Local History , (Hatfield, 2020), pp.153-165.
'John Bright’s Poacher: Poaching, politics and the illicit trade in live game in early Victorian England', Agricultural History Review , 66, 2, 2018, pp.215-237.
‘Unwomanly practices’: Poaching crime, gender and the female offender in the nineteenth-century, Rural History , 27, 2, 2016, pp.
149–168.
‘The Development of Salmon Angling’, in Richard Hoyle (ed.), Our Hunting Fathers, (Lancaster, 2007).
‘Rural and Urban Poaching in Victorian England’, (with Dr Michael Winstanley), Rural History , 17, 2, 2006, pp.187-212.
‘The Seasonality of Nineteenth-Century Poaching’, Agricultural History Review , 48, 1, 2000, pp.27-41.
‘Tithing and the Swing Disturbances of 1830 in East Anglia’, British Agricultural History Society Spring Conference, Bury St Edmunds, 24th April 2025.
‘Fish, Fishing and Fishermen during the First World War’, Conflits Autour du Detroit De La Fin Du Moyen Age Au XXI Siecle, Colloque Historique, Calais, 7-8th April 2018.
‘John Bright’s Poacher 1804-1891’, British Agricultural History Society Spring Conference, Plumpton, Lewes, 3rd April 2017.
‘Public history and British Commemorations of WWI: The Suffolk Regiment at Arras’, University of Artois Conference on ‘The Battle of Arras (9 April-16 May 1917): The economic and social evolution of WWI on the Western Front in a pivotal year’, Arras, France, 4th April 2017.
‘‘Unwomanly practices’: Poaching crime, gender and the female offender in the nineteenth-century’, 31st March 2015, Conference of the Social History Society, University of Portsmouth, 29 March-2 April 2015.
‘Protest and Disorder in the Early-Victorian Workhouse: Suffolk, 1835-55’, Captain Swing Reconsidered: 40 years of Rural History from Below, Special Conference of the Southern History Society, University of Reading, 21 March 2009.
‘Gamekeepers and Poachers in Late Victorian England’, Field Sports and Rural Society since 1850, British Agricultural History Special Conference, University of Reading, Spring 2004.
‘The Strange Decline of Poaching Crime in Late Victorian England’, British Agricultural History Society, Spring Conference, 2001.
Media (TV and Radio Appearances)
Akenfield Now - Contributor to BBC Radio 4 Akenfield Now, 19 October 2019 https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/m0009jcr
Rag and Bone Industry – Contribution to BBC 1 The One Show, 9 February 2011 http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b00yhxfk
‘Poaching’ – Contribution to BBC Radio 4 Open Country, 11 June 2005 http://www.bbc.co.uk/radio4/factual/opencountry_20050611.shtml

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/dr-michael-sauter:
Michael Sauter is Associate Professor of History at the University of Suffolk.
He is an historian of early modern Europe, with specialisations in intellectual history and the history of science.
He completed his BA at Drew University ( magna cum laude , Phi Beta Kappa), his MA at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, and his PhD at the University of California, Los Angeles.
As a recipient of a Major Research Grant from the Leverhulme Trust, Dr.
Sauter will not have teaching responsibilities between October 2024 and September 2027.
Selected publications (see ORCID ID: 0000-0001-5930-0380 for full listing)
European Thought and Culture, 1350-1992: Burdens of Knowing (London and New York: Routledge, 2021)
The Spatial Reformation: Euclid Between Man, Cosmos and God (Philadelphia, Penn.: The University of Pennsylvania Press, 2018).
Visions of the Enlightenment: The Edict on Religion of 1788 and Political Reaction in Prussia , Brill’s Studies in Intellectual History, vol.
177 (Leiden, NL: Brill, 2009).
Book Manuscript Under Review
The Cartographic Fool: Maps, Religion, and Visual Culture in Renaissance Europe
Under review at Walter DeGruyter in Berlin, this study examines cartography, printmaking, and visual culture in Belgium, France, Germany, and the Netherlands in the sixteenth century.
Publications in Refereed Journals
“Becoming a Bourgeois Killer: Peter Kürten, the Vampire of Düsseldorf,” German History (forthcoming).
“The Starry Heavens: Outer Space and the Transformation of Anthropology in the Early Modern Period,” Historia y Grafía (November, 2016).
“The Enlightenment on Trial: State Service and Social Control in Eighteenth-Century Germany’s Public Sphere,” Modern Intellectual History (August, 2008).
“Clock Watchers and Stargazers: Time Discipline in Early-Modern Berlin,” American Historical Review (June, 2007).
“Preaching, a Ponytail, and an Enthusiast: Rethinking the Public Sphere’s Subversiveness in Eighteenth-Century Prussia,” Central European History (December, 2004).
Co-authored, “Paris and the Rise of Clinical Medicine during the French Revolution and Under Napoleon,” Osiris (July, 2003).
Co-authored, “Why did Humphry Davy Not Explore the Pain-Alleviating Properties of Nitrous Oxide?” Journal of the History of Medicine and Allied Sciences (April, 2002).
Refereed Book Chapters and other Publications
“Simmel’s Berlin and Money as Social Consensus,” in Jason Coy, Benjamin Marschke and Jared Poley, eds., Money in the German States (New York: Berghahn Books, 2017).
“For the Love of Geometry: The Rise of Euclidism in the Early Modern World, 1450-1850,” in Jason Coy, Benjamin Marschke, Jared Poley, and Claudia Verhoeven, eds., Kinship and Community Society and Culture in European History (New York: Berghahn Books, 2015).
“The First Globalization: Celestial and Terrestrial Globes in the Early Modern Period” in Gudrun Wolfschmidt, ed., Der Himmel über Tübingen: Barocksternwarten-Landesvermessung-Hochenergieastrophysik (Hamburg: tredition, 2014).
“Leonhard Euler,” in Manfred Kuehn and Heiner Klemme, eds., Dictionary of Eighteenth-Century German Philosophers (Bristol: Thoemmes Continuum, 2010).
“Visions of the Enlightenment: Johann Christoph Woellner and Prussia’s Edict on Religion of 1788,” in John Christian Laursen, et.
al., Monarchists and Monarchisms in the Eighteenth Century (Toronto: University of Toronto Press, 2007).
“The Enlightenment on Trial: Religion, Resistance, and the Public Sphere in Eighteenth-Century Prussia,” (in Spanish) Istor (January, 2004).
“Reinhart Koselleck” in Alan C.
Kors, ed., The Oxford Encyclopedia of the Enlightenment (New York: Oxford University Press, 2002).
“Freemasonry” in Derek Jones, ed., Censorship: A World Encyclopedia (London: Fitzroy Dearborn, 2001).
“Critiques Unspoken: Religion, Visual Culture and the Global Imagination in Renaissance Europe,” 12th Congress on Economic History, Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil, November 23, 2021.
“God and the Cartographic Fool: Belgian Printmaking in the Sixteenth Century,” Instituto de Estudos Avançados da Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil, June 24, 2019.
“From Space to Place: Books, Images, and Material Culture in the Rise of a Global Imagination,” Universidade de São Paulo , Conjunto Didático de História e Geografia da Faculdade de Filosofia Letras e Ciências Sociais da Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil, May 20, 2019
* Keynote Address * “The Spatial Reformation,” Gulf University of Science and Technology , Unity between East and West Conference, Kuwait City, Kuwait, February 9, 2019.
* Keynote Address * ”“Public Clocks and Pocketwatches: The Rise of Time Discipline in Eighteenth-century Europe,” 26º Simpósio Internacional de Iniciação Científica e Tecnológica, Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil, November 23, 2018.
“Relocating “Global” Knowledge: Colonial Latin American Libraries and the European Spatial Imagination,” University of California, Los Angeles , Conference on Historical Epistemology, Los Angeles, CA, May 18, 2018.
“Eden’s End: Geography and the Humanization of Space, 1550-1650,” McGill University and The Newberry Library , The Politics of Conversion IV, Chicago, IL, September 15, 2017.
“Deracinating the Divine: Albrecht Dürer’s Melencolia I Between Theology and the Rise of Geometry,” McGill University and CIDE , The Politics of Conversion III, Mexico City, March 9, 2017.
“Alexander von Humboldt,” CIDE , Unveiling the Portrait of Humboldt and the Vintage Map of Mexico, Mexico City, February 23, 2017.
* Keynote Address * “The Spatial Reformation: Euclidean Geometry and the Transformation of Western Thought, 1350 – 1850,” Autonomous Metropolitan University (UAM)-Iztapalapa , Colloquium on Critical Engagement with the History of Europe, January 29, 2015.
“The First Globalization: Terrestrial and Celestial Globes in the Early Modern Period,” University of Tübingen Conference for the History of Astronomy, Tübingen, Germany, September 22, 2013.
“Strangers to the World: Astronomy and the Rise of Early-Modern Anthropology,” Institute for Advanced Study , Göttingen, Germany, July 3, 2013.
“Clockwatchers and Stargazers in the 18th Century,” Hamburg Observatory , Hamburg, Germany, January 16, 2013.
“Making Human Space: Globes and the Spatial Imagination, 1450-1600,” Duke University , FNI Conference: Visual Acuity and the Arts of Communication in Early Modern Germany, Durham, NC, March 30, 2012.
“Germans in Space: Astronomy and Anthropologie in the Eighteenth Century,” Clark Library , Spaces of the Self in Early Modern Culture Part 2 – Sites of Exteriority, Los Angeles, CA, November 30, 2007.
“Germans in Space: Astronomy and Anthropologie in the Eighteenth Century,” University of Indiana at Bloomington , Bloomington Eighteenth-Century Workshop, Bloomington, IA, August 24, 2007.
“Clockwatchers and Stargazers: The 'Public' Origins of Time Discipline in Eighteenth-Century Berlin,” Duke University , FNI Conference: Orthodoxies and Diversities, Durham, NC, April 8, 2005.
“Lost in Space: Astronomy and the Boundaries of the German Mind, 1686-1791,” University of South Florida , The Nineteenth Annual DeBartolo Conference, Tampa, FL, February 18, 2005.
* Keynote Address * “Europe as Export Product: Germany and the Problem of Europe since AD 1000,” Annual Meeting of German Teachers in Mexico, Mexico City, May 14, 2004.
* Keynote Address * “Preachers, Ponytails, and Enthusiasm: On the Nature of Subversiveness in Eighteenth-Century Prussia,” National Autonomous University of Mexico (UNAM) , Homage to Immanuel Kant: Reason-Liberty-Right, Two Centuries Since His Death, February 12, 2004.
Sauter’s current research on libraries in colonial Latin America will take him to Spain, Argentina, Peru, and Mexico.
Sauter serves as Associate Editor, Reviews for the journal Central European History , which is published by Cambridge University Press.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/dr-nicola-foster:
Nicola joined the University of Suffolk in October 2022 as an Associate Professor in Visual Arts, to develop the PhD programme in creative practices, with an emphasis on practice-based research in Visual Arts.
She is an experienced academic and researcher and has taught visual arts, history of art, museum studies, politics and international relations.
Nicola's research makes full use of her interdisciplinary academic background.
Her academic background covers continental philosophy, art practice, history of art, museum studies and curatorial practices, as well as politics and international relation.
She was actively involved in the debate that led to the establishment of 'practice-based' research in the UK, and she has a long experience in successfully supporting PhD students to completion in practice-based research and traditional research approaches in the arts.
She also supervised Research Students at the University of the Arts London, Cardiff University, Arts University Bournemouth, Arts University Norwich, the Open University and Solent University, Southampton.
Nicola is a member of the AHRC College Peer Review (2007-), AHRC Panel member, and continues to serve on the AHRC when required.
She was a Trustee of the Association for Art History (2011-2017), with a focus on research and museums.
She was a member of the Editorial Board of Women's Philosophy Review (1998-2004) and on the Editorial Board of the European Journal of Artistic Research (2011-2016).
She served on many museum panels, contributed to exhibitions, and mentored curators.
She is currently on the Panel of the University's Art Collection.
Nicola's teaching focus is in Research Degrees.
Nicola welcomes inquiries from prospective students in visual arts (practice-based, text based, creative writing) or other creative and/or academic approaches to visual art and culture, art institutions, the art market, art and politics/International Politics, exhibitions, and curatorial practices.
Nicola is currently supervising the following topics
Previous theses included
Nicola's current research focus is in exploring the ways in which cultural value is constructed through visual works, curatorial practices and art institutions (museums, galleries, publics & private funders, the art market) as well as the role played by their changing publics.
Her research explores the way in which the above contribute towards the construction of art works and curatorial practices in the context of gender, race, culture and post/de-colonial debates.
Nicola's perspective is philosophical but her focus is on the practice of art and curatorial projects by looking at how it is enacted and materialised in global visual works and curatorial practices.
She is interested in facilitating creative practices which construct images and concepts that allow us to discuss the natural and human worlds differently and question existing values towards a more egalitarian and just society.
Guest Editor, Journals
Davidson, J.
& Foster, N.
(eds) Special Issue:  Restaging Exhibitions, Journal of Curatorial Studies (Intellect) November 2019
Florence, P.
(eds) Special Issue on Aesthetics , Women’s Philosophy Review , No.25 Autumn 2000
Edited Books
(eds) Differential Aesthetics: Art Practices, Philosophy and Feminist Understandings .
2000, Ashgate
Chapters in Edited Volumes
'Between East and West: Nushu and philosophy', in Eason Lu & Fei-Wen Liu (eds.), Re-Discovering Nüshu: An Interdisciplinary Inquiry into the Female-Only Scrip t, Brill, in preparation
'Conceptual Art as Curatorial Practice: The Rijksmuseum's Slavery (2021) & The Fitzwilliam Museum's Black Atlantic: Power, People, resistance (2023 & 2025)' in Marta Jeco (ed.) Conceptual Art as a Method:  Towards an Inclusive Museology in Material Culture Museums , Routledge in preparation
'The Women of Nüshu, China: Art Education as Institutional Critique?' in Sandra Neugaertner's Toward a New Aesthetics: Institutional Criticism in Art Education from 1900 to Today , forthcoming Brill
'Globalisation, Human Labour and the Poetics of the Sea: Alan Sekula and Ai Weiwei' in Hybrid Marines , (eds) Bryan Biggs and Gabriel Gee, University of Amsterdam Press, (forthcoming)
'Contemporaneity as Curatorial Practice: Three Exhibitions of “Black Models” as Modernity', in eds.
Handberg, K.
Hansen, M.
Madsen, B.
Curating the Contemporary in the Art Museum, Routledge, 2023
'The Gift: Uli Sigg and the Emerging Chinese Contemporary Art Canon' (Le don: Uli Sigg et le canon émergent de l’art chinois contemporain) pages 92-107, in Orient Extrême: regards croisés sur les collections modernes et contemporaines, (Far East: Crossed Views on Modern and Contemporary Collections) eds.
Marie Laureillard & Cléa Patin.
Lyons, Hemispheres
‘Anthropology, Mythology and Art: Reading Beuys Through Heidegger’ in Beuysian Legacies in Ireland and Beyond: Art, Culture and Politics , ed.
Lerm-Hayes LIT Verlag as part of the European Studies in Culture and Policy series, 2011
‘Nikki de Saint Phalle's Hon : An Ethics Through the Visual?’  in Art, History and the Senses P.
di Bello and G.
Koureas (eds.) 2010, Ashgate
Refereed Journal Articles
'Curators as Keepers and Exhibition Makers: The British Museum's African Galleries'.
Museum History Journal (Taylor and Francis), forthcoming
'Nushu in Translation: Visual Art and Dance', Journal of Art in Translation ,  (Taylor & Francis), Volume 11, issue 4, (393-416), February 2020
'Re-Staging Difference: Re-staging Origin?' Journal for Curatorial Studies, Intellect,  Volume 8 issue 2, (232-258), November 2019
'The Art Market and Politics: The Case of the Sigg Collection', Journal for Art Market Studies , on-line, May 2019.
https://fokum-jams.org/index.php/jams/article/view/85/158
‘”Chineseness”: The work of Lo Yuenyi in Memory of the Women of Nushu', Journal of Contemporary Chinese Art ,  Intellect, vol.
3 issues 1&2 (131-152) Autumn 2016
'Photography and the Gaze: The Ethics of Vision Inverted', Parallax Issue 47, vol.
14, number 2, (78-92), Spring 2008
‘The Eurydice Complex', review article on Matrixial Borderspace, Radical Philosophy , January 2008
Photography as social Archaeology: Riga’ article and photographs Street Signs autumn 2006, published by the Centre for Urban and Community Research, Goldsmiths College
Review article of Gender and Aesthetics , by Carolyn Korsmeyer & Differences and Excess in Contemporary Art , by Gill Perry, British Journal of Aesthetics, (July 2005, Vol.
45, no 3)
‘Boundaries of Sight and Touch: Memoirs of the Blind and the Caressed’ (Re-Reading Drawing(s): Derrida, Irigaray and Nancy Spero), Published in (CD format) Drawing Across Boundaries , ed.
Judith Mottram, LUSAD, 1998.
Now also in Tracey Issue 1, 1999, on-line
Review article, Feminism and Tradition in Aesthetics , eds.
P.Z.
Brand and C.
Korsmeyer.
Women’s Philosophy Review no.
19, Autumn 1998
Review of Body-and Image-Space: Re-Reading Walter Benjamin by S.
Weigel.
Women’s Philosophy Review , No.
18, Spring 1998
‘On Husserl’, Women’s Philosophy Review , no.
17, Autumn 1997
'Art and the Politics: Beware of Exiting Your Dreams: You Might Find Yourself  in Somebody's Else's (2000)', Power Relations and Historical Turning Points , University of Stockholm, Soderton, 27-28 April 2025
'Work and Labour as Art and Maintnance: The Works of Ukeles', Visual Arts,  Narrative and Social Class , University of Turku Finland, 24-25 April 2025
' A Future for the Past?
(2024-5): Constructing Multiple Temporal Narratives', Annual Conference of the Association for Art History , York University, 10-12 April 2025
'Jean Tinguely at the Bachelor Machines (1975): the Machines and the Myths of Masculinity', Jean Tinguely re-visited ,  Museum Tnguely, Basel, 20-22 March 2025
'Participatory Art as the future: Szeemann's Epicentre Ljubljana (1997), and Blood & Honey: Future's in the Balkans (2003), in Exhibiting in Slovenia III, Ljubljana, 11-12 April 2024
'Art and Democracy Post 1989: Harald Szeemann's Beware of Exiting Your Dreams (2001) and Blood & Honey (2003)', in Cultural Heterologies and Democracy II , Tallinn, 26-28 June 2024
'Contemporary Art Interventions: The Rijksmuseum exhibition REVOLUSI !',  Re-inventing Museology:  The Role of Conceptual Art.
Foundation Maison des sciences de l'homme, Paris.
6-7 October 2022
'Ai Weiwei's Life Cycle: A Hybrid Marine Story', Association for Art History Annual Conference, University of Birmingham, 17 April 2021
'Re-staging Practices as Conservation: The conservation of Contemporary Art' in Conservation and Philosophy UCLA on-line, 26-27 November 2020
'The Heritage of Nushu in Art Works: Literature, Visual Art, Dance, Film and Music, in the biennial conference of the Association of Critical Heritage Studies, University College London (on-line), 26–30 August 2020
'Artists and Corporate Organisations: Ai Weiwei and LEGO' in More Than Money: Art In Organisations, University of Amsterdam, 20–21 March 2020
'Contemporary Curatorial Approaches: Re-staging Black Models at the Musee d'Orsay', in Curating the Contemporary in the Art Museum, University of Copenhagen, 12-13 March 2020
'Exhibition Reconstruction: When Attitudes Become Form, Bern1969/Venice 2013 ', in 'Reconstruction: Method and Practices in Research, Exhibitions, and Conservation'.
University of Cambridge, 24-25 February 2020
'The Ethics of Intangible Art' in Bridging the Gap: Conservation of Contemporary Art.
University of Maastricht, 24-27 March 2019
'Decolonising Colonial Artefacts at the British Museum' in Decolonising Heritage: Border Thinking, Border Practices.
University of Hangzhou 1-6 September 2018
'Bracketing Categories: Contemporaneity' in Changing Global Hierarchies of Value?
University of Copenhagen, 20 August 2018
'A Controversial Contribution to Art and Culture: Jiang Qing and the Cultural Revolution' in Celebrating Female Agency in the Arts, Christie's Education, New York (USA), 26- 27 June 2018
'Re-Staging the Rent Collection at the 48 th Venice Biennale: Re-thinking Temporality', in Re-staging Exhibitions: Past, Present, Futures?
CAA Los Angeles (USA), 23 February 2018
'The Visual Discourse of “Home” Through the Ideological Divide', joined paper with Fran Norton in Narrating Home in Visual Arts Through an East West Divide.
University of Stockholm 24– 25 January 2018
'Three Contemporary Translations of Nushu: Dance, Music, Visual Art' in Art In      Translation, University of Edinburgh, 16-17 October 2017
'China at the Venice Biennale: Art and Politics'.
The Politics of Display: Collateral Events and Pavilions at the Venice Biennale, University of St.
Andrews, 24 November 2017
'The Contemporaneity of Nushu in the work of three artists: Tan Dun, Helen Lai and Yuenyi Lo', The Contemporary Contemporary, Aarhus Denmark, 16-18 June 2017
'The “Opacity” of Contemporary Chinese Art Histories' (AAH Annual Conference) University of Loughborough, 8 April 2017
'Gender and Patronage: 3 Women Collectors of Contemporary Chinese Art'.
With Sylvia Schlegel.
University of Loughborough, 6 April 2017
'The Promise of Art for an Urban Future'.
Imagining the Future: Community Innovation and Social Resilience in Asia.
The Chinese University of Hong Kong.
20-23 February 2017
'China Dream meeting another Dream: the case of Uli Sigg'.
University of Stockholm, Exploring the China Dream.
15-16 August 2016
'The case of Uli Sigg: Collector, Agent, Advisor and Promoter of Contemporary Chinese Art'.
Warburg Institute, University of London, Collecting and Display: The Art market, Collectors and Agents: Then and Now, 13 July 2016
'Two Exhibitions: The Shanghai Biennial and Guangzhou Triennial.
University of Edinburgh' (AAH annual conference).
Co-Convenor of the AAH Session: The City in the Biennial.
7-9 April 2016
'Contemporary art Collectors and Emerging art Canon: the Case of Uli Sigg'.
Lyon, ESN & Muse des Confluences.
The Far East: Collectors and Collections today, 23-24 March 2016
'Thailand and China at the Venice Biennale'.
London, Senate House, The Venice Biennale and the Art Market, 3-5 February 2016
'Towards The Construction of an Alternative 'Chineseness' in the work of Yueni Lo' – Indirect Speech, 'Chineseness' in Contemporary Art Discourse and Practice, Art Market, Curatorial Practices and Creative Process, Lisbon, 16-19 March 2015
'Heidegger's Late Work as Conceptual writing' – Annual conference of the American College of Art conference, Chicago, 13 February 2014
'The Rhythm of East West Dialogues in the work of three Thai Contemporary Artists' – Annual Conference AAH Reading, 2013
'The Ipswich Art School in the 1960's' transnational Flows in European Fine Art Education 1900-2000' AAH University of Reading, 2013
'Photography: the Materiality of the Event of Art?'  the Association of Art Historians Annual conference at the Glasgow School of Art, April 2010
‘Photography in the process of globalisation: a new form of (post-) colonisation or the practice through which difference can emerge?
Dublin School of Art and Design 27–29 June 2007
Invited respondent and Chair of the Round Table at the Photography Postgraduate Research Conference, University of Wales, Newport July 2006
‘Aesthetic Hybridity and the Dominance of the Visual’, Annual Conference of the Association of Art Historians , University of Leeds, 5-7 April 2005
‘The Use of Philosophy in Art and the use of art in philosophy’ in Uncertainty in Philosophy: The Learning Experience and Research , Regent’s Park College, University of Oxford, 29 October 2005
‘The Ethics of Performance: Yoko Ono and Marina Abramovic’ in East 05: Ethics into Aesthetics , August/October 2005, Norwich School of Art and Design
‘Rethinking Aesthetics: performance and the Object’ Relics of Performance , University of Ulster, Belfast, April 2005
‘The Philosopher and the Poet/Artist: The Resistance of Embodiment and Art in Heidegger’s Ontology’ Society for European Philosophy , 7 th Annual Conference, 26-28 August, University of Greenwich
‘Philosophy and the Work of Art: Aesthetics, History and Gender’, Discovering Aesthetics , July 2004, University College Cork, Ireland
‘Art, Truth and Gender in Heidegger’s Late works’, Aesthetics and Politics , University of Essex, September 2003, Society for European Philosophy
‘Towards an Aesthetics of Difference’ Writing Aesthetics , University of Leeds, May 2003, International Association of Philosophy and Literature
Conference Organiser
Poetic Translations: Conversations across the Plurality of Arts Disciplines in Visual Art Exhibitions.
Large international conference with the support of the visual arts PhD students.
Solent University, 16-17 December 2020
Double Session Chair (with Jane Chin Davidson) of 'Re-staging Exhibitions: Past, Present, Futures?' CAA, Los Angeles (USA) 21-25 February 2018
Session organiser (with Joel Robinson) The City in the Biennale Annual Conference of the Association of Art Historians, University of Edinburgh 2016
Co organiser of the annual conference of the Association of Photography in Higher Education 2008 at University of West of England
Goldsmiths College, London and the Society for Women in Philosophy: Philosophy, Feminism, Art and Society , November 2006
In collaboration with the University of Ulster Relics of Performance , University of Ulster, Belfast 29 April 2005
Nicola's research usually involves international collaboration with many International academics.
She has also collaborated with international academics on funded research projects.
Professional Membership and Activities
Honorary Affiliations

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/dr-susan-barnet:
Dr Barnet is an internationally exhibiting artist from Los Angeles now based in the UK.
Working across multiple media; including drawing, performance and installation, her practice employs anecdote and language towards a consideration of personal histories sited within larger political discourses.
She received her MFA in film from the California Institute of the Arts and completed her PhD at Kingston University with an exhibition at the Stanley Picker Gallery.
Studio Practice
Extended Practice
Research and Context
Critical Perspectives
Dr Barnet’s research has included the UAL cross-college collaboration between faculty and students, radical reThink, which hosted an international symposium at the ICA in 2017.
This collective focusses on building solidarities and enacting resilient alternatives to market-based models of education.
It strives towards the creation of open communities inclusive of students and educators.
An illustrated essay by radical rethink is included in the upcoming Radical Aesthetics-Radical Art, Art, Politics and the Pamphleteer published by Bloomsbury.
In her practice, Barnet’s attention lies with overlooked and obsolete aspects of daily life from collected reflections on individual experience.
Barnet’s recent project involving Mass Observation, the British movement begun in the early 20th century, employed archive materials towards re-appropriation and détournement.
Encompassing multiple outputs; from filmed performances to daily tweeting, extensive transcription to the creation of drawings, it was the subject of two exhibits at Five Years in London.
The work is the subject of The Everyday Press publication, Drawing and Other Writing and was included in PEER paper notes issue 3.
It has also been written about in poetics journal TRIPWIRE 11 out of Oakland, California.
radical reThink, ‘radical reThink(ing) HE’, in Radical Aesthetics-Radical Art (ed.), Art, Politics and the Pamphleteer , (London: Bloomsbury Publishing) upcoming
S.E.Barnet, ‘Semiotics of the Living Room: A Catalogue of Desire’ in Dana Duff (ed.), Catalogue: The Series (Los Angles: Echo Park Film Center, 2018) pp.
4-9
S.E.
Barnet, ‘Mass Observation’, in PEER (ed.), Paper Notes Issue 3, Booklet 1, (Amsterdam: Stichting Peer Paper Platform, 2016) pp 3-4
Barnet and S.
Morfill, ‘Drawing and Other Writing’ , (London: The Everyday Press, 2016)
Buuck, ‘Ghosts in the Archive’, SE Barnet at Five Years, (London: Five Years Publications, 2014) pp.
14-16
Windsor, ‘Domesticated’ SE Barnet at Five Years (London: Five Years Publications, 2014) pp.
23-24
Buuck, ‘Ghosts in the Archive’, in D.
Buuck (ed.) ¡Pop!
Tripwire 11, (Oakland: 2014) pp 216 - 222
M.A.
Greenstein, ‘Virtual Retrofit (or What Makes Computer Gaming So Damn Racey?, in A.
Clarke and G.
Mitchell, Videogames and Art , Second Edition (Bristol UK/Chicago USA: Intellect, 2013) pp.
275-285
‘radical reThink’: A Case Study, College Art Association, New York, 2018
‘radical reThink’, Rudi Dutschke: political activist, political refugee, political threat?
Symposium at Lucy Cavendish College, Cambridge, GB, May 2017.
‘radical reThink’s NOVEMBER, (organizer) Camberwell, Chelsea, Wimbledon Colleges of Art Graduate School, London, November 2016.
‘In praise of plagiarism: a borrower’s tour of various authors’ works on reading & writing’, How to Write: Reading Groups, Five Years, London, 2015.
‘On the Diagram’, DRUGG - Diagram Research Use & Generation Group, the Slade, London, 2012.
‘After Hotel Palenque’, Sin Podium: Speaking of Writing, Reading University, 2009.
‘A Travel Archive’, Art & Travel Roundtable Symposium” Stanley Picker Gallery, Kingston, 2009.
The Empty Gallery Interviews, Resonance FM, September 2010.
Exhibitions (selected)
WELCOME, Waterfront Gallery, Ipswich, 2019
What is written, what is said , Poetic Research Bureau, LA, California, US (collaborator D.
Buuck) and Berlin, Germany (collaborator D.
Buob), 2017.
A day of continual irritation for myself , Five Years, London, 2014.
General title given by myself , Five Years, London, 2013.
Does God Live in the No-Fly Zone , Occurrence, Montreal, 2012.
Story of Elsewhere , Stanley Picker Gallery, Kingston, 2011.
Here, There, Everywhere , Stanley Picker Gallery, 2011.
Does God Live in the No-Fly Zone , Five Years, London, 2009.
Selected Group Exhibitions
Unboxed, The Art Station, Saxmundham, 2019
What is written, what is said , Annihilation Event, Lethaby Gallery, London, 2017.
Management Architecture Research , Market of Values, Critical Practice Research, Chelsea College Art, 2015.
Reading Flann O’Brien , Hidden in Plain Sight, NUA Art Gallery, Norwich, 2015.
I don’t play anything , Alan Magee at DOLPH Projects, London, 2014.
Reading Artists’ Writing , Appropriation Beyond the Object, Banner Repeater, London, 2013.
Untitled , Making Knowledge, Central St.
Martin’s, London, 2013.
Under Cover , Hotbed: Video Cultivation, J.
Paul Getty Museum, LA, California, 2008.
Untitled , The Art of Research: Research Narratives, Chelsea College Art, 2008.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/noel-bowler-0:
Noel joined the Photography Department at the University of Suffolk as a full time lecturer in 2015.
Born in Ireland, He holds an MFA with distinction in Photography from University of Ulster, Belfast and a BA (Hons) Degree in Documentary Photography from the University of Wales, Newport and he is a Fellow of the Higher Education Authority.
His work has been exhibited worldwide including New York Photofestivel and Les Recontres d’Arles.
He has extensive experience of exhibiting his work with long established galleries and venues including; Impressions Gallery, Bradford, The Design Museum London, Belfast Exposed Gallery and The Gallery of Photography, Dublin and RPS Tokyo.
Bowler has been nominated for the Deutsche Borse Photography Prize in 2011 and for the Prix Pichtet Photography Prize in 2012, 2015 and 2016.
Photography, Level 4  Portrait and Light       (Module Leader)
Photography, Level 5  Individual Practice      (Module Leader)
Photography, Level 6  Degree Module          (Module Leader)
Photography, Level 6  Dissertation Module  (Module Contributor)
His work has continued to examine the idea of ‘the institution’ (In a global sense) and the effects of change and circumstance on these institutions and the ideals we take for granted.
From the changing face of the world labour market in the time of a global recession, to the evolution of the global newspaper newsroom, his photographs, exhibitions and publications have looked at the ongoing consideration of the political forces that shape our world reflected through the organisation of social space.
He has extensive experience in exhibiting and publishing his work with long established galleries and publishers.
He has a long track record of continually producing high quality outputs for research both on time and in budget.
He have delivered international presentations of these works in Europe, The United States and Japan.
Within a corporate context he has more than five years experience of corporate governance and best practice on the Board of Directors at Source Magazine.
Selected Exhibitions
2021   Adastral Park, Grand Launch of new work (assoc.with UOS/Digitech Centre)
2020   Helsinki Photofestival, Helsinki, Finalnd.
Above The Fold
2020   Waterfront Gallery,London Met, CASS, Above The Fold
2020   Waterfront Gallery, UOS, Above The Fold
2019   New Commission, Liverpool Irish Festival
2018   Impressions Gallery, Bradford, England (Union)
2018   Remainders Stronghold Gallery, Tokyo, Japan (Union)
2017   Waterfront Gallery, University of Suffolk (Union)
2017   Gallery of Photography, Ireland (Union)
2016   New Irish Works, Paris Photo, Paris 2016
2016   New Irish Works, Library Project, Dublin
2015   Dali International Photography Festival, Yunan, China
Selected Publications (monographs)
Bowler, N.
(2021) Above The Fold.
Kehrer Verlag,
(2016) New Irish Works, Paris Photo, PhotoIreland
(2015) Union.
Kehrer Verlag

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/dr-jane-watt:
Jane is a practicing artist and researcher.
She has exhibited nationally and internationally, as well as undertaken large scale public art commissions, for almost thirty years.
She studied Drawing and Painting at Edinburgh College of Art at undergraduate and postgraduate level and completed of her PhD in 2002 at Manchester Metropolitan University.
Since then, she has developed modes of critical engagement in multi-media, site-specific installation through practice-based and field research.
Prior to her joining University of Suffolk in 2010, she held academic teaching and research posts at Roehampton University and Middlesex University.
Jane is a Senior Fellow of the Higher Education Academy (SFHEA).
Jane has extensive teaching experience across all levels of Fine Art and currently leads the following modules:
Drawing: representing and recording
Professional Engagement
Degree Project
She is a primary PhD supervisor in the fields of public and engaged art practice, site-specific and installation in practice-based and case study Fine Art research
Jane has developed modes of critical engagement and collaboration in site-specific installation and engaged practice through practice-based and field research.
Her research focuses on how artists negotiate with, and involve, people and place.
She examines practical, social, heritage, environmental and well-being issues and how these influence the creative process of the artist and the community in which she works.
The primary evidence that she gathers through practical engagement, observation, interview, discussion and presentation with others directly informs her engaged art practice.
She is currently co-investigator and part of the Leadership Team for ARISE (2024-28), a ground-breaking research project funded by UKRI which seeks to develop resilience within the UK’s coastal seas and communities.
ARISE is an inclusive collaboration among: local, regional, and national authorities; coastal residents, heritage groups and people who care about UK coasts; and experts in policy analysis, cultural engagement, creative practice, health sciences, biological sciences, computer science, pollution management, disaster studies, environmental sciences, economics, and geography.
She is working with colleagues from across the Schools of Allied Health Science, Technology, Business and Arts and the Suffolk Sustainability Institute here at University of Suffolk, as well as across the Eastern Arc Academic Consortium: University of Essex, University of East Anglia and University of Kent.
https://easternarc.ac.uk/arise/
In 2021 she founded Blast Radius with artist researcher Dr Susan Barnet, a collaborative and interdisciplinary research project bringing together specialists in art, heritage and environmental science to use analogue and digital technologies (art, film, and photography, including 3-d scanning and VR) with wildlife, ecology and history/heritage research.
As part of this project they were commissioned to make a short film Longshore Drift for British Art Network’s Landscape Research Group supported by Paul Mellon Centre for Studies in British Art and Tate.
They are currently leading a long-term research project Power House on Orford Ness, in partnership with The National Trust.
This project explores new ways in which to examine this unique internationally significant nature reserve and former military testing site through artist-led research, public exchange and presentation.
https://blastradius.uk
In 2020-21 Jane was co-investigator with artist Sara Heywood in a collaborative knowledge exchange project Mulberry – Tree of Plenty in collaboration with Dr David Chau, Associate Professor in Biomaterials and Allied Subjects at the Eastman Dental Institute, UCL.
The project explored the materiality of the mulberry tree in Bethnal Green, east London.
It considered how this iconic tree can be used as a vehicle to stimulate discussion, debate and engagement in cutting-edge research and applications in biotechnology, heritage and contemporary engaged art practice.
Over the course of a year, the team engaged with local participants and tree specialists to investigate points within the yearly cycle of the mulberry to frame their material exploration of bark, leaves, pollen, and fruit.
The project was commissioned as part of Trellis: a UCL Culture and UCL East programme and funded by EPSRC.
https://www.ucl.ac.uk/culture-online/trellis-2020-21
Find out more about Jane’s art practice: www.janewattprojects.com
Conferences and Symposia Papers
Watt and Barnet (2025) ‘Methods of making; case studies on art-science-community labs’, Visual Arts Practices Symposium, California Institute of Technology, USA
Watt and Barnet (2023) ‘Blast Radius Challenge Lab’, Together for Transformation, University of Suffolk Conference, UK
Watt and Barnet (2023) ‘Blast Radius: The impact of a creative impulse’, Close Look Distant View, Suffolk Archives and University of Suffolk, UK
Watt and Barnet (2022) ‘Longshore Drift’, British Art Network Landscape Research Group, UK
Watt (2020) ‘Reflections on Home: an engaged public art project’, University of Suffolk, Public Engagement Conference, UK
Watt (2016) ‘Cabinet of Curiosities’, University of Suffolk Public Engagement Conference, UK
Watt (2015) ‘Cabinet of Curiosities’ Objects in Motion: Material Culture in Transition Conference, CRASSH, University of Cambridge, UK
Watt (2015) ‘Cabinet of Curiosities’ Re:Print Symposium, Anglia Ruskin University, UK
Watt (2015) ‘Cabinet of Curiosities’ Image Makers: Image Takers symposium, Art Cell, CRUK (Cancer Research UK) Cambridge Institute, UK
For Folks Sake , The Cut Halesworth, UK (2024)
Make It Count , Power House, Orford Ness and University of Suffolk, UK (2024)
Landscape Rebels , Christchurch Mansion, Ipswich, UK (2023)
Animal, Vegetable, Mineral , The Art Station, Saxmundham, UK (2022-23)
Postcards for Perec , University of Essex, University of Bath, University of the West of
England UK (2022-24)
Aller Retour , Halles aux Poissons, Le Havre, France (2022)
Murky Waters , Art Walk, Porty, Edinburgh, UK (2022)
Crown Letter, Institute Francais, Kyoto as art of KG+ program, of Kyotographie International Photography Festival, Japan (2022)
Crown Letter , Tour St Jacques, Photo Days and Hyper Festival of the City of Paris, France
(2021)
HERE, The Art Station, Saxmundham, UK (2021)
Crown Letter international online project (2020)
Lockdown and Light co-curator international online project (2020)
Alive in the Universe , Palazzo Pesaro, Venice, Italy (2019)
Aller Retour , Fort de Tourneville, Le Havre, France (2019)
Landscape and Light II, Letheringham Lodge, UK (2018)
Still on the Beach (solo exhibition), Aldeburgh Beach Lookout, Aldeburgh, UK (2017)
Ice Carnival The Art Station Saxmunham, UK (2017)
Parasol , Appel d’Air 2 Festival, Arras, France (2016)
Landscape and Light , Letheringham Lodge, UK (2016)
The Cabinet of Curiosities (solo exhibition) Waterfront Gallery, Ipswich, UK (2015)
A Portable Collection (solo exhibition) The View Tube, London, UK (2015)
Experimental Village Cyprus College of Art, Paphos, Cyprus (2015)
Public Art Commissions
Mulberry – Tree of Plenty a collaborative cross-disciplinary project by artists Sara Heywood & Jane Watt and Dr David Chau, Associate Professor in Biomaterials and Allied Subjects at the Eastman Dental Institute, UCL.
Commissioned as part of Trellis: a UCL Culture and UCL East programme and funded by EPSRC.
(2020-21)
Reflections on Home Alton Estate Artist in Residence in collaboration with Sara Heywood, to create a series of site-specific work as part of the Alton Estate Regeneration Programme commissioned by Artscape, with Redrow and Wandsworth Council (2017-19)
Loom to the Moon permanent artwork commission for John Radcliffe Hospital, Oxford.
Source of funding: John Radcliffe Hospital Charitable Funds, Oxford (2016-2019)
The Cabinet of Curiosities Darwin Green Artist in Residence series of temporary site-specific works.
Source of funding: Artscape Management/Barratt’s (2013-15)

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/dr-lindsey-scott:
Dr Lindsey Scott is an award-winning Senior Lecturer in English specialising in children’s horror, adaptation, and Gothic literature and film.
She holds a PhD from the University of Liverpool and received a Gladstone Fellowship to complete her doctoral research.
She is a Fellow of the Higher Education Academy and a recipient of the Vice Chancellor’s Distinguished Teaching Award at De Montfort University.
Since joining the University of Suffolk, she has received three Students' Union teaching awards for Most Inspirational Lecturer, Best Personal Tutor, and Most Engaging Online Teaching.
In 2023, Lindsey was shortlisted for Masters Teacher of the Year, a national award from Find A University.
In 2024, she won the Stars of Suffolk award for Outstanding Contribution to Learning and Student Experience.
Lindsey is also an academic member of the AHRC-funded international Youth and Horror Research Network.
On the BA (Hons) English courses, Lindsey teaches Literary Criticism: Theory into Practice, Textual Afterlives: Adapting Literature and Film, and Stranger Things: Young Adult Fiction.
She also teaches on the Independent Project and supervises undergraduate as well as postgraduate dissertations.
On the MA Creative and Critical Writing, Lindsey teaches Adaptation: New Creative/Critical Directions, Children’s Literature: Through the Looking Glass, and the Dissertation/Project.
She also leads the MA course and teaches Children's Literature on the MA Childhood Studies.
Lindsey is the co-editor of Investigating Stranger Things: Upside Down in the World of Mainstream Cult Entertainment (Palgrave Macmillan, 2021).
The collection explores the narrative, genre, nostalgia and fandoms of this phenomenally successful series and brings together scholars in the fields of media, humanities and cultural studies to consider how Stranger Things challenges and confirms pre-conceived notions of cult media.
The project began at the ‘Investigating Stranger Things ’ conference with Dr Tracey Mollet (University of Leeds) and was partially funded by a research grant from the University of Suffolk.
Lindsey’s main research interests are adaptation and gothic horror in literature, film, and children's popular culture.
She would welcome enquiries about research projects relating to these areas.
Selected publications (see ORCID ID: 0000-0002-1574-6433 for full listing)
Academic Papers
Scott, L.
‘Growing in Nightshade: Toxic Culture and Healing Horror in Netflix’s Wednesday’ in Piatti-Farnell, L.
(ed.) Poison and the Popular Imagination: Representations, Iconographies, and Meanings in Media and Culture.
London and New York: Bloomsbury (2025).
'Opening the Gate: reconfiguring the child victim in Stranger Things', in Hoedt, M.
and Lukic, M.
(eds.) Re-imagining the Victim in Post-1970s Horror Media.
Amsterdam: Amsterdam University Press (2024).
Access here .
‘Through a darker looking glass: Alice’s adventures in horrorland,’ in Sanna, A.
(ed.) Alice in Wonderland in Film and Popular Culture .
London and New York: Palgrave Macmillan (2022).
'Horror at the crossroads: mapping the child's grief in Pan's Labyrinth ', in Dymond, E.
(ed.) Grief in Contemporary Horror Cinema Screening Loss: .
Lanham, MD: Lexington Books (2022).
‘Tween terror in the Upside Down: children, cult horror and Stranger Things ,’ in Mollet, T.
and Scott, L.
(eds.) Investigating Stranger Things: Upside Down in the World of Mainstream Cult Entertainment (London and New York: Palgrave Macmillan, 2021).
Mollet, T.
‘Stranger Things in a familiar land: mainstream cult entertainment in the age of Netflix,’ in Mollet, T.
‘“Groaning shadows that are gone”: the ghosts of Titus Andronicus .’ English Studies , 96, (4), pp.
403-423.
[Online].
Taylor & Francis, 2015.
‘The Blue Room.’ What the Dickens?
Magazine/Miracle e-Zine Spooky Tales Anthology , 2014, pp.
59-65.
'Telling Butterflies,' in Moran Neil, J.
(ed.) A Dozen Promises (Creative Ink Publishing, 2014).
‘Crossing oceans of time: Stoker, Coppola and the new vampire film,’ in George, S.
and Hughes, B.
(eds.) Open Graves, Open Minds: Vampires and the Undead in Modern Culture (Manchester: Manchester University Press, 2013), pp.
113-30.
‘Review of The Hollow Crown (directed by Rupert Goold, Richard Eyre and Thea Sharrock), BBC Two, 30 June-21 July 2012.’ Shakespeare , 9, (1), 2013, pp.
108-114.
‘A mother’s curse: reassigning blame in Hideo Nakata's Ringu and Gore Verbinski’s The Ring .’ Cinephile , 6 (2) pp.
14-19.
Cinephile.
Horror Ad-Nauseam .
The University of British Columbia, 2010.
‘“There's no such thing”: nothing and nakedness in Polanski's Macbeth .’ Shakespeare Survey (61) pp.
104-115.
Shakespeare Survey (No.
61).
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2008.
‘“Closed in a dead man's tomb”: Juliet, space, and the body in Franco Zeffirelli’s and Baz Luhrmann's Films of Romeo and Juliet .’ Literature /Film Quarterly , 36 (2), 2008, pp.
137-46.
‘Becoming a Nightshade: Healing Horror in Netflix’s Wednesday.’ Youth and Horror: An International Conference.
University of Birmingham, July 2025.
and Bernthal-Hooker, J.
(conference organisers) 'Sequestered Places, Heaving Seas: the Life and Works of M.R.
James.' Centre for Culture and Heritage, University of Suffolk, April 2024.
(panel chair) 'Do They Exist?
Writing and Illustrating Ghosts.' 'Phantasmagoria: In Conversation with Ghosts.' Graduate Conference.
Centre for Culture and Heritage, University of Suffolk, April 2024.
Scott, L., Bernthal-Hooker, J., Britton, M., Gant, R., Phillips, J.
and Spalding, A.
(conference organisers) 'Phantasmagoria: In Conversation with Ghosts.' Graduate Conference.
'(Re)cycling the eighties: kids on bikes and closer encounters in Stranger Things .' Looking into the Upside Down: Investigating Stranger Things Conference .
University of Leeds, December 2018.
Scott, L., Burd, S., Brierley, A., Willis, M., Nichols-Drew, L.
and Green, S.
‘Enhancing employability: practices of constructive alignment in student work-based learning.’ Open Doors, Open Minds: Engaging with Higher Education Conference.
De Montfort University, April 2013.
(panel chair) ‘Contemporary politics: myth, history and adaptation’.
Adapting Historical Narratives Conference.
Centre for Adaptations, De Montfort University, February 2012.
'"Will it consume me?" Awakening Shakespeare's ghosts in Julie Taymor's Titus .' Feminism and Adaptation Conference.
Centre for Adaptations, De Montfort University, April 2009.
'"There's no such thing": nothing and nakedness in Roman Polanski's Macbeth .' Filming Shakespeare's plays: reduction or enlargement?
Seminar presentation.
3rd British Shakespeare Association Conference.
University of Warwick, August - September 2007.
‘Suffocating bodies: spaces of female privacy in Othello .' Literary Geographies: a Multidisciplinary Conference.
University of Nottingham, July 2007.
'"A dagger of the mind": defiling Duncan’s body in screen adaptations of Macbeth .' Minding the Body - Social, Political, Historical: an Interdisciplinary Conference, University of Leicester, May 2007.
'Shakespeare across the disciplines: Romeo and Juliet - stage, screen, text, image.' Research Without Boundaries Conference.
University of Roehampton, April 2007.
'Reading the prophetic space in Macbeth .' The Annual British Shakespeare Graduate Conference.
The Shakespeare Institute, University of Birmingham.
Stratford-upon-Avon, June 2007.
' Othello on film, film on Othello .' Retelling Tales Conference.
University of Stirling, May 2007.
‘Exploring the liminal body: Juliet's sexual autonomy on Shakespeare's stage and on screen.’ Association of Adaptation Studies Inaugural Conference.
De Montfort University, September 2006.
Lindsey was appointed Honorary Fellow of De Montfort’s international Centre for Adaptations (2014-2017).
She has presented papers at international conferences, including those hosted by the Association of Adaptation Studies, the British Shakespeare Association, and the Shakespeare Institute.
Lindsey has peer-reviewed submissions for the leading academic journals Shakespeare (Routledge) and Adaptation (Oxford UP).

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/dr-darragh-martin:
Dr Darragh Martin is Course Leader for BA (Hons) English.
Darragh writes novels, plays, and stories for children; his fiction has been shortlisted for an Irish Book Award and longlisted for the Desmond Elliott Prize.
Darragh is particularly interested in the Environmental Humanities and creative responses to the climate crisis; he has taught courses on climate culture and collaborated on artistic projects with the Free Word Centre and climate scientists at Durham University.
Darragh is passionate about access to arts education and has worked on creative writing projects with survivors of torture, women who were incarcerated, and primary and secondary school students.
Before coming to Suffolk, Darragh completed a PhD on a Fulbright scholarship at Columbia University and held positions at New York University and Birkbeck College.
Darragh teaches the MA Writer in Residence module and the BA courses Master Class in Fiction: The Novel, The Short Story, Poetry Matters, and Starting Points in Creative Writing.
He supervises undergraduate and postgraduate dissertations.
His pedagogical research interests are in Environmental Humanities and performance-based pedagogies.
Darragh’s research interests include climate change and literature, the novel, children’s literature, modern drama, Shakespeare and adaptation, the teenager in literature, and arts and activism.
Selected publications (see ORCID ID: 0000-0002-5995-2781 for full listing)
Martin, D.
Future Popes of Ireland (London: Harper Collins, 2018)
‘Thumbelina Jellyfizz and the Elephant in the Bathroom’ in Weatherfronts: Climate Change and the Stories we Tell (London: Cambria; 2017)
“Atlas’ Shifting Shoulders: Teaching Climate Change and the Classics” in Teaching Climate Change in the Humanities (New York: Routledge, 2017)
‘ The Sky-Snake and the Pot of Gold’ in Magic!: New Irish Fairy Stories (London: Frances Lincoln, 2015)
‘Wild Swans’ in Shoes, Ducks and Maids of the Sea: Irish Retellings of the Tales of Hans Christian Andersen (Dublin: International Board of Books for Young People Irish Section, 2014)
The Keeper (Dublin: Little Island, 2013)
“Touring Shakespeare to Australian Teenagers” in Teaching Shakespeare Beyond the Centre , eds.
Kate Flaherty, Penny Gay and L.E.
Semler.
(New York: Palgrave, 2013)
Darragh has given talks and presented papers at international conferences and festivals including at the Australian Shakespeare Festival, the International Shakespeare Association, the Shakespeare Association of America, the Polish Art Festival, and the Dublin Book Festival.
His plays have been performed at international festivals including the Samuel French Off-Off Broadway Festival, the First Irish Festival in New York, and the Fringe Festivals in Melbourne, New York, Adelaide, and Edinburgh.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/dr-jenny-amos:
Dr Jenny Amos is a socio-phonologist who specialises in modelling dialect variation and change within phonological theory.
Jenny’s dialect area of interest primarily includes varieties of South East England, but she is also interested in other varieties of the UK and International Englishes.
As a phonologist, Jenny enjoys puzzling over data and looking to find trends and patterns within and between varieties of spoken language.
Her current research interests and projects involve experimental and applied phonology, emoji construction and development, and inclusivity in orthographic diversity.
Jenny holds a BA (Hons) in English Language and Linguistics, an MA (Hons) in Sociolinguistics, and a PhD in Linguistics, all awarded by the University of Essex.
Dr Amos has a wide range of Teaching and Learning experience including, but not limited to:
Selected publications (see ORCID ID: 0000-0003-0730-9740 for full listing)
Amos, J.
(2010) A Sociophonological Analysis of Mersea Island English: An investigation of the diphthongs (au), (ai) and (oi).
Unpublished PhD thesis, University of Essex (UK).
Available at: https://roa.rutgers.edu/content/article/files/1208_amos_1.pdf
Amos,J., Kasstan, J,.
(fc) Semantic effects constrain [mi] variant selection in Mersea English (Submitted and under review)
and Johnson, W.
(2020) Reconsidering (t, d)-deletion as a single variable in English; English Today 36:6-13
and Jansen, S.
(eds) Language in the South of England: Special edition of English Today; English today (36)
(2013) Life on the Edge: A sociophonological analysis of diphthong variation and change; Essex Research Reports 62:2, Department of Language and Linguistics, University of Essex (UK)
Jansen, S.
and Amos, J.
(2020) English in the South of England – an introduction; Special Edition of English Today (36)
Academic Papers and Conferences
2021
2019
2018
2017
2016
2015

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/dr-louise-carter:
Dr Louise Carter is a social and cultural historian of Britain and a Senior Fellow of the Higher Education Academy.
Her teaching and research interests range from the early modern period through to the present and range from the role of gender in Georgian society to the impact of war on childhood, from the early modern witch-hunt to oral histories of ordinary people and their times.
At the heart of these diverse interests lies an overarching interest in people, identities, and the impact of history on actual lives.
Recently she has also become interested in the history of happiness and what humanity's search for wellbeing can reveal.
She grew up locally and studied at the University of Essex, gaining First Class Honours for her B.A.
and a distinction in her M.A.
in History.
She then moved to the University of Cambridge to achieve her Ph.D.
in History, with funding from the E.S.R.C.
(Economic and Social Research Council).
After an initial teaching post at the University of Aberdeen, Dr Carter returned to the region to join the History team at Suffolk in 2008.
Dr Carter teaches the following modules:
BA
MA
'Brothers in Arms?
Military Masculinities and Family Feeling in Old Soldiers' Memoirs, 1793-1815' in Michael Brown, Joanne Begiato and Anna Barry, (eds.), Martial Masculinities: Experiencing and Imagining the Military in the Long Nineteenth Century, (Manchester University Press, 2019).
'Scarlet Fever: Women's Enthusiasm for Men in Uniform 1780-1815', in Kevin Linch and Matthew McCormack (eds.), Britain’s Soldiers: Rethinking War and Society, 1715-1815, (Liverpool University Press, 2014).
Domestic Affairs: Intimacy, Eroticism and Violence Between Servants and Masters in Eighteenth-Century Britain, by Kristina Straub, History, 97, 325, Jan 2012, pp.160-162.
The Crimean War in the British Imagination, by Stefanie Markovits, The English Historical Review, 126, 2011, pp.
1214-1216.
'British Masculinity on Trial in the Queen Caroline Affair of 1820', Gender and History, vol.
20, 2, August (2008).
Selected conference papers and public lectures
‘Divorcing a Queen: The Queen Caroline Affair Two Hundred Years On’, The History of Parliament Trust, The UK Parliament Speaker’s Committee on Works of Art and The Parliamentary Archives Joint Event, November 2020.
‘Brothers in Arms?
The Family and Martial Masculinity in Old Soldiers’ Memoirs 1793-1815’, Military Masculinities in the Long C19 conference, University of Hull, May 2015.
‘Battling Emotions: The Boundaries of Emotional Normalcy and Deviancy on Campaign in the Revolutionary and Napoleonic Wars 1793-1815’, Social History Society conference, University of Portsmouth, March 2015.
'Britain, Gender and Men in Uniform 1793-1815', History Dept Research Seminar, University of Essex, February 2012.
'Scarlet Fever: Women and the Military Man 1780-1815', Soldiers and Soldiering in Britain 1750-1815 Conference, University of Leeds/AHRC, July 2011.
Dr Carter appeared in two documentaries to mark the bi-centenary of Waterloo in June 2015: The Scots at Waterloo on BBC2 Scotland and Waterloo on TG4 Ireland.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/dr-john-greenacre:
Dr John Greenacre is a military historian with a particular interest in the development of conflict during the twentieth century.
John spent over twenty years in the British Army as a helicopter pilot before completing his PhD at Leeds University.
He is a part time lecturer at the University of Suffolk and also works as a tour guide across Europe and supports current military professional development activity.
Current Undergraduate Teaching (BA)
The Global Cold War – Berlin to Beijing, Heritage in Practice, Britain at War in the Twentieth
Century, Researching History (contributor), Dissertation (contributor).
Postgraduate Teaching (MA)
Conflict the Landscape and Environment.
Current Postgraduate Supervision (PhD)
A.Lock, 'The effectiveness of the British Expeditionary Force (BEF) on the Western Front in 1917' (with Dr Harvey Osborne)
Selected publications (see ORCID ID: 0000-0002-8389-7428 for full listing)
Twentieth century British military development, fishing, fisheries and the Royal Navy, the effect of conflict on the landscape and environment.
Co-research and co-author of ‘Ops Normal; the Operational History of the Army Air Corps’, funded by the Army Air Corps Charity (Charity No: 1184333) – 2019-2023.
Archival research at national, local and military archives.
Currently authorised to access the Ministry of Defence archive.
Oral history, military subjects, gathering, transcription and interpretation.
Publications ‘British Fishermen and Anti-Submarine Warfare during the First World War’, Y.
Carbonnier, S.
Curveiller and L.
Warlouzet (eds), Conflits autour du Détroit du Pas de Calais, (Calais: Université du Littoral Côte d'Opale, 2020).
'The Admiralty’s interwar planning with the British fishing industry, 1925–1940', Journal for Maritime Research, January 2020.
‘“Flexible Enough to Adapt”: British Airborne Forces’ Experience during Post Conflict Operations 1944-1946’, British Journal of Military History, 4, 1, 2017.
‘“Shadows of Arnhem: British Airborne Forces and the Aftermath of Operation Market Garden” in J.
Buckley and P.
Preston-Hough (ed), Operation Market Garden and the Campaign in the Low Countries Autumn 1944: Seventy Years On, (Helion, Solihull, 2016).
Ever Glorious: The Frontline Letters of the Crookenden Brothers 1936-1946, (Helion, Solihull, 2016).
When Opportunity Arises: British Airborne Operations in the Mediterranean, 1941-1944 in A.L.
Hargreaves, P.J.
Rose and M.C.
Ford (ed), Allied Fighting Effectiveness in North Africa and Italy, 1942-1945 (Brill, Leiden, 2014).
Churchill's Spearhead: The Development of Britain's Airborne Forces during the Second World War, (Pen and Sword, Barnsley, 2010).
''...There is, I'm Afraid, no alternative...' The Provision of Transport and Support Aircraft to British Airborne Forces during the Second World War', Air Power Review, 10, 3, Autumn 2007.
'Assessing the Reasons for Failure: 1st British Airborne Division Signal Communications during Operation Market Garden', Defence Studies, 4, 3, Autumn 2004.
‘The Battle of the Breaches: The Emergency Response to the 1953 Floods’, When the Sea Came In, University of Suffolk and Suffolk Archives, 4 February 2023.
‘Russell versus the Admiralty: The Rehabilitation of the British Fishing Industry in the Wake of the Second World war’, The Inexhaustible Sea, University of Suffolk and Suffolk Archives, 26 November 2022.
‘Russell versus the Admiralty: The Rehabilitation of the British Fishing Industry in the Wake of the Second World war’, Russell and the Fisheries, Centre for Environment, Fisheries and Aquaculture, 21 November 2022.
‘The Admiralty’s interwar planning with the British fishing industry, 1925 – 1940’, Second World War Research Group, Comparative Perspectives Conference, June 2019.
‘British Fishermen and Anti-Submarine Warfare during the First World War’, XIVe siècle à l’Époque Contemporaine, April 2018.
‘“Flexible Enough to Adapt”: British Airborne Forces’ Experience during Post Conflict Operations 1944-1946’, British Commission for Military History New Research Conference, November 2017.
‘‘A Fleeting Opportunity Not Fully Realised’; The Effectiveness of 1st Parachute Brigade during Operation TORCH’, Battle of El Alamein 75th Anniversary Conference, University of Wolverhampton, September 2017.
‘Inhuman Visitors: The German Naval Bombardment of Lowestoft 25 April 1916 and its Effect on Civilian Morale’, The Great War at Home, 83rd Anglo-American Conference of Historians, Institute of Historical Research, June 2014.
'From Colossus to Varsity: The Development of British Airborne Tactical Doctrine during the Second World War', Royal United Services Institute military history seminar, June 2008.
'The British Airborne Experience in the Mediterranean during the Second World War', The Second World War in the Mediterranean conference, King's College London and the Imperial War Museum, July 2008.
United States Army, Headquarters Africa Command, Staff Development Programme, (2021-2022)
The Department of Education Tasmania (2011-2021), support to the Frank MacDonald Memorial Prize programme
Teaching at the University of Malta (Erasmus Programme), 2019
International Guild of Battlefield Guides – accredited member No.44.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/dr-andrea-smith:
After nearly thirty years in journalism, a long-held love of literature and a desire to help young people develop their talents and skills led Dr Smith to change career and move into teaching.
Her research focuses on radio drama, specifically Shakespeare, and how texts intended for the stage can be translated into an audio-only medium.
Her career prior to joining the University included working for two Suffolk newspapers and the BBC, as well as setting exams for the National Council for the Training of Journalists.
She is an occasional contributor to programmes on BBC Radio 3 and a passionate advocate for access to Higher Education.
Dr Smith has two main interests: theatre and non-fiction prose.
She teaches the undergraduate modules on theatre and Shakespeare at the University, as well as modules relating to employability, such as Professional Practice, which includes journalism, writing for Public Relations and social media.
In addition, she teaches the Writers in Residence module on the MA Creative and Critical Writing, helping students to work with organisations in the community.
Dr Smith’s primary research interest is in audio productions of Shakespeare’s plays and other early modern dramas.
She is keenly interested in how listening to these plays, rather than watching them, can help unlock their texts, both for a school/undergraduate audience and at a deeper level for research scholars.
She is also interested in exploring what such productions might be able to tell us about the auditory experience of the original theatrical stagings and the primacy they placed on Shakespeare’s language.
She is keen to share her research with an audience outside academia and has written blogs for the British Shakespeare Association and the BBC History Research website, as well as talking about her work on radio, notably in a five-part series, The Beeb and The Bard , broadcast on BBC Radio 3 in 2022.
She has also curated a playlist of more than one hundred Shakespeare radio plays for Learning On Screen.
Selected publications (see ORCID ID: 0000-0002-6700-8280 for full listing)
Shakespeare on the Radio: A Century of BBC Plays , Edinburgh University Press (2025).
ISBN: 9781399547284.
https://edinburghuniversitypress.com/book-shakespeare-on-the-radio.html
‘Shakespeare for Free: the Accessibility and Politics of Audio Shakespeare in Anglo‐American Contexts’, in Translating Shakespeare: Access and Mediation (eds D.
Lees & L.
Oakley-Brown), Springer Nature (forthcoming 2025).
‘John Gielgud on air – 65 years of performing Shakespeare on radio’, in Shakespeare Survey 78: Shakespeare’s Communities (2025) 282-87.
‘A Plague on All Our Houses: How Screens Kept Audio Drama Alive During the Pandemic’, in Resonance , 6.3 (2025).
‘Radio drama and adaptation studies’, in Journal of Adaptation in Film and Performance (2024) 113-124.
https://doi.org/10.1386/jafp_00113_2 Co-author and co-editor of a special edition on radio drama.
‘Reversing the tradition of the boy player: female actors playing male children on British radio’, in Journal of Adaptation in Film and Performance (2024) 177-190.
https://doi.org/10.1386/jafp_00118_1
‘CiRCE Podcast Network, creator.
The Play’s the Thing’, in Renaissance and Reformation , 46.
2 (2024) 162–165.
https://doi.org/10.33137/rr.v46i2.42299
“More Fair Than Black”: Othellos On British Radio’, in Shakespeare Survey 75: Othello (2022) 49-59.
DOI:10.1017/9781009245845.004
‘Radio Plays’ in Forgotten Treasures: The World’s First Great Shakespeare Library (2022).
ISBN: 978-1-905036-85-1
‘Cathleen Nesbitt: Britain’s First Radio Drama Producer’ in Women’s History Today, 5.3 (2022).
‘Reviews of Shakespeare’s Othello (Directed by Emma Harding), BBC Radio 3, 19 April 2020 and Henry IV, Part 1 (Directed by Sally Avens), BBC Radio 3, 26 April 2020’ in Shakespeare, 18:2 (2021), 246-254.
DOI: 10.1080/17450918.2021.2012244
‘Noise, narration and nose-pegs: Adapting Shakespeare for radio’, Radio Journal, 19.1 (2021), 41-58.
DOI: 10.1386/rjao_00033_1
‘“See how the blood is settled in his face”: Shakespeare’s Warwick – Fiction’s first pathologist’, Brief Encounters, 4.1 (2020).
DOI: 10.24134/be.v4i1.203
‘John Gielgud and Shakespeare – an alternative history’, British Shakespeare Association Conference (2024).
‘“Her infinite variety”: women’s creativity in audio Shakespeare’, British Shakespeare Association Conference (2023).
Radio Drama panel discussion at BBC at 100 Symposium (2022).
‘Reversing the tradition of the boy player’, Britgrad (2022).
‘Making Early Modern drama with a mattress and a microphone’, All The World’s A Stage (2022).
‘Cinematic Shakespeare in Sound Only’, British Shakespeare Association Conference (2021).
‘Noise, narration and nose-pegs: adapting Shakespeare for radio’, Britgrad (2020).
‘Shakespeare productions on BBC Radio: Reflecting the nation?’, British Shakespeare Association Conference (2019).
Dr Smith works with students, the university’s careers team and local businesses to help students secure work placements as well as jobs after graduation.
In addition, she engages with the media to promote her research and the university.
Media
BBC Radio 5 Live, Laura McGhie: ‘Shakespeare: love or hate’.
Broadcast 24 May 2025.
Available at: https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/m002d5m5
BBC Radio 3, Introduction to The Tragedy of Macbeth .
Broadcast 5 May 2024.
Available at: https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/m001z091
BBC Radio 3, Free Thinking: ‘How and why we talk’.
Broadcast 9 November 2023.
Available at: https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/m001rz6r
BBC Radio 3, The Essay : ‘The Beeb and the Bard’.
Five-part series Broadcast from 24-28 October 2022.
Available at: https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/m001d66z
BBC Radio 3, Free Thinking : ‘Shakespeare, history, pathology and dissonant sound’.
Broadcast 20 April 2022.
Available at: https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/m0016bbx
Interview about Radio Shakespeare with Dr Varsha Panjwani, Women and Shakespeare podcast (2021).
Available at: https://womenandshakespeare.buzzsprout.com/891835/8012683-s2-e2-andrea-smith-on-radio-shakespeares
Interview about Twelfth Night on Georgy Jamieson's Big Night In on BBC Radio Suffolk (2021).
Introduction to Love's Labour's Lost for The Show Must Go Online (2020).
Available at: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rYUgqkpf5FE

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/dr-matthew-bowman:
Dr Bowman is a widely-published art critic and historian who obtained his doctorate at the University of Essex with a dissertation on the October journal and its rethinking of medium specificity, having previously received his MA there.
Before switching towards art history, he completed a degree in Fine Art, specialising in ceramic sculpture and photography, at Bretton Hall College.
His research focuses on twentieth century and contemporary art, criticism, photography, the art market, and philosophy in the USA and Europe.
He has given lectures and talks at the Tate Gallery, The National Museum of Oslo, The Royal College of Art, Edinburgh College of Art, the University of Nottingham, Winchester School of Art and numerous other places.
Here and there, he also works photographically.
Contextual Studies I (Contributor)
Contextual Studies II (Contributor)
Dissertation and Critical Perspectives
Dr Bowman’s research interests are underpinned by three major areas of concern: firstly, the art history and theory of North American and European art of the twentieth and twenty-first centuries, with a particular focus upon post-World War II artistic practices; secondly, Continental and Analytic philosophy from the eighteenth century onwards, especially philosophy in the twentieth century; and thirdly, an abiding focus upon art historians who constructed or have rearticulated the methodologies of art-historical writing.
These three areas interweave in Dr Bowman’s research in a way that posits artworks as theoretical objects or as possessing philosophical significance without, however, being merely illustrations of philosophy.
Publications and Exhibition Catalogues (selected)
October and Art Criticism in the Expanded Field , (London, Routledge) forthcoming 2019/2020.
The Price of Everything and the Value of Nothing: Art Criticism and the Art Market , (London, I.B.Tauris), forthcoming 2019.
‘Indiscernibly Bad: The Problem of Bad Painting/Good Art’, forthcoming in Oxford Art Journal , 41, 3, December 2018 (peer-reviewed publication).
‘Sheffield Round-Up: Graves Gallery, Persistence Works, Bloc Projects’, Art Monthly , 414, March 2018, pp.
34-36.
‘Review of In Quotes.
East Gallery NUA’, Art Monthly , 410, October 2017, pp.
25-26.
‘East Anglian Round-Up: The Sainsbury Centre, Firstsite, The Minories Galleries’, Art Monthly, 409, September 2017, pp.
44-46.
‘Review of Movement of the People, Art Exchange’, Art Monthly, 403, February 2017, pp.
20-21.
‘Review of Gee Vaucher, Introspective, Firstsite’, Art Monthly, 402, December-January 2016/17, pp.
27-28.
‘Review of The Peculiar People, Focal Point Gallery’, Art Monthly, 397, June 2016, pp.
24-45.
‘Review of Mark Wilsher, Everyone is an Curator, The Minories Galleries’, Art Monthly, issue 390, October 2015.
‘Lena Lapschina’s C-Level’ in Lena Lapschina, Thoughtbook, (Vienna, 2015), unpaginated.
‘Shapes of Time: Melancholia, Anachronism, De-Distancing’ in Amanda Boetzkes and Aron Vinegar (eds.), Heidegger and the Work of Art History, (Farnham and Burlington: Ashgate, 2014), pp.
173-194.
‘For a Concept of Immaterial Indestructibility’ in Camila Maroja and Caroline Menzies (eds.) The Permanence of the Transient , (Cambridge: Cambridge Scholars, 2014), pp.
30-41.
‘Rosalind Krauss’ in Mark Durden (ed.), Fifty Key Writers on Photography, (London and New York, Routledge, 2013), pp.
149-154.
‘MIND YOUR HEAD: On Speculative Research for the Public in Elaine Tribley’s Work ‘ in Laura Earley (ed.), Market Project , (London: Market Project, 2012).
‘Antarctica Starts Here: The Restless Travels of Chris Dobrowolski’ in Chris Dobrowolski: Antarctica, exhibition catalogue, (Colchester: University Gallery, 2010).
‘Rethinking Werk as Herstellung: On Martin Heidegger’s The Origin of the Work of Art’ at Thinking through, with and against The Origin of the Work of Art symposium, Flat Time House, London, June 2018
‘Collage as Model’ at Collage, Montage, Assemblage: Collected and Composite Forms, 1700-Present conference, Edinburgh College of Art, Edinburgh, 18-19 April 2018
‘Exteriority/Interiority: Surface Dimensions of Painting’ at the Painting in the Digital Age; Surface symposium, University of Suffolk, Ipswich, 7 July 2017.
‘The Crux of Minimalist Criticism’ at the Minimalism: Location Aspect Moment conference, Winchester School of Art, Winchester, 14-15 October 2016.
‘Frontality/Facingness: The Surface Beyond Flatness’ at the Revisiting the Surface Conference, National Gallery, Oslo, November 2015.
‘Photographic Thinking: Michael Schmidt’s Constellations’ at the Annual Association of Art Historians, University of East Anglia, April 2015.
‘In Conversation with Emma Hart’ at Art Exchange, University of Essex, March 2015.
‘In Conversation with Roxy Walsh and Sally Underwood’ at Art Exchange, University of Essex, February 2015.
‘Art Criticism for Blue Chip Stocks’ at the Annual Association of Art Historians conference, Royal College of Art, April 2014.
‘Art Criticism in the Contracted Field’ at the Art Criticism Now symposium convened by Richard Wrigley at the University of Nottingham, March 2014.
‘Matthew Bowman, Chris Wassilak, Rob La Frenais, and Mark Wilsher’, Art Monthly Talk Show, presented by Matt Hale on Resonance FM.
Podcast

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/dr-vassiliki-tzomaka:
Vassiliki Tzomaka is an interdisciplinary artist, with over 20 years of in-house and studio experience in visual communication and marketing.
She completed her MA in Art, Design and the Book at Colchester School of Art in 2010 and has worked as a freelance designer, illustrator and marketeer since then.
In 2017 she successfully completed a PhD in Children’s Picturebook Illustration at ARU’s Cambridge School of Art, investigating the role of narrative in non-fiction picturebooks.
Vassiliki developed the practical outcome of her PhD research into the 'Extreme Environments’ picturebook series published by Thames and Hudson.
Her books combine graphic illustrations with scientific facts to playfully introduce young readers to some the world’s most remarkable biodiversity.
Her first book in the 'Extreme Environments' series, Hoot and Howl Across the Desert (2020), was selected by the Reading Agency and WWF for the Summer Reading Challenge 2021 , a national initiative to promote reading and learning to children.
In 2022 it was also chosen by the UN Sustainable Development Goals committee as a recommended book for children to understand the importance of SDG15: Life on Land .
Before joining the University of Suffolk in 2021, Vassiliki taught on a number of degrees at ARU, including the MA in Children’s Book Illustration, and on UAL’s Foundation Diploma in Art and Design at Colchester School of Art.
She has been a visiting lecturer for the MA in Illustration at University for the Creative Arts and an external examiner for doctoral research in Children’s Book Illustration for ARU.
Module lead— Level 4: Digital Interpretations Level 4: Contextual Studies Level 5: Work Based learning Level 6: Dissertation
Module contributor— Level 5: Applying Critical Perspectives Level 5: Professional Design / Illustration Practices
Vassiliki’s research interests lie in nonfiction picturebooks, reflective practice and multimodal communication design with a focus on investigating how narratives, illustration techniques and printing processes can be combined to enhance book design and learning.
She is particularly interested in topics that involve environmental awareness, conservation and the celebration of cultural diversity.
Vassiliki was an invited speaker for the panel The Boundaries of the Book: Illustrated Non-Fiction for Children at the London Book Fair 2022.
More recently she contributed to the Picture Books For All exhibition which was co-curated by her colleagues Nigel Ball and Rob Ramsden , in collaboration with Suffolk Archives .
In 2021, Vassiliki and her colleague Jane Hackett , co-founded the Ladies, Wine & Design Ipswich chapter of the global LW&D initiative launched by Jessica Walsh , which aims to empower underrepresented creatives in East Anglia.
Since then, with the support of a HEIF grant, they have organised events such as film screenings, talks and portfolio reviews bringing together creative professional women to address topics relating to creativity, careers and design through open discussion and debate.
Visit Vassiliki's website via linktr.ee/v_tzomaka Follow @v_tzomaka on Twitter and Instagram
Tzomaka.
V (2021) Dart and Dive Across the Reef Thames & Hudson: London
V (2020) Hoot and Howl Across the Desert Thames & Hudson: London
V (2019) Alternative illustrations for nonfiction picturebooks.
In: A world of Information; Children's nonfiction , IBBY UK Conference, Centre for Literacy in Primary Education, London, UK
V (2019) Interview with Allan Drummond;  The role of the classroom in nonfiction narratives, Bookbird, vol 58.1, 83-88
Tzomaka, V (2016) The role of narrative in nonfiction picturebooks; A diagrammatic analysis to define the creative nonfiction picturebook.
In CONFIA 2016 , 4th International Conference on Illustration and Animation, 203-213
Tzomaka, V (2013) The Adaptation of Folk tales: Practice based observations.
In: Myth, Fantasy and Fairy Tales In Literature and the Arts Conference, 16 November 2013, Anglia Ruskin University, Cambridge, UK

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/people/dr-helena-bacon:
Helena is an experienced academic with a background in literature, film and creative writing.
She has taught on both undergraduate and postgraduate courses at the University of East Anglia, Anglia Ruskin University, the University of Nottingham, the University of Essex and the University of Suffolk.
Helena was awarded a BA in Literature and Creative Writing at Manchester Metropolitan University before completing an MA in Modern Culture at University College London and a PhD in Creative and Critical Writing at the University of East Anglia.
Her specialisms include gothic and horror fiction and film, contemporary fiction and television, modern retellings of myth, nuclear cultures and energy humanities.
She has published work in HARTS & Minds , Otherness: Essays and Studies , Green Letters , Gramarye , Gothic Studies and Horror Studies and has more work forthcoming in other key texts in her fields.
She is currently writing her first monograph, Nuclear Gothic: Textual and Cultural Fusions , to be published by Anthem Press in 2026.
Helena has presented at national and international academic conferences including those hosted by the International Gothic Association, the British Society for Literature and Science, and the Institute of Gender Studies at the University of Chester.
In summer 2021 she co-ran an online conference at the University of East Anglia focused on re-imagining the Western and Post-War America.
Two edited collections (European Journal of American Culture and Comparative American Studies) on the Western genre were published in 2023 as a result of this event.
Helena is a member of the International Gothic Association, has also appeared on both the Hallowed Histories and The Constant Reader podcasts and has done extensive Outreach work across East Anglia, working with multiple local schools to introduce pupils to various humanities subjects and the university experience itself.
Helena teaches across all levels of the Digital Film Production and Screenwriting degrees and leads on the following modules:
Film Studies One: Analysis and Issues
Researching Film: Theories and Methods
Contemporary TV: Studies in Format and Genre
Dissertation
Helena’s research focusses on gothic and horror film and fiction and their socio-political work and contexts; she also works on the Western film genre, representation in contemporary television and on representation in film, television, and literature more broadly.
Most recently, she is exploring how energy is depicted and interpreted in a variety of cultural texts (with a special interest in the work of Stephen King).
She has forthcoming work in the field of animation studies also, which cover Mexican stop-motion animation and the presentation of vivisection and animal agency in traditional cell animation of the 1980s.
Current projects include a monograph which explores how nuclear techno-sciences and nuclear cultures have been presented in film, television and literature and examines more broadly the intersection between these technologies and texts and the gothic mode.
She is also co-editing two journal special editions that aim to rethink standard classifications used to discuss the Western film (classic, revisionist) and locate new modes and types of representation in the genre.
Published:
'Lonely Are the Brave', co-written with Mark Jancovich - European Journal of American Culture, Vol.
42, Issue 2-3 (2023)
'Outlaw Trails: New Routes Through the Postwar Western', , co-written with Mark Jancovich - Comparative American Studies , Vol.
20, Issue 2 (2023)
Sometimes; Other Times : Unstitching Gothic Ambiguity in Sofia Carrillo’s Prita Noire/Black Doll, co-written with by Dr Luis Alvarez (UDLAP) – Fantastika , Vol.
6, Issue 1 (2022)
Ambivalent Energies: Stephen King’s Depiction of Electricity in The Green Mile, Revival and The Shining – Horror Studies , Vol.
12, No.
2 (2021)
The Lies of the Land: The Alluvial Formalities of Gothic East Anglia, co-written with Dr Adam Whybray – Gothic Studies Special Edition: Tales of Terror: Gothic and the Short Form , Vol.
23, Issue 1 (2021)
Once a Wood, Always a Wood : Woodland, Witchery and Rewilding in Sylvia Townsend Warner’s Lolly Willowes – Green Letters , Vol.
25, Issue 2 (2021)
The Big Tower of Darkness: Haunting Energy in Catherine Linstrum’s Nuclear , Gramarye , Issue 19 (2021)
Cinematic Phenomenology: Theoretical Analysis of the Camera as a Narrator in Interstellar , co-written with Dr Luis Alvarez and Alfonso Jaimes (UDLAP), IJAHSSS, Vol.
5, Issue 12 (2020)
They’re Just People, That’s All : American Carnival, the Freakish Body and the Ecological Self in Daniel Knauf’s Carnivàle, Otherness: Essays and Studies , Issue 6.2 (2018)
Biology and the Baroque in Matthew Barney’s The Order, HARTS & Minds: The Journal of Humanities and Arts – Science, Society and Civilisation, Vol.
3, No.
1 (2016)
Forthcoming :
Nuclear Gothic: Textual and Cultural Fusions , Anthem Press (monograph, 2026)
‘Sewing Patterns; Sowing Patterns: Restitching Gothic Ambiguity in the Work of Sofia Carrillo’ in Global Horror Animation (edited collection), University of Wales Press
‘We can no longer live as rats.
We know too much.’: Radical Rodents and Dogs in The Secret of NIMH and The Plague Dogs’ Radical Children’s Film and Television (edited collection), University of Edinburgh Press

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/research-culture/concordat-to-support-the-career-development-of-researchers:
This Concordat is an agreement between funders and employers of research staff to improve the employment and support of researchers in UK higher education.
It sets out clear standards that research staff can expect from their institutions and outlines their responsibilities as researchers.
The Concordat aims to increase the attractiveness and sustainability of research careers in the UK, improving the quantity, quality, and impact of research for the benefit of society and the economy.
The Concordat was created in 1996, revised in 2007 and it is signed by a number of bodies, including University Research Councils and Universities UK.
The HR Excellence in Research Award demonstrates a commitment to meeting the principles of the European Charter and Code.
A UK-wide process enables UK HEIs to gain the European Commission's 'HR Excellence in Research' badge, which acknowledges their alignment with the principles of the European Charter for Researchers and Code of Researchers and incorporates the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers .
The Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers is an agreement between funders and employers of research staff to improve the employment and support of researchers and research careers in the UK higher education.
It sets out clear standards that research staff can expect from the institution that employs them, as well as their responsibilities as researchers.
The Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers aims to increase the attractiveness and sustainability of research careers in the UK and to improve the quantity, quality and impact of research for the benefit of UK society and the economy.
The Vice Chancellor's Letter of Commitment to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers at the University of Suffolk.
The three main principles of the Concordat are:
These principles are underpinned by obligations for the four key stakeholder groups, funders, institutions, researchers and managers of researchers, to realise the aims of the Concordat.
University of Suffolk Annual Report, the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers 2022-2023
University of Suffolk Annual Report for the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers 2023-24
Concordat to support the career development of researchers
Annual Report, Researcher Development Concordat 2022
Highlight Report, Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers 2022

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/research-culture/concordat-for-knowledge-exchange:
The University of Suffolk has become a signatory to the Knowledge Exchange Concordat, confirming our commitment to knowledge exchange as an integral part of our institutional culture and mission.
What is the Knowledge Exchange Concordat?
The aim of the Knowledge Exchange Concordat (KEC) is to give universities, their staff and their students clarity of mission for Knowledge Exchange, and to support institutional and individual development in achieving that mission.
The KEC is a framework based on eight guiding principles developed by and for the sector, which support the exchange of knowledge, expertise, and resources.
It provides universities with a mechanism to consider their performance in the wide range of aspects of knowledge exchange, and make a commitment to improvement in those areas that are consistent with their priorities and expertise.
The KEC was launched in 2020 by a sector consortium led by Universities UK and funded by Research England.
Eight Guiding Principles
The University of Suffolk has embedded the KEC’s principles in a reinvigorated knowledge exchange strategy.
This integration ensures alignment with sector-wide best practices in KE, reinforcing our commitment to excellence, collaboration, and impact.
Our KEC commitment follows an extensive KE mapping exercise across the University, delivery of training from Knowledge Exchange UK (KEUK), and restructuring of external facing units to maximise leadership and delivery resources.
The University is also a signatory to the Civic University Agreement and has recently been awarded NCCPE’s Bronze Watermark for Public Engagement.
We are hosting a series of ‘Suffolk Unlocked’ knowledge exchange events at our Ipswich campus throughout this academic year to foster collaboration between academia and external organisations, charities and community groups.
Testimonials
“Signing the Knowledge Exchange Concordat represents a significant milestone in our University’s evolution and aligns perfectly with our strategic vision.
At the University of Suffolk, we recognise that impactful knowledge exchange is fundamental to our role as an anchor institution in the region.
By formalising our commitment to the KEC principles, we’re creating pathways for our research and teaching to make meaningful contributions to economic development, social prosperity, and cultural enrichment across Suffolk and beyond.
This commitment builds upon our existing strengths while challenging us to develop more innovative and inclusive approaches to engagement.
We’re particularly focused on creating opportunities for our diverse academic community to share their expertise, while simultaneously learning from the rich knowledge that exists within our partner organisations and local communities.
The KEC provides us with a robust framework to measure our progress, celebrate our successes, and identify areas where we can further enhance our knowledge exchange activities.
I’m immensely proud of the collaborative effort across the university that has brought us to this point, and excited about the transformative potential of embedding knowledge exchange more deeply into our institutional culture.”
Professor Emma Bond, Pro Vice-Chancellor Research and Knowledge Exchange
“ We are dedicated to transforming lives by promoting public and civic engagement, collaborating with businesses and communities to tackle society’s most pressing challenges.
Through a strong commitment to knowledge exchange, we actively engage with the Knowledge Exchange Framework and the KE Concordat to support the growth and development of our staff and students.
By equipping staff and students with the necessary skills and expertise, we empower them to create meaningful impact and drive positive change.”
Andreea Tocca, Head of Research Culture and Knowledge Exchange
“It’s fantastic to see the commitment to knowledge exchange shown by the University of Suffolk, not just for KE professional staff but across the whole institution’s teaching and research staff.
There is an ambition to transform the university’s engagement with organisations and audiences of all types, in order to deliver economic and social impact in the region and beyond.”
Tamsin Mann, Assistant Director Sector Engagement at Knowledge Exchange UK
Resources
The Knowledge Exchange Concordat

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/research-culture/concordat-for-research-integrity:
On 4 April 2025, a refreshed Concordat to Support Research Integrity was published following an extensive review and sector-wide consultation led by the Research Integrity Concordat Signatories (RICS) Group.
As the UK’s national framework for research integrity, the updated Concordat introduces important changes that will have a wide-reaching impact across the research community.
Organisations are expected to meet the expectations of the 2025 Concordat by April 2026 (but should continue to adhere to the 2019 edition in the meantime).
The University of Suffolk, like all signatories, is required to make five key commitments to be compliant with the Concordat on Research Integrity.
These commitments are addressed through the policies, procedures, and structures of the University and are summarized here:
The Concordat to Support Research Integrity defines research integrity as a set of individual and collective behaviours that are set out in the Research Integrity Code of Practice.
Research Integrity Code of Practice
All research undertaken at the University of Suffolk is completed in accordance with our Research Integrity Code of Practice.
This code ensures:
Principles of Research Integrity
Research integrity at the University of Suffolk is defined by individual and collective behaviours that adhere to:
As a signatory of the Concordat, we publish the Annual Statement on Research Integrity.
This statement outlines the actions and initiatives taken by the University to sustain and enhance the integrity of our research.
Annual Statement on Research Integrity 2024-2025
Annual Statement on Research Integrity 2023-2024
Annual Statement on Research Integrity 2022-2023
What is the UK Research Integrity Office UKRIO?
The UK Research Integrity Office is an independent advisory body, offering support to the public, researchers, and organisations to further good practise in research.
A registered charity, it was created in response to long-standing and growing concerns about the reliability of research.
UKRIO is the UK’s most experienced research integrity organisation.
Since 2006, it has provided independent and expert support across all disciplines of research, from the arts and humanities to the life sciences.
It works to enhance good research practise, address mistakes, questionable practises and fraud, and improve the culture and systems of UK research.
What is research integrity?
Research integrity is another name for ‘good research practise.
It’s the conduct of research in ways that promote trust and confidence in all aspects of the research process.
Research integrity covers all research and the whole lifecycle, from the initial idea and design of the project through the conduct of the research and its dissemination.
It also covers making sure that environments and systems for research safeguard and enhance good research practise, rather than hinder it – often described as 'research culture'.
See more about research integrity .
In 2021, the University of Suffolk conducted a comprehensive, institution-wide research integrity review.
The University of Suffolk Research Ethics Committee are overseeing the implementation of the recommendations from the review.
First Point of Contact Regarding Research Integrity - In the event of any enquiries or concerns regarding issues of research integrity, please contact the Head of Research Culture, Andreea Tocca at research.ethics@uos.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/research-culture/hr-excellence-in-research-award:
The University of Suffolk gained the HR Excellence in Research Award from the European Commission and we have been successful again in retaining this Award at the 6-year external review in 2023 and have held this award since 2017.
Once again, the University of Suffolk's dedication to advancing the careers of its researchers has received recognition.
Vitae, a global leader in fostering the professional growth of researchers, has reaffirmed the European Commission's HR Excellence in Research Award.
This award serves as public acknowledgment of the University's commitment to its research community.
What is the Award?
A UK wide process enabling institutions to gain the European Commission’s ‘HR Excellence in Research’ badge which acknowledges alignment with the principles of the European Charter for Researchers and the Code of Conduct for recruitment.
The University of Suffolk initially earned the HR Excellence in Research Award in 2017, which allows us to display the European Commission's 'HR Excellence in Research' badge, signifying our alignment with the European Charter for Researchers and the Code of Conduct .
Our university also supports the principles outlined in the UK Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers .
This commitment is exemplified by our numerous initiatives undertaken throughout the institution, demonstrating our dedication to our researchers and their research endeavours.
The award acknowledges that institutions have completed a gap analysis of their existing policies and practice against the Concordat, developed a robust action plan for implementation, and taken into account the views of researchers.
About Vitae
Vitae are an international programme, a not-for-profit registered UK charity dedicated to active career learning and development.
Working since 1968, when they ran their first project to support transitions of doctoral researchers to industry, Vitae has great expertise at enhancing the skills and career impact of researchers locally, within a global context.
They launched a membership programme in January 2015.
They now work all over the world in partnership with researchers, higher education institutions, research organisations, research funders and other organisations with a stake in realising the potential of researchers.
View Vitae member organisations.
The expert peer review team unanimously agreed that the University has demonstrated strong, transparent research culture with forward-thinking and inclusive senior leaders as well as outstanding progress embedding the Concordat Principles within its research structures and governance.
The HR Excellence in Research Award is an important mechanism for implementing the principles of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers and in retaining their Awards UK institutions demonstrate their long-term commitment to the career development of researchers.
There are currently 96 Vitae UK member institutions with the Award.
"We are delighted that our thriving research culture has again been recognised and rewarded.
The University of Suffolk initially achieved the HR Excellence in Research Award in 2017.
It enables institutions to gain the European Commission's 'HR Excellence in Research' badge, acknowledging alignment with the principles of the European Charter for Researchers and Code of Conduct for their Recruitment.
The University of Suffolk both endorses and supports the principles of the UK Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, and this is exemplified by the many activities undertaken across the University which demonstrate our commitment to all our researchers and their research careers.
We are committed to empowering and supporting all researchers to conduct research at the highest level.
We are thrilled that this excellence has been recognised by the European Commission." Professor Emma Bond, Pro Vice-Chancellor Research
Andreea Tocca, Head of Research Development .
"I have really enjoyed working closely with our researchers to understand their needs and see what we can do to improve their experience here at the University of Suffolk and more broadly across the sector.
The experience has been insightful and I am looking forward to exemplify the many activities underway within the University which continues to demonstrate our commitment to our researchers and their broader research skills development.
We are thrilled that this has been recognised by the European Commission."
Thank you to each one of our colleagues for both direct and indirect contributions to this great accomplishment.
The nine-year review will take place in 2026.
If you have any comments or feedback on the plan or would like to be more involved in our work, please contact us for further information at researchoffice@uos.ac.uk .
Vitae will be releasing the press release via the Vitae website on Monday 23 October 2023.
University of Suffolk HR Excellence in Research Award Progress since 2017
The University of Suffolk initially successfully gained the HR Excellence in Research Award from the European Commission in June 2017.
The following documents reviews our progress since 2017 and outlines our vision and the practical actions that demonstrate our continued commitment to supporting and developing our research staff.
UoS HR Excellence in Research Award 2017

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/research-culture/responsible-and-fair-research-assessment:
The University of Suffolk has officially signed the Coalition for Advancing Research Assessment (CoARA), a European-led initiative with global outreach.
The Coalition for Advancing Research Assessment (CoARA) aims to create a unified direction for research assessment reform while preserving the independence of participating organisations.
Launched on January 1, 2022, the coalition promotes the improvement of research evaluation practices worldwide.
Signing the Agreement is an opportunity to signal publicly the willingness of our University to reform research assessment along the agreed Principles, and to implement the agreed Commitments according to the agreed timeframe.
CoARA is an international effort to transform how research is assessed.
Its primary goal is to promote a research evaluation system that is inclusive, transparent, and responsible.
The coalition seeks to establish common guidelines for reforming research assessment, focusing on improving the quality and impact of research while respecting the autonomy of individual organisations.
CoARA champions diverse research outputs and fair assessment processes, helping the academic community enhance its research culture and standards.
CoARA envisions an assessment system that recognises the variety of contributions, activities, and practices that drive research quality and impact.
It emphasises qualitative judgments, with peer review playing a crucial role, and supports this with the responsible use of quantitative metrics.
By signing the CoARA Agreement, the University of Suffolk demonstrates its commitment to reforming research assessment in alignment with CoARA's principles and takes on the obligation to implement these changes.
CoARA has outlined ten commitments for its signatories:
By the end of 2025, the University of Suffolk plans to begin reviewing its research assessment criteria, tools, and processes.
Over the coming years, the university will work toward fulfilling CoARA's commitments.
The university will conduct self-assessments and collaborate with other CoARA signatories to share knowledge, address challenges, and learn from their experiences.
The agreement is open for signature to organisations from across the world.
As of 15 October 2024, 796 organisations have signed the agreement.
Stay updated on the latest news by following CoARA's social media outlets:
X (Twitter): @CoARAssessment
LinkedIn: Coalition for Advancing Research Assessment
Mastodon: @CoARAssessment
YouTube: @CoARAssessment
Discover the latest news from the Coalition!
The San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA) aims to reform the way academic research quality is assessed and measured.
University of Suffolk is committed to the principles of DORA and is working with partners to implement them.
DORA’s recommendations urge institutions to stop using journal-based metrics, such as Journal Impact Factors (JIF), as a proxy for the quality of individual research articles when evaluating researchers for hiring, promotion, or funding decisions.
It emphasises that research should be assessed based on its intrinsic merits rather than the reputation of the journal in which it is published.
DORA encourages universities, researchers, and other stakeholders to take advantage of the opportunities offered by online publication and to be transparent about the criteria used in hiring, tenure, and promotion processes.
It underscores that, particularly for early-career researchers, the content and quality of the research itself are far more important than publication metrics or the journal's identity.
Additionally, DORA advocates for a more comprehensive approach to research assessment, recommending that institutions value a broad range of research outputs, including datasets, software, and other contributions.
It also encourages the use of diverse impact measures, such as qualitative indicators that reflect the influence of research on policy, practice, and societal outcomes.
Universities who sign DORA should:
Researchers should:

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/research-culture/athena-swan:
As a university we are delighted to have achieved our institutional Bronze Athena Swan award.
The University of Suffolk has robustly maintained its commitment to gender equality, and we are very proud of the significant achievements we have made since gaining our independence in 2016.
In 2021, we committed to adopt the Athena Swan principles and develop our first submission, because we recognised how the Athena Swan journey can help us achieve greater equity and equality for all genders and intersecting identities institution wide.
Promoting Gender Equality: We are committed to advancing gender equality through a range of initiatives and policies that support the career development of all staff and students.
Our goal is to identify and address barriers to equality, creating opportunities for everyone to succeed.
Supporting Career Development: We prioritise the career development of women and underrepresented groups in academia.
Our initiatives include mentorship programs, leadership development workshops, and tailored career advice to help individuals navigate their professional journeys and reach their full potential.
Creating an Inclusive Work Environment: Fostering an inclusive work environment is a key priority for us.
We are dedicated to ensuring that our policies and practices are fair, transparent, and supportive of all staff.
This includes promoting a healthy work-life balance, offering flexible working options, and providing family-friendly policies to support our staff members.
We have an exciting five-year journey ahead as part of our Athena Swan commitment.
While we are proud of our achievements to date, we are focused on building upon this strong foundation with the aim of achieving Silver status within the next five years.
The Athena Swan Charter was established in 2005 by the Equality Challenge Unit, now known as Advance HE, to promote and recognise efforts to advance the careers of women in STEMM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics, and Medicine) in higher education and research.
In May 2015, the charter was expanded to include arts, humanities, social sciences, business, and law, as well as professional and support roles.
Today, the charter addresses gender equality more broadly, focusing on eliminating barriers to progression for all genders, not just women.
Good practices recognised by the Athena Swan Charter include:
Our commitment to the Athena Swan Charter principles will help foster a diverse, inclusive, and dynamic working environment for both our staff and students.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/research-and-knowledge-exchange/public-engagement:
We are delighted that the National Co-ordinating Centre (NCCPE) has recently awarded the University of Suffolk a Bronze Watermark for Public Engagement.
“As a civic university, public engagement is at the heart of everything we do and supports our ambition to deliver a positive transformation within the region.
This watermark is an important milestone in our growth as we continue to build strong relationships with our research, business and local communities.”
Professor Jenny Higham, Vice-Chancellor at the University of Suffolk
What is the Public Engagement Watermark?
Public engagement describes the myriad of ways in which the activity and benefits of higher education and research can be shared with the public, and the Engage Watermark is a national award that recognises institutional excellence in public engagement.
The Watermark is both a rigorous assessment and a developmental process providing a rich source of data and insight, supported by expert recommendations and enabling an institution to further embed its support for impactful public engagement.
It provides external validation of a university’s commitment to embedding engagement strategically, aligning with sector-wide initiatives such as the Knowledge Exchange Framework (KEF), Research Excellence Framework (REF), and KE Concordat.
The Watermark process invites universities to reflect on their current public engagement practice— assessing the understanding and awareness of public engagement, the support for high quality engagement activities, and the institution’s strategic intent—through a university-wide survey, a series of site-visits, and one-to-one interviews.
Universities can then use the recommendations to develop a robust plan to enhance their engagement work moving forward.
Winning a Bronze Engage Watermark is a significant step for the University of Suffolk and demonstrates our commitment to developing and enhancing our approach to public engagement.
“The NCCPE seeks to enhance the quality and impact of public engagement with the HE sector.
We're thrilled to award the University of Suffolk a Bronze watermark award, recognising their strengths, support for, and dedication to public engagement.
We were inspired by the university's commitments to making an impact locally, and their excellent engagement with local organisations to address community needs.
We are excited to see how Suffolk builds on these strong foundations to grow and develop their engagement work”
Sophie Duncan, Co-Director of the NCCPE
Public Engagement is deeply embedded in our civic mission and knowledge exchange strategy
We actively foster public engagement through research projects that directly benefit our communities, particularly in our areas of excellence: health and wellbeing, social justice, creative digital technologies, and sustainable energy.
We support staff and students through dedicated training and development opportunities, recognising and rewarding high-quality engagement activities.
Our partnerships with local organisations ensure our research and knowledge exchange activities remain relevant and impactful, while our inclusive approach ensures we reach diverse audiences across Suffolk.
The future of public engagement lies in genuine co-creation with communities.
While universities have traditionally focused on 'sharing' knowledge, we believe the next evolution is about collaborative knowledge creation.
This means reimagining community members not just as audiences but as partners in research and innovation.
“I am delighted that we have received a bronze watermark award in recognition of our commitment to public engagement and for the framework we have put in place to support it.
I would like to thank my colleagues across the University who embed the principles of public engagement in their work.”
Professor Emma Bond, Pro Vice-Chancellor Research and Knowledge Exchange at the University of Suffolk
The University of Suffolk Article on the National Co-ordinating Centre for Public Engagement's website
Introducing Public Engagement

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/research-culture/research-excellence-framework-ref/our-ref-2021-submission:
The published REF 2021 results indicate that the University produces world-leading and internationally excellent research, as measured by the latest REF assessment.
The REF evaluates both the quality and impact of research at UK universities to provide an independent confirmation of the strength of the University’s research and how it makes a real difference nationally and internationally.
The outcome of the University of Suffolk’s submission to REF 2021 was a tremendous achievement for the University given that it relatively recently gained independence as a university in 2016.
The University made its first REF submission in Social Work and Social Policy (UoA 20).
Twelve per cent of the University’s research outputs were rated as 4* quality that is world-leading in terms of originality, significance, and rigour and 56% as 3* which are of a quality that is internationally excellent in terms of originality, significance, and rigour.
This was an outstanding result for the University to be recognised officially as having research outputs that are both world-leading and internationally excellent.
Overall, the University’s research impact was rated at 3* as having considerable impact in terms of both reach and significance.
This outcome provides a firm foundation for the University’s ambitious plans to further develop its research agenda and culture in the next five years.
Since the 2021 submission, the University has invested well over a £1M to transform its research environment and infrastructure to lay the foundations for a significant submission into the next REF exercise.
The University has already achieved impressive research distinctions and impact in Social Work and Social Policy; Public Health, Health Services and Primary Care; Environmental Sciences; Computer Science; and Sport and Exercise Science.
Professor Helen Langton, Vice-Chancellor of the University of Suffolk said: “We are delighted with the outcome of REF 2021.
These excellent results evidence the University’s efforts to deliver on its vision of transforming lives locally, nationally and globally and the impact of our research is vital to our success in meeting that goal.
Our rapidly growing trajectory of attracting research funding and our developing reputation for outstanding research in line with our research specialisms are reflected in these results which provide significant assurance of our future position as an internationally recognised, high quality research institution.
The impact of our research is clear, benefiting society and the communities we serve with almost 70% per cent of our submissions achieving a rating of world-leading and international excellence.
The Board and I would like to personally thank all colleagues involved for this significant achievement."
The University of Suffolk’s submission for REF 2021 was led by Professor Emma Bond, Pro Vice-Chancellor Research.
All staff who met the REF 2021 definitions of having significant responsibility for research and being an independent researcher were submitted to REF 2021 although the University of Suffolk were granted exceptions from submission in eight Units of Assessment (UoAs) due to small numbers of FTE in those UoAs.
Research outputs counted for 60 per cent of the overall quality rating for each Unit of Assessment (UoA) in REF 2021.
The established tariff, based on the number of FTE submitted to a UoA, calculates the number of outputs that must be submitted.
For every 1.0 FTE submitted, 2.5 outputs were required which were on the basis of ‘Originality’, ‘Rigour’ and ‘Significance’.
Twelve per cent of the University’s research outputs were rated as 4* quality that is world-leading in terms of originality, significance and rigour and 56% as 3* which are of a quality that is internationally excellent in terms of originality, significance and rigour.
For REF2021, Research England introduced an Open Access policy against which all journal articles and conference proceedings published since 1 April 2016 were required to be compliant, although some exceptions were possible.
Our research outputs are available on OARS - Open Access Repository Suffolk, which is a digital archive of research outputs produced by University of Suffolk staff.
For the purposes of the REF 2021, impact was defined as an effect on, change or benefit to the economy, society, culture, public policy or services, health, the environment, or quality of life, beyond academia.
The Impact element of REF 2021 carried a weighting of 25 per cent of the overall assessment.
The number of case studies required in each UoA submission was determined by the number (full-time equivalent) of staff returned in the submission.
The University of Suffolk submitted 2 impact case studies to REF 2021 both of which were assessed at 3* and having considerable impact in terms of both reach and significance.
Addressing Criminal and Sexual Exploitation of Young and Vulnerable People involved in “County Lines” Drug Distribution Networks.
II.
Sharing intimate images online –effectively responding to online sexual abuse and improving support for child victims.
The environment element of the REF 2021 counted for 15 per cent of the overall quality rating and was assessed in terms of a UoA’s 'vitality and sustainability', including its contribution to the vitality and sustainability of the wider discipline or research base during the assessment period (1 August 2013 to 31 July 2020).
All HEIs submitting to the REF were required to return a single institutional level (IL) environment statement in addition to an environment template for each submitting unit they were returning to the REF.
The REF sub-panels used the information provided in the IL statement to inform and contextualise their assessment of the relevant sections of the unit-level template.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/research-and-knowledge-exchange/phd-study-and-the-suffolk-doctoral-college/phd-subject-areas-and-supervisors/business-management:
Our current supervisors with experience in Business Management are:

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/research-and-knowledge-exchange/phd-study-and-the-suffolk-doctoral-college/phd-subject-areas-and-supervisors/computer-science-and-informatics:
Supervisor: Professor Nicholas Caldwell
The Project
Mobile apps can be considered to be in a state of continuous beta release with minor and major releases being issued regularly.
As always, changes bring the risk of (re)introducing errors to previously working code, necessitating regression testing to eliminate such unwelcome side effects.
Testing user interfaces in particular can frequently be a manual and tedious process, which is at risk of human error due to inattention, missing particular paths, etc.
There are some promising approaches to automating some of this testing, and so this research would seek to investigate artificial intelligence and/or computer vision techniques that can address this problem.
We already have one company interested in providing exemplar real-world apps and data sets to support this research.
The student will have also access to the University’s new multi-million-pound DigiTech centre, based on the Adastral Park site, which boasts state-of-the-art machines and an AI Compute Server.
Candidate Requirements
Applicants should hold, or expect to receive, a First Class or good Upper Second Class Honours degree (or the equivalent).
A master’s level qualification would also be advantageous but not essential.
Knowledge of, or a strong interest in mobile app development, software testing and artificial intelligence would be useful.
Non-UK applicants must meet our English language entry requirement.
Enquiries and Applications
Informal enquiries are welcomed and should be directed to Professor Nicholas Caldwell ( n.caldwell@uos.ac.uk )
KEYWORDS
Software Testing, Mobile Apps, Artificial Intelligence
Supervisors: Professor Nicholas Caldwell ( n.caldwell@uos.ac.uk ) and Dr Chris Lewington ( c.lewington2@uos.ac.uk )
The protection of personal data is becoming increasingly important, particularly with respect to the explosion of internet and cloud-based services that make use of personal data as part of a revenue generating business model.
The use of (fully) homomorphic encryption techniques has been demonstrated in recent years to be privacy preserving for a growing number of applications, for example gene imputation.
The techniques currently require in-depth expert knowledge of cryptography, but recent work (for example at Microsoft) has begun to investigate compiler technologies that would make privacy-preserving encryption accessible to software developers.
This research would involve the development of advanced compiler models and software libraries that will then enable service developers to build privacy-preserving tools without needing to know anything about the personal data of an individual.
It is expected that one or more cross-discipline case studies will be developed in particular application areas to demonstrate the usability and effectiveness of the research.
The student will have access to the University’s new multi-million-pound DigiTech centre, based on the Adastral Park site, which boasts state-of-the-art machines and software dedicated to cyber security.
Knowledge of cryptography, complier techniques, software development and bioinformatics would be useful.
Informal enquiries are welcomed and should be directed to Dr Chris Lewington ( c.lewington2@uos.ac.uk )
Homomorphic encryption, privacy-preserving technology, cloud computing security
The use of Open Source Intelligence (OSINT) to assist in the investigation of alleged crimes is a well-established approach, with organisations such as Bellingcat carrying out ground-breaking work in obtaining and analysing possible evidence from online sources.
One of the essential criteria for assessing potential evidence is that of credibility – it is often a non-trivial task, even with dedicated tool support, to sift through large amounts of potentially relevant information to assess the veracity and relevance of one or more datasets.
Techniques from artificial intelligence (specifically machine learning) offer promise here, and this research would aim to develop models and corresponding implementations which could help to speed up OSINT analysis and investigation.
Knowledge of open source intelligence techniques, software development and human rights would be useful.
OSINT, Machine Learning, open source intelligence techniques, passive reconnaissance
Supervisors: Dr.
Kakia Chatsiou, k.chatsiou@uos.ac.uk Dr.
Suha Al-Naimi, s.al-naimi@uos.ac.uk
Background and Motivation
Messenger RNA–or mRNA– is an essential component of all living organisms.
mRNA is a messenger - it interacts with other components in cells, carrying instructions to make a specific protein.
mRNA delivers these instructions, or “blueprints” so that cells can put the protein together.
Once this process is complete done, an mRNA is broken down by the body.
mRNA teaches human bodies how to make their own medicine – COVID19 mRNA vaccines are only one of the examples where mRNA can be used to give cells directions to make a particular protein.
Cardiovascular diseases are another area of application, where studying the proteins missing or produced by such groups of patients can help scientists produce a treatment plan or new medicines.
The structure of mRNA is still not fully mapped and still holds secrets for scientists, and this project explores the idea of using Machine Learning or more specifically, Deep Learning for Natural Language Processing to explore novel ways of extracting patterns and genes and protein information from mRNA sequencing data.
Project Aims
The aim of the project is to work with mRNA sequencing data from cardiovascular disease patients employing methods widely used in detecting patterns in text data from the machine learning and deep learning to study the structure of mRNA and detect its minimal units from existing sequencing data.
The applicant will initially be working on public datasets available in the machine learning and bioinformatics community and inhouse sequencing datasets held by the Suffolk AI (Artificial Intelligence) Research Group members.
Machine and Deep learning models will be developed by the student to take multi-modal data as input and generate the high-quality representations as mentioned above.
At a later stage, a new dataset would be constructed, and novel algorithms will be developed upon that to answer the challenging questions within this topic and beyond.
PhD researchers affiliated with this project will be based in our state-of-the-art DigiTech Centre at Adastral Park, launched in the summer of 2021.
A collaboration between the University of Suffolk and BT, with funding from the New Anglia Local Enterprise Partnership (LEP), the centre has been established to provide training in innovative digital skills for people looking to pursue careers in the nationally essential information and communications technology (ICT) sector, as well as fuelling high tech businesses who increasingly require access to a talented technology workforce.
The centre houses four high-end computer laboratories complete with industry-standard software and tools and a dedicated high-end AI server.
In addition, PhD students will have access to dedicated comping labs at the Atrium building, in Ipswich, technology focused communal areas, full access to the library resources and other on campus facilities.
Applicants should hold, or expect to receive, a First Class or good Upper Second Class Honours and/or a postgraduate degree with Distinction (or an international equivalent).
We also consider applicants from diverse backgrounds that have provided them with equally rich relevant experience and knowledge.
Full-time and part-time study modes are available.
Applicants should have the following essential knowledge and skills:
Applications from applicants with one or more of the following knowledge and skills will be preferred:
Informal enquiries are welcomed and should be directed to Dr.
Kakia Chatsiou at k.chatsiou@uos.ac.uk
Machine Learning, Natural Language Processing, Data Science, Artificial Intelligence, Bioinformatics, cardiovascular diseases, ML for disease detection
Supervisor:
Kakia Chatsiou, k.chatsiou@uos.ac.uk
The Industry 4.0 concept aims to the deployment of a large amount of sensor and actuator devices forming an Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT) network.
Such IIoT information systems can collect data from all over the shop floor or agricultural unit and can be aggregated to the edge of the network.
Edge computing, Edge Intelligence and Federated Machine Learning have been playing an important role in that ecosystem, which heavily rely on the integration of diverse technological solutions to build an intelligent manufacturing ecosystem through the amalgamation of customization, predictive maintenance, digital twin, web-based systems, open connectivity, etc.
Edge intelligence, i.e., artificial intelligence (AI) applications with edge computing (edge AI) for training/testing or inference, is an important element for IIoT applications to build a model that can learn from the high amount of aggregated data.
Predictive maintenance is a method of preventing future machinery failure by analysing data during production to detect abnormalities ahead of time, so appropriate measures can be taken before damage can be done to the production line.
With faults and failures forecast well before their occurrence, saving money and time for businesses and manufacturing companies, implementing predictive maintenance programs in manufacturing sectors requires condition monitoring of equipment's critical variables and then deploying intelligent techniques to predict the occurrence of failure.
The data processing and predictions in predictive maintenance can be ventured as Edge AI techniques, which will be more feasible options for small- and medium-scale industries.
The applicant will work with the supervisor and other academic staff within the Digital Futures and Suffolk AI Research Group to define their specialised area of work depending on their expertise, speaking to one of the areas above.
The School and the Digital Futures Institute has excellent links with industry, and it is expected that the project will benefit from direct input and collaborations with local manufacturing partners and cross-pollination of ideas (EDF Sizewell, Openreach BT, Celotex among others).
A collaboration between the University of Suffolk and BT, with funding from the New Anglia Local Enterprise Partnership (LEP), the centre has been established to provide training in cutting-edge digital skills for people looking to pursue careers in the nationally important information and communications technology (ICT) sector, as well as fuelling high tech businesses who increasingly require access to a talented technology workforce.
The centre houses three high-end computer laboratories complete with industry-standard software and tools and a dedicated high-end AI server.
Non-UK applicants must meet our English language entry requirements.
Informal enquiries are encouraged and should be directed to Dr.
Machine Learning, Data Science, Artificial Intelligence, Manufacturing AI, Agriculture AI, ML (Machine Learning) for Embedded Systems and IoT (Internet of Things), Edge Artificial Intelligence, Industrial Internet of Things, Federated Active Transfer Learning
Supervisor: Adam Clayden a.clayden@uos.ac.uk
Previous research into shared participation in recreational experiences has shown to positively contribute to factors such as wellbeing and experience enjoyment (Boothby, et al., 2014; Boothby, et al., 2016).
Additionally, there have been recent exploratory studies aimed at better understanding player perspectives with regards to shared recreation (Haqq & McCrickard, 2020).
What is not currently clear, are the underlying mechanisms that contribute to a gameplay experience that is not only enjoyable, but also promotes socially meaningful interactions and other factors such as connectedness with nature.
The goal of this project, is to make contributions to the exergame and interdependent play space for the purpose of improving a person’s physical and mental wellbeing.
It is expected that the PhD student will engage in a body of research aimed at understanding and establishing mechanisms that contribute to this area of game design and also design and build such games that can be played by the general public.
Typical outcomes will involve submitting theoretical and practical work to annual conferences such as Foundations of Digital Games and CHI PLAY.
At the University of Suffolk, you will have access to our state-of-the-art games lab, the specialist laboratories in our DigiTech Centre, as well as other relevant facilities such as our Sports Science lab.
Knowledge of games development and/or programming is essential.
It is advantageous to have a working knowledge of univariate statistics but this is not essential and can be learned throughout the PhD.
Informal enquiries are welcomed and should be directed to Adam Clayden ( a.clayden@uos.ac.uk )
References
Boothby, E.
J., Clark, M.
S., Bargh, J.
A., (2014) ‘Shared experiences are amplified.’, Psychological Science , 25(12), 2209-2216.
J., Smith, L.
K., Clark, M.
A., (2016) ‘Psychological distance moderates the amplification of shared experience.
Personality and Social Psychology Bulletin , 42(10), 1431-1444
Haqq, D., McCrickard, D.
S., (2020) ‘Playing Together while Apart: Exploring Asymmetric and Interdependent Games for Remote Play’ Extended Abstracts of the 2020 Annual Symposium on Computer-Human Interaction in Play (CHI PLAY ’20 ESA) .
Virtual Event, Canada 2-4 November 2020.
ACM, New York, NY USA, pp.
253-256
Exergaming, HCI, interdependent, share recreation, games design
Supervisors:
Professor Nicholas Caldwell ( n.caldwell@uos.ac.uk ) and Dr Chris Lewington ( c.lewington2@uos.ac.uk )
About the project
The School of Technology, Business and Arts at the University of Suffolk is inviting applications for the following project.
AI systems are frequently portrayed as being complex, unpredictable and often prone to ‘hallucination’.
Treating the development of an AI system as an inherent engineering problem, the current products, services and literature point to a significant absence of software engineering best practice.
The title of the project is deliberately derived from Dijkstra’s seminal book ‘A Discipline of Programming’, which advocates for a structured and rigorous approach to software development.
Arguably such discipline is missing from the current ways in which Machine Learning (ML) systems are currently designed and built.
This research would focus on the development of sound engineering principles and practices to support the development of robust, testable and maintainable AI systems, using as a foundation the core principles and experience generated from the many decades of software engineering best practice.
For example, models, techniques and tools developed for best practice in software architecture, design techniques using Data Flow Diagrams, Threat modelling techniques, best practice programming techniques and testing frameworks at all levels will be ‘repurposed’ to create bespoke equivalents that put AI systems development on a much stronger engineering footing, bringing benefits of traceability, maintainability and understanding that is currently missing.
Tools to support Intelligent Machine Engineering will also be produced, for example design tools and IDE plugins.
Knowledge of Machine Learning techniques and libraries, software engineering principles and IT systems development best practice would be useful.
Machine learning, software engineering, software lifecycle, software architecture and design
The classical perimeter-based approach to cyber security, which focuses most attention on securing a network boundary, is becoming less appropriate particularly for cloud-based architectures, where users, applications, servers, and access devices can be globally dispersed and varied.
Moreover, a perimeter-based security solution will not guard against insider threats, as users or devices located within the perimeter are assumed to be ‘safe’.
The approach of Zero Trust Architectures (ZTA) instead places emphasis on users, attributes, and resources, assuming instead that every type of access is untrusted and the mantra of ‘never trust, always verify’ is applied throughout a system.
Frameworks exist for ZTA, however actual implementations are few in number for various reasons.
Related to the lack of concrete ZTA examples is the fact that even those that exist rely upon standard cryptographic techniques for authentication and access control.
There is much interest currently in quantum technologies, and it has already been shown that (with a sufficiently powerful quantum computer) existing public-key cryptographic techniques, which secure the whole of the internet, could be broken easily.
ZTA solutions, therefore, will need to address this issue to ensure that future implementations will be quantum-robust, and currently there are several Post-Quantum Cryptography (PQC) solutions that NIST are in the process of finalising as standards for digital signatures and key encapsulation/exchange.
This PhD work will build on research that is currently under way at the University of Suffolk to create a robust ZTA example implementation that can also be suitably modified to ensure post-quantum safety.
Knowledge of Zero Trust Architectures (ZTA), attribute-based/functional encryption, software engineering and system design, cryptography (especially post-quantum techniques) would be useful.
Zero-trust, quantum cryptography, attribute-based encryption, cloud computing security
Professor Nicholas Caldwell ( n.caldwell@uos.ac.uk )
Computing systems and software can and does aid in addressing the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals through reducing travel (communicate via video conferencing rather than commuting), calculating fuel-efficient logistics, smart agriculture, and so on.
All of these are the use of computing for sustainability.
Unfortunately the manufacture, operation and disposal of computing resources has a large environmental cost and as data centres and AI applications have grown in popularity, so has the contribution of the information and computing technology sector to total greenhouse gas emissions.
By 2018, it was estimated to have reached 4 to 5% (twice the emissions from air travel).
Bitcoin/cryptocurrencies and modern data centers have been reported as placing significant strain on national energy infrastructures.
This research is therefore focused on the sustainability of computing and what techniques can be employed to reduce energy consumption and hence the carbon/greenhouse gas footprint of computing use, specifically software.
In previous research, we have found intriguing and unexpected insights in the relationships of energy usage versus performance, task complexity, and execution speed for real software components.
We would like to expand our understanding of the factors underpinning energy consumption of different type of software components and especially where software components have unexpectedly high performance and energy costs.
The end goals of this research will be how to determine whether a particular software component is “sustainable” and how we can develop software that is more energy efficient in terms of programming and software engineering
Knowledge of computer programming, software engineering principles and IT systems development best practice would be useful.
Sustainable computing, software engineering, software lifecycle, software architecture and design
Muhammad Shahroz Nadeem ( s.nadeem3@uos.ac.uk )
Large Language Models (LLMs) like ChatGPT, DeepSeek, Copilot and Llama [1] are becoming a big part of our daily lives.
They are used everywhere—from helping businesses write reports to assisting students with assignments, and even answering casual questions [2].
However, as great as these tools are, they can also create problems.
Sometimes the information they provide isn’t correct, and in other cases, their answers might raise ethical or safety concerns [3].
The problem gets worse when people rely too much on these tools without a way to check if the information is accurate or safe [4].
For example, students might use wrong facts in their reports, researchers could include errors in papers, and misinformation might spread quickly online.
This can lead to serious issues, especially in fields like education, healthcare, and public safety.
The goal of this research is to create a "Watchdog LLM"—an AI system designed to keep an eye on how these LLMs perform.
It will test and rate them based on how accurate, unbiased, and safe their responses are, especially when it comes to sensitive or controversial topics.
The Watchdog LLM will address some of the biggest concerns people have with AI tools:
Applicants should hold, or expect to receive, a First Class or good Upper Second-Class Honours degree (or the equivalent).
Informal enquiries are welcomed and should be directed to Shahroz Nadeem ( s.nadeem3@uos.ac.uk )
References:

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/research-and-knowledge-exchange/phd-study-and-the-suffolk-doctoral-college/phd-subject-areas-and-supervisors/creative-writing-english-and-linguistics:
Dr Jenny Amos is a socio-phonologist who specialises in modelling dialect variation, lecturing in Linguistics at the University of Suffolk.
Lindsey is Course Leader for MA Creative and Critical Writing and award-winning lecturer specialising in children’s literature and adaptation.
Andrea is Lecturer in English and Creative Writing.
Her career prior to joining the University included working for two Suffolk newspapers and the BBC.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/research-and-knowledge-exchange/phd-study-and-the-suffolk-doctoral-college/phd-subject-areas-and-supervisors/criminology-and-psychology:
Dr Isabella Calder is a Senior Lecturer in Criminology whose research includes work around the use of top-up shops and justice and security.
Dr Dogaru is the course leader for MRes Social Sciences and Humanities.
He is a paediatrician-turned-social scientist with 20 years of experience in his field.
Dr Paul Andell has more than 25 years of experience of working in the criminal justice field, and is now Associate Professor in Criminology at Suffolk.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/research-and-knowledge-exchange/phd-study-and-the-suffolk-doctoral-college/phd-subject-areas-and-supervisors/education--childhood-studies:
Ivana is an Associate Professor in Childhood and Education.
Nigerian-born Dr Pere Ayling is a Senior Lecturer in Early Years and has over 10 years of teaching experience in early years, primary and higher education.
Pallawi is Senior Lecturer in Childhood Studies and is passionate about building dialogue and understanding on education and childhoods.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/research-and-knowledge-exchange/phd-study-and-the-suffolk-doctoral-college/phd-subject-areas-and-supervisors/fine-art-and-architecture:
Originally from Los Angeles, Susan works across multiple media and has an MFA in film from the California Institute of the Arts.
Nicola is an Associate Professor in Visual Arts.
Dr Bowman is a widely-published art critic and historian.
His research focuses on twentieth century and contemporary art, criticism, photography and more.
Urban planner and architect Marco specialises in urban narrativity, sustainability and circular economy, as well as the steel industry in developments.
Jane is a lecturer in Fine Art and has undertaken large-scale temporary and permanent public art commissions, also exhibiting nationally and internationally.
Supervisors: Dr Susan Barnet, Dr Jane Watt, Dr Matt Bowman
About The Projects
We invite PhD proposals that examine the expanded field of contemporary art through studio practice.
These may address questions and concerns including installation, site-specificity, and engaged practice.
Approaches may consider the examination of contemporary art practice and its historical and contemporary contexts; uses of and relationships between analogue and/or digital media; questions of materiality/immateriality within the field of contemporary art; the impact of technology on contemporary art practices; installation and contemporary art practice; performance and contemporary art practice; social engagement within contemporary art practices; sculptural and spatial concerns in contemporary art practices; explorations of site and place; questions of spectatorship.
We are interested in trans-disciplinary projects facilitating new modes of expression that locate themselves where some of the above concerns may intersect.
The School of EAST is a cross-disciplinary faculty embracing Business, Computing, Games, Life Sciences and the Arts (Architecture, Film Production, Fine Art, Graphic Design and Photography).
Non-UK applicants must meet our English language entry requirement .
Informal enquiries are welcomed and should be directed to Dr Jane Watt (J.Watt@uos.ac.uk)
Contemporary Art Practice, Site – Specificity, Socially Engaged Practice, Trans-Disciplinary
Supervisor: Dr Marco Spada ( m.spada@uos.ac.uk )
Background
The pollutants produced by large industrial areas, which are usually located close to densely populated areas, have a potentially devastating impact on both the ecological and environmental aspects of territories, and on the health of citizens.
The processes of deindustrialisation have also made these phenomena clearer, with the reduction of investments in territorial safety and the progressive abandonment of socio-economic policies on the territory.
The location and size of the plants, and international differences in data collection, have made a coherent view of the phenomenon in a European panorama virtually impossible.
The lack of a unified analysis in terms of air/water pollution, lifestyle, socioeconomic status and geographic components, therefore, shows how an integrated approach between human geography and clinical analysis is essential to understand the impacts of industrial facilities on entire parts of territories.
English cities such as Scunthorpe, Redcar, Skinningrove, and European cities such as Taranto, Ijmuiden, and Rybnik, have been dominated by an industry that - too big to fail - has defined the contours of the industrial landscape and the experiences of citizens, families and entire communities.
The aim of the project is to study different aspects of the management of reuse and land reclamation policies for areas close to large steel plants.
The study will take place in the same period as the HORIZON Project (months 13-36), but not with the same funding, and will provide a set of techniques for drafting innovative analytical methods to study the impact of geographical components on public health.
The applicant will initially be working on the definition of data and datasets, and on the gathering of relevant data.
After a period of assessment of methodologies and evaluation of existing data by foreign partners, missing data will be collected and processed.
The data will cover geographical and physical components, lifestyle (according to QALY-surrogate individual scores), migration dynamics, the acquisition of narratives and biographies, and the analysis of public policies supporting local communities.
We also consider applicants from diverse background that have provided them with equally rich relevant experience and knowledge.
The applicant should demonstrate proficiency in both Python and R language, with a track record in geographical analysis, and a solid experience in paper-writing.
Applicant should have the following essential knowledge and skills:
Applicant should have the following desirable knowledge and skills:
Informal enquiries are welcomed and should be directed to Dr Marco Spada at m.spada@uos.ac.uk
Geography, Architecture, Planning, Steel Mill, Creative Geographies, Data Acquisition, Pollution, Communities, Migrations.
Supervisors: Dr Matt Bowman, Dr Susan Barnet, Dr Jane Watt
We invite PhD proposals that examine histories and theories in the field of contemporary art history, particularly art practices from the 1960s onwards in North America and Europe.
Candidates are invited to research and explore various topics and practices within this field: conceptual and post-conceptual modes of art production; the politics of aesthetics; the growth of poststructuralist and postcolonial theories informing artistic practice; transformations in art criticism and the relationship between artists and critics; art in the age of the Anthropocene; the significance of research and archival strategies within art; questions of judgment and philosophy in the framework of contemporary art and debates; the continuing but complex significance of mediums in a post-medium era; exhibition histories and the rise of the curator.
These examples are ultimately indicative and art is understood in its fullest sense as encompassing a diverse range of procedures that came to define art from the 1960s onwards, whether it be “traditional” mediums such as painting, text-based works, photography in its art context, performance, installation and archive forms.
Trans-disciplinary projects are welcome, especially as our practice-based faculty conjoins various courses in the arts (Fine Art, Architecture, Photography, Graphic Design/Illustration, and Film Production).
As such, this is an exciting opportunity for art historians to study in a lively art school framework and for artists to produce an extended academic text from sustained research.
Informal enquiries are welcomed and should be directed to Dr Matt Bowman (m.bowman@uos.ac.uk)

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/research-and-knowledge-exchange/phd-study-and-the-suffolk-doctoral-college/phd-subject-areas-and-supervisors/health--biological-sciences:
The Schools of Nursing, Midwifery and Public Health and Allied Health Sciences have a talented team of research supervisors who are keen to support you in your research and doctorate journey.
Between us we have many areas of research, teaching and nursing practice expertise.
Some topics we would be keen to work on include:
Please contact our school manager if you would like to discuss working with us to develop your CPD offer, research ideas, practice, or community engagement project.
The School of Allied Health Sciences includes research in the Allied Health Professions and Life Sciences.
Our Allied Health Professions team is comprised of research focused on radiography, paramedic science and physiotherapy.
These areas are housed in the state of the art Health and Wellbeing Building and include simulated wards, an immersive suite, a physiotherapy practical room, an imaging suite and the virtual environment for radiotherapy (VERT).
Our Life Sciences team has diverse interests including biotechnology, cell biology, conservation, ecology, genomics, microbiology, molecular biology, nutrition and pharmacology.
Our modern Life Sciences laboratories are located in the James Hehir building on the historic Ipswich Waterfront and our facilities include stem cell tissue culture laboratories, fluorescence microscopy suite, molecular biology lab (including Oxford Nanopore sequencing) and a microbiology lab.
If you are interested in pursuing a PhD in any of these areas, please contact Dr.
Nick Tucker ( nick.tucker@uos.ac.uk ), the Associate Dean for Research & Knowledge Exchange.
Rachel is an Associate Professor.
After completing her registered nurse training she worked predominantly in acute medicine and rehabilitation.
Dr Christine Nightingale is an Associate Professor in the school of Health, Sciences and Society.
Dr Jude Ominyi is an Associate Professor in the School of Health, Sciences and Society.
Mark is Course Leader in Wildlife, Ecology and Conservation Science.
He works on wildlife distributions and the effects of human activity on animal populations.
Dr Gavin Devereux teaches across a number of degrees in the sport and health sciences, publishes research in the sport and exercise sciences.
Fandi is Associate Professor and Course Leader for Nutrition and Human Health and an internationally recognised expert in the field of functional foods.
Dr Fandi Ibrahim , Dr Suha Al-Naimi, Dr Federica Masieri and Visiting Professor, Mr Martin Sinclair
Enhanced gut barrier function is an essential physical, cellular, and immunological barrier for gut health and beyond.
Yet, it still needs to allow for the absorption of nutrients vital for survival and maintaining health.
There is a fine tune between those two opposing functions known as gut permeability.
The most notable example of dietary factors impact on gut barrier function can be seen in the case of gluten effects in coeliac disease patients.
However, little is known about other dietary factors impact on various healthy and diseased circumstances whether it is a direct impact or indirect effect mediated via gut microbial metabolites and their interactions.
Impaired gut barrier is also a feature of microbial dysbiosis which in turn associated with gut related diseases, obesity, diabetes, and cardiovascular risk.
Therefore, this PhD project aims to explore the role of a selected dietary factors on gut barrier function and their mechanism of actions and potential health consequences beyond the gut.
The dietary factors to be investigated could include to dietary fibre, resistant proteins, as well as various gut microbial metabolites and microbial components.
Applicants should hold, or expect to receive, a First Class or good Upper Second-Class Honours degree in Nutrition or closely related subjects.
Informal enquiries are welcomed and should be directed to Dr Fandi Ibrahim, f.ibrahim@uos.ac.uk
Gut barrier function, gut permeability, gut microbiota, probiotics, dietary fibre, irritable bowel syndrome, gut microbial dysbiosis, gluten.
Integrating data science in football has revolutionised how teams analyse performance, manage player fitness, and develop strategies for matches.
Ipswich Town FC and the University of Suffolk aim to leverage advanced data analysis techniques (e.g., machine learning) to enhance player performance.
This PhD project will focus on developing statistical models that can forecast player fitness, readiness, and performance, thereby supporting evidence-informed decision-making in a professional football environment.
Facilities and Resources:
The University of Suffolk offers state-of-the-art facilities supporting cutting-edge data science and sports analytics research.
Our campus is equipped with modern laboratories and high-performance computing resources.
Students will benefit from a vibrant academic community, with opportunities to collaborate with leading experts in data science, sports science, and machine learning.
Community and Collaboration:
The University of Suffolk prides itself on fostering a supportive and dynamic research environment.
The close relationship between Ipswich Town FC and the University provides a unique opportunity for students to engage in supervised research collaboration, gaining valuable insights into professional sports environments.
All research activities involving Ipswich Town FC will be conducted with appropriate permissions, ensuring alignment with the club’s operational priorities and ethical standards.
Location:
Ipswich is a historic town with a rich cultural heritage and a strong sense of community.
The town offers a variety of recreational and social activities, making it an ideal place for students to live and study.
The University's proximity to Ipswich Town FC allows for seamless integration of academic research and practical application.
Funding:
This is a fully funded PhD opportunity.
The student will receive a stipend payment of approximately £20,780 per annum.
This opportunity is only available to students who are eligible for home fees.
Home fees are covered.
Specific Requirements Of The Candidate:
· A first or upper-second-class BSc Honours degree in sport and exercise science, data science, computer science, statistics, or another related discipline.
An MSc degree is preferred.
· An ability to critique and analyse scientific evidence, methodology, and data.
· An ability to interpret and communicate complex data in terms that are easily understood.
· Proficiency in maintaining records and organizing data files using Microsoft Excel and other related software (e.g., Power BI).
· Knowledge of programming would be a very strong preference (e.g., Python).
How To Apply
Interested applicants should contact Dr Marco Beato (m.beato@uos.ac.uk) for an informal discussion.
To apply, you will need to send your CV and write a cover letter addressing the project’s aims, demonstrating how the skills you have map to the area of research, how your experience makes you suitable for this position, and why you see this area as being of importance and interest.
Applicants should indicate in the body of the email that they are applying for this PhD project.
You will need to email the application form and statement to the Suffolk Doctorate College at: SuffolkDoctoralCollege@uos.ac.uk
Closing date: 4th June 2025
Primary Supervisor/PI: Dr Federica F.
Masieri
Supervisory Team: Dr David Chau (UCL), Dr Fandi Ibrahim
Project description and rationale
We are looking for a motivated graduate to join our award-nominated Biotechnology Unit Lab to work on an exciting project under the supervision of Dr Federica F.
Masieri in collaboration with industrial and academic partners.
Muscle has high injury and degeneration susceptibility, posing a burden of muscle-related injuries on the NHS.
This study aims at exploring new avenues of biophysical stimulation onto muscle cells, coupled with innovative graphene-based biomaterials.
Pulsed Electromagnetic Fields (PEMFs) with selected low-frequency and low-energy biophysical characteristics have shown to counteract inflammation in a variety of musculoskeletal models in vitro and in vivo , whilst promoting anabolic activities in bone, cartilage and tendon.
Interestingly, PEMF has a role in supporting the in vitro differentiation of cells of the mesenchymal lineage, whilst counteracting the detrimental activity of a pro-inflammatory milieu.
Recent evidence suggests that selected PEMF stimuli control the proliferation and modulate the release of myokines in myoblast cells grown in vitro .
This project aims at refining current protocols of application of PEMF in myoblast-like cells grown in vitro , to further elucidate the functional role of the biophysical stimulation in controlling an inflamed microenvironment and identify cellular targets and mechanisms of actions through which PEMF may exert its function.
In the first phase of the project, the effect of PEMF will be tested on at least two cell models (muscle cell line and myoblast-like cells derived from induced pluripotent stem cells).
Subsequently, the evidence obtained will be used to define, in collaboration with our national and international partners, a quasi-vivo model of muscle cell grown in combination with a range of biocompatible hydrogel materials functionalized with graphene, mimicking as closely as possible the architecture of a muscle fibre, to test the effect of PEMF on a scaled-up model, with impact on future translation of the evidence collected towards the clinics.
Related references:
Training and Facilities
The PhD student associated to this project will benefit from the access to state-of-the-art cell biology and biotechnology laboratories located at the James Hehir Building Biotechnology Unit, including, amongst others, dedicated tissue culture facilities, a fluorescence microscopy suit and equipment for molecular and cellular analysis.
For what concerns the biomaterials, these will be synthesised in collaboration with bioengineering experts based at University College London (UCL).
Here, the student will have the chance of learning and conducting a range of advanced tests for biomaterial analysis and characterisation.
Moreover, the student will benefit from the involvement of industrial stakeholders, gaining a perspective of industry-driven translational research.
Finally, the student will benefit from seminars, workshops and other ad-hoc training provided both by the scientists involved in the project, as well as by our Graduate School.
The project is to be considered self-funded, however, there is guaranteed access to laboratories and equipment, and to some basic consumables for lab work.
The ideal candidate should hold, or be expected to receive, a First Class or good Upper Second-Class Honours degree in Biosciences/ Biological Sciences, Biomedical Sciences, Biotechnology, or closely related subjects.
We might consider exceptional and motivated candidates not holding the above, but with a demonstrable track-record of industry and professional experience.
Practice of laboratory work will constitute a plus, especially if the candidate has skills of tissue culturing, and/or biochemical and molecular analysis.
Informal enquiries are welcomed and should be directed to Dr Federica F.
Masieri f.masieri@uos.ac.uk
Muscle cells, biomaterials, biophysical stimuli, graphene, muscle tissue engineering
Primary Supervisor/PI : Dr Federica F.
Supervisory Team : Ms.
Vanessa Ward
Osteoarthritis (OA) is a progressive joint disease that causes pain, inflammation and lack of mobility.
Several cells play a role in joint tissue homeostasis and disease; amongst these, fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLSs) play a central role, via the release of a plethora of pro-inflammatory mediators contributing to the OA microenvironment.
Recently, we have derived induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) from normal and OA FLSs, using a non-integrative technique based on Sendai virus.
These cells represent a powerful tool for the study of cell pathways underlined in OA and may have a future impact application in personalised OA therapy.
Based on the above, the aims of this project involve the further characterisation of our iPSC lines in vitro , via the application of protocols of differentiation towards the mesenchymal lineage and further specification towards becoming cells pertaining to joint tissues, including, amongst others, chondrocyte and osteoblast precursors.
These protocols, informed by recent meta-analysis studies on FLS markers of OA, will help refining our model of ‘OA disease in a cell culture dish’.
Related references
https://www.oarsijournal.com/article/S1063-4584(22)00193-5/fulltext#relatedArticles
The student will benefit from seminars, workshops and other ad-hoc training provided both by the scientists involved in the project, as well as by our Graduate School.
Induced pluripotent stem cells, osteoarthritis, iPSCs, inflammation, stem cell differentiation, disease modelling
Primary Supervisor: Dr Nick Tucker
aeruginosa is an inherently antibiotic resistant pathogen and has been classified as ‘critical’ by the WHO in its list of pathogens for which new antibiotics are required.
aeruginosa is a major bacterial pathogen of patients with cystic fibrosis.
This project aims to determine the transcriptomic response of P.
aeruginosa to drugs used to treat pulmonary disease, including those used to treat cystic fibrosis such as the three drug cocktail Kaftrio.
Initial data suggests that components of Kaftrio cause upregulation of iron starvation genes in P.
aeruginosa strain PA14.
This project will investigate the transcriptional regulators that are responsible for this response along with the siderophore biosynthesis genes that they control.
The ideal candidate should hold, or be expected to receive, a First Class or good Upper Second-Class Honours degree in Biological Sciences, Biomedical Science, Microbiology, Biochemistry or a related discipline.
Informal enquiries are welcomed and should be directed to Dr Nick Tucker nick.tucker@uos.ac.uk
Microbiology, Pseudomonas, Sustainability, Synthetic Biology, Genetics, Genomics, Biochemistry, Infectious Disease, Transcription
putida is tolerant to a wide variety of solvents, particularly those used by the plastics industry.
It is ideally suited to the sustainable production of plastic monomers using synthetic biology approaches as an alternative to petrochemical feedstocks.
This project is an industrial collaboration with a major international chemical corporation.
We have previously identified efflux systems that confer resistance to various solvents used by the plastics industry and the transcriptional regulators that control their expression.
The aim of this project is to disrupt these RND family efflux pumps in P.
putida so that the chemical substrates for each system can be determined.
This work will provide valuable insights into the prioritisation of RND efflux systems in synthetic biology based strain improvement strategies.
Microbiology, Pseudomonas, Sustainability, Synthetic Biology, Genetics, Genomics, Biochemistry, Infectious Diease, Transcription

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/research-and-knowledge-exchange/phd-study-and-the-suffolk-doctoral-college/phd-subject-areas-and-supervisors/heritage-and-history:
John is a military historian with a particular interest in 20th Century conflict.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/research-and-knowledge-exchange/phd-study-and-the-suffolk-doctoral-college/phd-subject-areas-and-supervisors/sport--exercise-science:
Marco is an Associate Professor and Head of Sport and Exercise Science and theme Lead for Physical Activity and Sport, Institute of Health and Wellbeing.
Jane is a Visiting Senior Fellow in Sport and Exercise Physiology.
Dr Stuart McErlain-Naylor is a Lecturer in Sport and Exercise Biomechanics at Loughborough University, UK.

New sentences found on https://uos.ac.uk/research-and-knowledge-exchange/phd-study-and-the-suffolk-doctoral-college/phd-subject-areas-and-supervisors/sustainability:
Suha is an MB ChB, MSc, PhD qualified professional in the fields Chemical Pathology and Metabolic Medicine.
Supervisor: Dr Mark Bowler
About the projects
I am interested in supervising projects in Amazonia on:
My research is focused on the Peruvian Amazon, but research in other tropical forests is also of interest where applicants are already familiar with suitable sites/regions.
A master’s level qualification would be advantageous but not essential.
Experience with data analysis or bioacoustics, especially using R, would also be advantageous.
Informal enquiries are welcomed and should be directed to Mark Bowler m.bowler@uos.ac.uk
Ecology, Amazonia, monkeys, primates, mammals, behaviour, conservation, camera trapping, bioacoustics, tropical, forests
Supervisor: Mark Bowler m.bowler@uos.ac.uk
The Projects
I am interested in supervising projects on the spatial ecology and bioacoustics of mammals in agricultural landscapes in East Anglia.
This project will use camera trapping and remote audio recording to measure mammal distributions.
A focus on bats, larger animals or all mammal groups is possible.
Experience with data analysis, mapping or bioacoustics, especially using R and QGIS, would also be advantageous.
Ecology, mammals, conservation, camera trapping, bioacoustics