# Site: https://www.uwe.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 324
# --------

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk:
Open Days and events
11 October 2025 - Undergraduate On-Campus Open Day
Undergraduate
22 November 2025 - Undergraduate On-Campus Open Day
Explore courses shaped by industry, state-of-the-art facilities and a community that will challenge, excite and support you.
Considering postgraduate study?
Explore the options, flexibility and practical support you’ll need to succeed, whatever your ambition.
Discover a community that will inspire and support you and give you the skills you’ll need for your future career.
Discover our fully online and distance learning courses designed for career professionals.
Student life at UWE Bristol is what you make of it.
Clubs, societies, friends, support are all there for you.
A city buzzing with potential – it’s the perfect place to discover yours.
Feel at home from the moment you arrive with our accommodation options, both on campus and in the city centre.
Get active with a wide range of clubs, societies and well-equipped sports facilities.
There is something here for everyone.
You’ll be set up for success with inspiring campuses and state of the art facilities.
With three campuses spanning the city, you'll find the right place for you.
We’re here to help you discover where your talents lie and bag your dream job.
World leading research with global impact across a wide spectrum of subject areas.
Information and services for business and our partners in education and the community.
We have an extensive network of active alumni across the world who are connecting and supporting each other.
90 %
of our graduates are in work or further study 15 months after graduation.
Graduate Outcome Survey 2021/22, published 2024.
£300 m
£300 million invested in new facilities
4 th
in the South West.
Guardian League Table 2024.
University of the West of England Frenchay Campus Coldharbour Lane Bristol BS16 1QY United Kingdom
Switchboard: +44 (0)117 9656261 View full contact details

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/news/search-results:
Showing 1 - 12 of 671 results.
Media Relations Team,
                                                        26 August 2025
Students from MA Fine Art, MA Graphic Arts, and MA Multi-Disciplinary Printmaking will exhibit their work at the Showcase MA Degree Show, from 4 September.
Media Relations Team,
                                                        22 August 2025
Tracey John, Director of Research and External Engagement, reflects on the impact of Future Space and its role as a launchpad for cutting-edge companies shaping the future of how we live and work.
Media Relations Team,
                                                        20 August 2025
An event brought together through UWE Bristol’s Centre for African Social and Economic Transformation (CASET) discussed innovative approaches to improving graduate employability in Nigeria.
Media Relations Team,
                                                        19 August 2025
UWE Bristol has become the UK’s first higher education institution to join the Conscious Advertising Network, which promotes responsible advertising and marketing practices.
31 July 2025
A large sculpture symbolising unity and interconnectedness has been donated to UWE Bristol by one of its alum.
Media Relations Team,
                                                        30 July 2025
Daryn Carter MBE, director of Bristol Pride, has been awarded an honorary degree by UWE Bristol in recognition of his service to the LGBTQ+ community in Bristol.
Media Relations Team,
                                                        29 July 2025
A paramedic science student who single handedly brought British Sign Language and deaf awareness training to hundreds of his fellow students has graduated.
A group of students from UWE Bristol’s School of Arts are celebrating after winning top industry prizes.
Media Relations Team,
                                                        28 July 2025
UWE Bristol sports rehabilitation student Izzy Thorpe made waves at the World Aquatics Championships winning a bronze medal in artistic swimming on the same day she was meant to be crossing the stage at her university graduation ceremony.
Media Relations Team,
                                                        22 July 2025
Angellica Bell, a prominent figure on British television and radio, has been awarded an honorary degree by UWE Bristol.
Media Relations Team,
                                                        21 July 2025
The university will celebrate nearly 6,000 graduates at ceremonies running over the next two weeks (21-31 July) at the Bristol Beacon.
Media Relations Team,
                                                        17 July 2025
New study suggests a deeper understanding of social change could help close the gap between challenges and actions, especially on issues like climate change.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/events/search-results:
I am a:
Showing 1 - 12 of 259 results
Sunday 31 August
Outside the Eye Clinic , Glenside Campus
Free ice cream for students!
Tuesday 02 September
Online
Join our live webinar and meet programme leaders from our our MSc International Business Management.
Wednesday 03 September
Join our live webinar and meet programme leaders from our MSc Business Management.
Thursday 04 September
Spike Island, City Campus
A celebration of advanced creative practice from MA Fine Art, MA Graphic Arts and MA Multi-Disciplinary Printmaking.
Saturday 06 September
Join our School of Arts Postgraduate drop in event and meet Programme Leaders from our MA Fine Art courses in Curating, Printmaking and Photography and MA Design Communications courses in Illustration, Graphic Design and Fashion Photography.
Glenside Library, Glenside Campus
Welcome to Glenside, students!
Join us for a tour of your new campus.
Sunday 07 September
Bubble tea and board games bash!
Monday 08 September
Join our live webinar and meet programme leaders from our MSc Applied Wildlife Conservation.
Enterprise Park 1 (EP1), UWE Bristol Frenchay Campus
The Centre for Biomedical Research Conference at UWE Bristol.
MOVE helps you get active in a fun and informal way with a huge variety of weekly sessions on campus and across Bristol.
Search for sessions by location, time and sport on the MOVE timetable.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/students:
You can now register for the next academic year - head to MYUWE to update your personal details and arrange payment of your tuition fees.
A4174 Avon Ring Road improvements include closing the left hand turn onto Coldharbour Lane outside Frenchay Campus which may affect travel time.
Make sure your home address, email address and mobile are up-to-date in MYUWE.
For many of you, the festival season means it's time to let your hair down!
To make sure you stay safe we've pulled together some tips on our blog.
Advice on academic-related issues and what to do if something happens which affects your studies.
Study support and advice for UWE Bristol students including referencing, research, study spaces and more.
Health and wellbeing services for students at the University.
Advice for students on managing your money: including budgeting tools, dealing with debt, part-time work and money saving tips.
From practical career advice and mentoring, to CV writing workshops and tools that help you find out where your talents lie – we’re here to help you bag your dream job.
Real experience counts and there are plenty of opportunities to get it through a range of placements, internships and other work experience opportunities.
Accommodation options, residents guides, applying for accommodation and advice on private accommodation.
Bristol has so much to offer, from festivals in the summer and events in the winter, with great shopping, food and culture all year round.
Getting around our campuses, and information about facilities at our campuses for our students.
Comfortable never changed the world.
That’s why we encourage you to explore your options abroad.
Discover what life’s like studying, teaching or volunteering in a different country.
Prepare for life after university with advice and information about Awards Ceremonies, award certificates, careers services and postgraduate study.
Develop your enteprise skills and get the advice and support needed to start your own business.
IT services available to students.
What to do when you arrive at UWE Bristol as a new student, plus registration information for returning students.
Ways you can feedback as a student and what we do with your feedback.
There is more to your experience here than study.
Get involved in a range of activities, join societies and meet like-minded people.
Read about our Student Futures Manifesto and the ten promises we've made to help you enjoy the UWE Bristol experience you want.
Find out what student events are taking place across the University and how you can take part.
Find out all the latest from UWE Bristol.
You can also join our social channels:
Read previous issues of our weekly student newsletter and School newsletters online:
View previous issues
When you joined the university, you agreed to:
Terms and conditions (PDF)
Open to everyone, our £5.5m state-of-the-art complex provides you with fantastic facilities, activities and classes.
Join now with no contract or joining fee.
Develop yourself as an artist or try something new.
Find out all about volunteering for staff and students at UWE Bristol.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/about/website/login:
Select one of the UWE Bristol student or staff login options below:
Log in to MYUWE for news and events, your timetable, personal details, marks and coursework submissions, and links to support and other UWE Bristol systems.
Access your UWE Bristol library account.
If you have applied to study at the University and received a username and password for your UWE Welcome website, you can log in to check for new messages and view the status of your application.
If you have applied for a Health or Education CPD module, you can log in to check the status of your application, upload documents and apply for further modules.
Remote access to the UWE Bristol network for students.
For 12 months after leaving UWE Bristol, you can access your UWE Bristol email through Office 365.
Log in with your UWE Bristol email address and password.
Access your staff email account from outside UWE Bristol.
Access the staff intranet from outside of UWE Bristol.
UWE Bristol staff, please refer to working from home using eXternal Access (Intranet access only).
If you need help accessing Employee Self-Service (ESS) for the first time or setting up verification methods, please see our ESS access guidance .
A guide to your UWE Bristol username, email, passwords, MFA and other accounts available as part of your studies.
Information around your access to IT Service provisions for graduating students and students returning to a new course.
How to connect to the free campus wifi (eduroam).

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/courses:
Discover UWE Bristol's first-class learning environment, vibrant student life, inspiring campuses and gold-standard teaching.
Experience led learning opportunities designed to help you achieve your real-world career goals.
Our international student guide for everything you need to know about studying at UWE Bristol.
Information on tuition fees for new and returning students at UWE Bristol and University Centre Hartpury including:
Whether you are a new or returning student, there are a variety of funding options available to help finance your studies .
Applying to university can be a daunting prospect but you don't need to worry.
Let us guide you through the process of applying to UWE Bristol including some useful FAQs.
We offer an outstanding range of courses across multiple disciplines.
Higher and degree apprenticeships combine on-the-job training with study for a higher level qualification.
Come and see us at our next Open Day and meet our staff and students
Take a personalised virtual tour and experience what a typical day could look like here for you.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/courses/online-study:
This MSc equips professionals from all backgrounds with the skills to manage teams, drive transformation, and shape the future of healthcare.
Develop a deep knowledge of sustainable theory and frameworks, preparing you to implement sustainable practices and drive change across diverse industries.
Develop expertise in risk management from corporate governance to financial and operational risk, preparing you for leadership on this conversion course.
Whether you’re from a law or non-law background, study our flexible LLM International Commercial Law online and gain a master’s degree wherever you are.
Online students can attend graduation in person.
See highlights from our last UWE Bristol graduation ceremony at Bristol Cathedral before graduations move to Bristol Beacon in 2024.
Information for international students, including English language requirements and entry requirements for your country.
Don’t let money stand in the way of ambition.
There’s more help available than ever before – see if there's a funding option to suit you.
UWE Bristol online degree courses allow you to study and take assessments completely online with no fixed class schedule.
You’ll get 24/7 access to your online classroom and library and have the chance to join leadership events and student support sessions.
Our online degree courses provide skills and knowledge directly applicable to the workplace.
Engage with like-minded professionals and module leaders, and develop your network.
The move from school or college to university can feel a little overwhelming.
Perhaps for the first time, you’re going to have to take responsibility for many aspects of your life – your education, your wellbeing, your finances.
Although it can seem intimidating at first, there’s so much support available to you to make sure … Continue reading "Switching your mindset"
If you’re feeling nervous about budgeting while you’re at uni – don’t panic!
Here are some simple things you can do to save money while still making the most of everything that UWE Bristol has to offer.
1.
Start with a budget A basic budget can help you figure out where your money is going … Continue reading "Practical tips for saving money as a student"
We know it can feel overwhelming having to do so many different things to get ready for your new life at uni.
Getting your laptop sorted probably sounds like one of the most boring items on your to-do list, but you don’t want to be the one chatting to the IT helpdesk while everyone else … Continue reading "Be prepared: IT checklist"
Ping!….
Ping!…..
Ping, ping, ping!
An overflowing inbox, with new emails coming in faster than you can delete the old ones, can feel like a lot.
We get it.
And we know you don’t want to be inundated with irrelevant information or unnecessary updates.
Which is why we’re working hard to make sure that we … Continue reading "Taking control of your inbox"
If you’ve bagged a place at UWE Bristol (congrats!) then you might already know a bit about our amazing city and all it has to offer.
But if you haven’t had a chance to visit yet – and especially if you’ve found your way to us through clearing – we thought we’d reintroduce Bristol and … Continue reading "10 reasons you’re gonna love Bristol"
What do you think the University’s policy is towards drugs and alcohol?
Do you know what harm reduction means in relation to drugs and alcohol?
And would you know where to go for support if you wanted to know how a certain substance might affect you, or if you wanted to make a change?
These … Continue reading "Do you know what harm reduction means?"
Join the Team!
When it comes to online learning on your course, most of you will be using a mixture of MS Teams and Blackboard, and it will be up to your teaching staff to decide what works best for your particular programme.
You’ll have programme and module pages on Blackboard, but you may be … Continue reading "Navigating MS Teams"
We spoke to Elizabeth Ellis, a Psychology with Criminology student to find out how the Student Experience Coaches helped with her degree.
What brought you to coaching?
I was struggling with multiple areas before accessing coaching: What did you do in the coaching session?
During the coaching sessions I have gained: What has been the … Continue reading "Why choose coaching?
We asked you"
Find out more about UWE Bristol's employability figures, league table positions and other important University rankings and metrics.
Get course-specific information directly from the lecturer who'll be teaching you on your postgraduate course.
Find out about postgraduate study at UWE Bristol including courses, funding and open events.
Did you study at UWE Bristol?
Find out about the benefits and services available to alumni.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/courses/sign-up-for-email-updates:
Receive updates about applying to and studying at UWE Bristol.
Register your details to receive helpful tips about applying to and studying at UWE Bristol and hear about upcoming events.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/courses/order-a-prospectus:
We’ve replaced the traditional prospectus with something better – our interactive virtual experience.
Find out about our campuses, facilities, and student life in a way that’s tailored just for you.
We don’t just want to tell you about our fantastic campuses, modern facilities, and vibrant university life.
Or ask you to read about Bristol – the city we proudly call home.
We want to show you.
You can personalise your experience based on your level of study, subject of interest, and whether you’re applying from the UK or internationally.
Experience a ‘day in the life’ of a current student, take accommodation room tours, watch student videos, and immerse yourself in student life at UWE Bristol.
You can even take a virtual stroll around Bristol.
Discover some of its highlights and use our interactive map to explore for yourself.
Ready to be immersed in the life of a UWE Bristol student?
Guardian League Table 2025.
£300 million invested in new facilities.
Find out more about the range of Open Days we have on at UWE Bristol, including tours, details of upcoming applicant events and travel information.
We offer a choice of accommodation, both on and off campus, to fit your lifestyle and needs.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/courses/ask-a-student:
Ask a current student questions about their course, what it's like to study with us, or life in Bristol.
Our current students are on hand to answer all of the queries that might come up when you're thinking about applying to university.
If you're wondering what your course might be like, you can select a student based on what they study and ask them a question.
You can also ask about facilities, societies, Bristol and anything else about life at the University.
Chat with one of our students now and they will get back to you as soon as possible.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/life:
Find out about our city, accommodation, campus and facilities, sports, activities and societies, and ways to get involved in volunteering, music or other things that matter to you.
We also have a Student Life Team and a range of support services to take care of your health and wellbeing and provide help and advice when it comes to fees, funding and other costs.
Our excellent range of accommodation options, both on campus and in the city centre, will help you feel at home from the moment you arrive.
Bristol is a city that’s famous for its rebellious streak, independent thinking, unique style and edgy creativity.
A healthy community is a happy one.
That’s why supporting your health and wellbeing means everything to us.
Be social.
Be curious.
Step outside of your comfort zone and try new things.
You won’t just learn about other people, you’ll learn about yourself.
Find out about your campus and the facilities we've invested in to create the best environment for you to study in.
We've put together some practical information about what to do before and when you arrive.
Managing your money and budgeting your way through university.
The Student Life Team are here to help you feel at home at UWE Bristol.
We want you to get to know your neighbours, discover Bristol and feel part of the community.
Explore our courses and find out everything you need to know about your chosen course from applying to fees and funding.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/study:
There are many aspects to your university experience and we're here to help you make the most of them.
It's never too early to start planning for your career after graduation or find out how to improve your study skills.
You can also find out how to provide feedback for us to use to make the student experience even better.
Whether you want to pursue a career, become an entrepreneur or continue your studies - we'll support you at every step.
From arranging industry placements and opportunities abroad, to giving you specialist mentoring.
We can help you find opportunities to gain experience and get paid.
From practical advice to CV writing workshops and tools that help you find out where your talents lie - we're here to help you bag your dream job.
Enterprise is about finding new opportunities, thinking creatively and bringing ideas to life, whether you want to start a business or not.
It's about having the skills you need to get hired.
Our teaching is designed to challenge you and push your limits so it pays to maximise your study skills and make the most of the wealth of study support options that we have for you.
For example, you can:
Please seek help early on if you are struggling so we can support you before your situation gets worse.
If you are unable to meet a deadline or have a problem with an assessment, support processes are available.
Everything you need to know in your final year.
We'll help prepare you for life after university.
UWE Bristol is an international university with an excellent reputation for teaching and learning.
You can study with us through one of our Erasmus+ partners or study abroad exchange partners.
All the key dates from the academic calendar.
Feedback from our students shapes the future of the University.
We provide the latest tech and IT support teams to keep your studies on track.
Easy access to Blackboard, your timetable, university email account, campus maps, events, staff contact details and more.
Everything you need for your life and studies at UWE Bristol.
We've invested £300 million into our modern facilities, creating the most effective and empowering setting for our students and people to discover their potential.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/study/starting-block:
Supporting your transition into and through university.
To help you get settled into university-level education, we’ve developed Starting Block – a series of activities for you to get to know your teaching team and your coursemates.
Being well-prepared and focused at the start of something leads to success.
And that's what Starting Block is set up to do – brace you as you stride forward with your university experience.
Whether that's being prepared for the start of your new university life, getting ready to build on your skills, or looking towards your postgraduate life – starting every year in the best way means you're most likely to succeed.
Everyone’s Starting Block is different – and because it’s different, you need to make sure you’re engaging with Blackboard and your university email.
To access Starting Block, you’ll need to complete your university registration in MYUWE .
We’ll email your username and password to your personal email address after we’ve confirmed your place – from the start of August.
Look for the Registration tab where you can add or confirm your personal details.
You’ll want to choose a suitable laptop or computer for your course.
You can download Office 365 for your computer using AppsAnywhere so you can access them wherever you are – including campus computers.
Your programme team will provide you with an experience that is exciting, meaningful and completely tailored to your course.
They will:
The content is tailored to you, so the content will vary depending on what you’re studying.
You’ll start practising the skills you need to make your year more successful, build relationships with your coursemates and teaching staff, and feel a lasting connection to your programme and the UWE Bristol community.
We'll also make sure you have an understanding of all the digital tools you’ll be using as part of your course.
Hear from Laura, a Wildlife Ecology and Conservation Science student, about her experience of Starting Block.
Familiarise yourself with the digital tools you’ll be using at UWE Bristol, to start confidently and be well-prepared for study.
Digital Learning at UWE Bristol
View our upcoming Starting Block events.
Fri 12 September 2025, 11:00
Outside P Block, Frenchay Campus
Join our friendly Global Buddies - current international students just like you - for a fun and informal tour of UWE Bristol’s Frenchay Campus!
Sat 13 September 2025, 10:00
Global Lounge, 2P4, P Block, Frenchay Campus
New to Bristol and unsure how to get around?
Join us for top transport tips.
Sat 13 September 2025, 10:45
Ka:Fei (blue shipping container), Colston Avenue
The Global Student Support Team are excited to take you on a fabulous sightseeing trip around Bristol!
Sun 14 September 2025, 12:00
The Lower Enagement Space, Union 1, Frenchay Campus
Take a break and hang out at our relaxed drop-in event at The Students’ Union at UWE.
Mon 15 September 2025, 09:00
A morning welcome from the Global Student Support Team to provide you with all the support and guidance you need to help you to settle into student life!
Mon 15 September 2025, 10:00
4X113, X block, Frenchay Campus
Join us to get all the information you need to know as an international student.
Room 2S704, S Block, Frenchay Campus
Join us for an overview on important things you need to be aware of regarding your student visa, working in the UK, and more international student guidance.
Mon 15 September 2025, 12:00
Frenchay Library, Level 2, Frenchay Campus
Specialist practitioners are available in the library to answer your
questions or support you with any issues impacting your studies.
Mon 15 September 2025, 17:30
Student Life Hub, Purdown View, Frenchay Campus
A relaxed games night with food, drinks and good vibes!
Tue 16 September 2025, 12:00
Bower Ashton Library, City Campus at Bower Ashton
The Specialist practitioners are available in the library to answer your questions or support you with any issues impacting your studies.
Specialist practitioners are available in the Library to answer your questions and support you with issues impacting your studies.
Tue 16 September 2025, 17:30
Blackboard is an important part of your learning.
Come along and find out how to access it, what to expect and how to use it for the best results.
"Going into a new year at university can be a nerve-wracking time for anyone and there are lots of ways you can prepare.
As a student going into higher education for the first time last year, I was very apprehensive about the new way of learning and all the new challenges I would face.
Fortunately, we had a Starting Block."
Megan student
Starting Block is a great opportunity to set yourself up for the year ahead and make sure you’re prepared with the skills you will need for university life.
Before Starting Block I felt nervous about the year ahead as well as new aspects of learning I had never had to consider before.
Thankfully Starting Block was a great opportunity to test all of this out, so when it came to the first week of term I felt fully prepared and comfortable.
Often, the way we think determines how we feel.
By understanding your own motivations and taking the time to be self-reflective, you'll be able to take ownership of your wellbeing.
And being able to manage the stresses of everyday life will help you be successful not only during your studies, but also throughout your life.
A series of events and activities to welcome new and returning students back to UWE Bristol.
Things to do in Bristol, location and city life.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/study/student-feedback:
We take student engagement seriously and gather feedback and input from you in several different ways.
We take student engagement very seriously and want our students to be active participants in learning.
We gather student feedback in a number of ways and ask you to engage with us in developing your student experience.
We collect feedback through Student Reps, via your programme and module teams, as well as through national and university-led surveys, such as the Course Survey.
The University then uses this information to address the points you raise.
If you are a current student who is particularly interested in improving the student experience, you have the opportunity to become a Student Representative or a Student Experience Consultant.
If you want to know more about how to get involved as a student or how to get student feedback as a member of staff, email StudentVoice@uwe.ac.uk .
The Student Consultation Panel is made up of students from across the University who volunteer to provide feedback on university projects and initiatives.
The panel has contributed to key improvements in areas such as assessment, library, wellbeing services, communications and induction.
Feedback from the panel has shaped services like the UWE Bristol app, financial support and inclusive assessment strategies.
Sign up to the Student Consultation Panel
Student Reps play a vital role in representing students' academic interests.
The Student Rep system is run in partnership between UWE Bristol and The Students’ Union at UWE.
Each year approximately 1,000 Student Reps are elected from every level of every programme to champion the student voice.
You can find the Student Rep for your programme in MYUWE or on Blackboard.
If you would like to know more about becoming a Student Rep, how to get in touch with the Rep for your course or you want to get more involved in giving feedback, email studentreps@uwe.ac.uk .
Your module teams provide opportunities for you to feedback on modules.
This can vary across modules and may be short surveys, focus groups, drop-ins or more informal class sessions.
The Course Survey is your opportunity to give your views on your course.
The survey is anonymous.
Programme teams will share any actions they will take to enrich your course experience based on the feedback received.
You are also encouraged to give ongoing feedback throughout the year to your Programme Leader and Student Reps.
Universities across the country take part in the National Student Survey (NSS).
This annual independent survey gives final-year students the chance to provide feedback on what it has been like to study at the University.
The Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey (PTES) is the only UK higher education sector-wide survey to gain insight from taught postgraduate students about their learning and teaching experience.
We use the results to continually improve our programmes and the wider student experience.
Postgraduate researchers provide feedback every two years on our supervision, progress monitoring and resources through the Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES).
Our Doctoral Academy uses the results to highlight where we can improve their experience.
If you are having problems accessing a survey relevant to you or have other questions about the surveys and how they are run, please email StudentPartnership@uwe.ac.uk .
You should be able to resolve any issues you have about your experience by the feedback mechanisms explained here.
If you have exhausted these avenues and are still dissatisfied with a UWE Bristol provision or service, you can make a complaint .
Our core purpose, ambition, strengths and  values, including details about our Strategy 2030.
Ways to get in touch with UWE Bristol.
How to get the support you need when you need it.
We have a range of specialist disability support services to help you make the most of your academic potential.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/study/uwe-bristol-app:
Download the UWE Bristol app for quick and easy access
to Blackboard, your timetable, university email
account, campus maps, events, staff contact details and
much more.
Available on Apple and Android .
Download the UWE Bristol app for Apple
Download the UWE Bristol app for Android
If you have any feedback about the app, please send an email with
your comments to feedback@uwe.ac.uk .
Log in to Blackboard.
Access Library Search and help with using library resources and facilities.
Sign in to MYUWE with your UWE Bristol username or email, and password.
Access to all the support and services that are available for current students.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/about:
At UWE Bristol, we're focused on solving future global challenges through outstanding learning, world-leading research and a culture of enterprise.
Employability figures, league table positions and other important University metrics.
Our current vacancies and all the benefits that make UWE Bristol a great place to work.
Advice and directions for travel to UWE Bristol campuses and the city of Bristol.
Find out more about the key people at the University, from the governors, Vice-Chancellor and Directorate to professional service and heads of colleges .
Discover more about the various professional services that meet the key needs of our students and staff at UWE Bristol.
Our colleges, departments and schools are responsible for delivering excellent teaching and conducting world-leading research.
Discover our staff, including contact details.
The UWE Bristol story dating back to our beginnings in 1595.
Facts and figures about our student and staff populations.
View our terms and conditions, accessibility guidance, privacy policy, cookie policy and many other options.
General enquiries and other main contact numbers across the University.
Collaborating with industry, public sector bodies and communities, we’re redefining horizons and challenging conventions to impact lives positively.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/about/ranking-and-reputation:
Gold for outstanding student experience in the 2023 Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF)
UWE Bristol has a strong reputation for graduate employability according to the Graduate Outcome Survey 21/22 (published 2024).
According to the Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2021.
UWE Bristol is the first university to achieve Award with Merit for continuous improvement in the area of mental health and wellbeing.
We’ve achieved 74% for the outcomes of our apprenticeships (Qualification Achievement Rate table 22/23) , placing us in the top 15% of all UK apprenticeship providers.
UWE Bristol earns a national award which celebrates the inspirational sustainability work and projects of UK and Ireland Higher Education institutions.
We are ranked 185th globally for the diversity of our student population in the QS World University Rankings 2024.
UWE Bristol is in the top 50% of universities worldwide for the diversity of our teaching staff.
QS World University Rankings 2024.
We rank in the top 50% of global universities for our international research and collaboration across the sector, in the UK and internationally.
Everything you need to know about undergraduate study at UWE Bristol including courses, accommodation, fees and funding, employability and life at UWE Bristol.
Find essential information to support your job and opportunity search in your industry sector.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/about/staff-profiles:
Search
Whether you know someone or wish to find staff with particular areas of interest or expertise use the keyword search below.
Update your profile
Who's who at UWE Bristol
Contact UWE Bristol
Departments and services
Back to top
University of the West of England Frenchay Campus Coldharbour Lane Bristol BS16 1QY United Kingdom Switchboard: +44 (0)117 9656261 View full contact details
Copyright 2025 © UWE Bristol

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/rise:
At UWE Bristol, our unique multi-disciplined, system-led approach to research, innovation, skills, enterprise and ethical practices drive societal improvements, transforming futures for the better.
Using big data, AI, augmented and virtual reality, business, research and creative thinking, our highly collaborative teams power the future workforce, drive economic growth and prosperity, shape our communities’ health and sustainability, and create a more just and sustainable future for all.
RISE with us.
World-class thinking that solves real world problems.
Not just ideas — solutions that rewrite the rules.
Upskilling today to build tomorrow's workforce.
Enterprise that fuels progress.
Business that drives change.
We’re driving innovation in health and social care education, workforce and technology.
We're working with industry and the public sector to develop skills, talent, and innovation for the future economy.
We collaborate with national policymakers, local authorities, educators and industry to improve public spaces, infrastructure, and communities.
Tackling global challenges by promoting social justice, empowering communities and protecting the environment.
Keep up-to-date with news about our innovative research, Business Services, Degree Apprenticeships, Professional Development, Graduate Talent and Recruitment.
There is no excerpt because this is a protected post.
The Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) between University of the West of England (UWE Bristol) and True to Nature was established to develop a high-performance underwater drone (ROV) called Mako for capturing cinematic footage of fast-moving marine animals like sharks and dolphins.
The project aimed to enhance True to Nature’s innovation capabilities and establish in-house R&D … Continue reading "Knowledge Transfer Partnership Case Study – True to Nature"
Fourteen UWE Bristol academics have been recognised as leading experts in their fields by ScholarGPS, which ranks the most productive and influential researchers globally based on the impact of their published work.
Spanning disciplines including Psychology, Computer Science, Engineering, Linguistics and Biomedical Sciences, the list celebrates both long-term research excellence and recent impact across the … Continue reading "14 UWE Bristol academics named among world’s top scholars by ScholarGPS"
In June 2025, UWE Bristol hosted the UK’s first dedicated research workshop on Ecocide in Global Politics, bringing together early career researchers from across the country to explore this urgent and emerging issue.
The event was convened by Dr Suwita Hani Randhawa, Senior Lecturer in Politics and International Relations, with support from the British Academy … Continue reading "UWE Bristol researcher leads first UK workshop on ecocide in global politics"
As a member of the UK delegation to the State of Para, Dr Tariq Umar, Senior Lecturer from the School of Architecture and Environment (UWE Bristol) visited Brazil to mentor Early Career Researchers (ECRs) on biodiversity and climate resilience.
This visit (from 9 to 13 August 2025) is part of the Eco Brazil project that … Continue reading "Project Eco Brazil: Mentoring Early Career Researchers on biodiversity and climate resilience"
Over three unforgettable weeks in May and June, the 2025 Project Zulu Choir Tour brought energy, rhythm and joy to audiences across the South West and Wales.
Twenty young performers and five teachers from Sipheni Senior Primary School and Sithobelumthetho Primary School in Madadeni Township, South Africa, travelled to the UK to share traditional Zulu … Continue reading "A record-breaking tour: The 2025 Project Zulu Choir visit"
With autumn approaching, it’s the ideal time to invest in professional growth – for yourself or your team – and build valuable new skills.
At UWE Bristol, we’re pleased to be delivering a range of programmes and courses, many of which are heavily subsidised and open to both independent learners and employees of small and … Continue reading "Funded Skills Programmes and Professional Development courses starting at UWE Bristol in Autumn 2025"
How can universities better embed health and wellbeing into everything they do – from teaching and research, to student experience and policy?
That was the focus of the 2025 International Health Promoting Campuses (IHPC) Conference, hosted by the University of Limerick, where UWE Bristol helped shape a major new global framework.
Associate Professor Dr Liz … Continue reading "UWE helps shape international Framework for Health Promoting Campuses"
Services we offer to businesses, information for schools and colleges, how you can support UWE Bristol, community engagement and hiring our spaces for an event.
Browse UWE Bristol's portfolio of research areas, expertise, staff and publications.
Postgraduate research at UWE Bristol offers you the opportunity to contribute to our  leading edge research and work alongside our international experts.
Providing opportunities and outstanding spaces for a thriving community of start ups, fast-growth businesses, graduate entrepreneurs and cooperative research.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/rise/research:
World-class thinking that solves real-world problems.
In today’s fast-paced world, research helps us understand and adapt to new developments, make informed decisions, identify new opportunities, and solve challenges.
We're ambitious.
We think big and want to make a positive difference for our city, region and beyond.
Our research is action-orientated and practice based.
Our active, collaborative research community of bold, original thinkers break boundaries, immerse themselves in the now and open the way to new futures.
Its research done well.
Research with the power to transform lives, advance knowledge and support sustainable economic growth.
We are driving innovation in health and social care education, workforce development and technology to create a system that prioritises prevention, community-based care, and digital transformation.
We’re harnessing creativity and technology to power economic growth, working in partnership with industry and the public sector to develop the skills, talent, and innovation needed for the future economy.
We collaborate with national policymakers, local authorities, educators, and industry to improve public spaces, infrastructure, and communities.
We are tackling global challenges by promoting social justice, empowering communities and protecting the environment.
Through collaboration, we’re helping make Britain a Clean Energy Superpower.
Opportunities and outstanding spaces for a thriving community of start-ups, fast-growth businesses, graduate entrepreneurs and cooperative research in the high-tech, robotics, digital and health-tech sectors.
Our work spans the boundaries of science and creativity.
You can read about our research by exploring our research case studies.
How our work is creating and delivering a healthy and sustainable food system that’s accessible to all - REE blog.
Businesses across Europe have been able to improve how they work, save on costs and increase revenue by using innovative computer software designed by UWE Bristol.
We are helping authorities worldwide to tackle the ever-evolving problem of financial crime.
Drawing on our expertise, we are turning the tables on fraudsters by empowering police forces to intervene.
We are working to preserve creative freedom after the democratisation of machine learning has opened up a world of possibilities, and ethical conundrums, for the film and TV industry.
UWE Bristol scientists' pioneering work has improved hospital treatments for potentially fatal conditions such as tuberculosis and sepsis.
In an era of fake news and disposable media, visual reportage has an increasingly influential role to play, as proven by an award-winning UWE Bristol artist.
Our ambitious 2030 strategy is focused on transforming futures.
From powering the future workforce and helping local economies thrive, to shaping the health and sustainability of our communities and creating solutions to solve global challenges.
Not just ideas – solutions that rewrite the rules.
Upskilling today to build tomorrow’s workforce.
Businesses that drives change.
The Integrated Care Academy (ICA) at UWE Bristol is an exciting new partnership created with our NHS and commercial, charity and independent sector partners across local and regional health and social care systems.
Arnolfini is one of the sites that makes up City Campus at UWE Bristol and one of Europe's leading centre for the contemporary arts, presenting innovative, experimental work in the visual arts.
The Health Tech Hub focuses on advancing technology that enables people to live independently and manage their own health and well-being, thereby ensuring they spend the least possible time in hospital.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/rise/innovation:
Innovation is central to meeting the world’s challenges - to build a healthier, greener, fairer and more resilient society.
We’re passionate about taking ideas into solutions that positively impact people, communities and our planet.
Collaborating with industry, public sector bodies and communities, we’re redefining horizons, challenging convention and shaping working practices to make a positive impact, enrich lives, drive economic growth in our region and transform the future for everyone.
Our work incorporates multiple sectors and challenges.
You can read about our groundbreaking innovations by exploring the following Innovation case studies.
UWE Bristol has been selected as part of a pioneering initiative to support the growth of self-funded spinouts in the creative and social sciences sectors - REE blog.
A UWE Bristol researcher has developed a digital game that strengthens community ties to place using the what3words app - REE blog.
Our project with Milbotix Ltd is advancing the integration of kinematic and kinetic sensors for holistic healthcare monitoring in ageing adults -  REE blog.
From helping to build public trust in Artificial Intelligence (AI), to ensuring ethics are factored into the digital health technologies of the future, UWE Bristol is leading the charge for ethical robots.
We are leading the way in the design of assistive robots, understanding how people and robots can interact intuitively, safely and effectively; and designing and testing robots that will be acceptable and enjoyable to use.
We are improving agricultural standards while saving costs and reducing environmental damage, with the introduction of automated farming systems for monitoring cattle welfare and crop production.
Our researchers are helping to steer the emerging field of virtual reality and the critical questions asked around power, responsibility and creative potential in a positive direction.
A system developed at UWE Bristol to measure the growth rate of microbes has been adopted by companies for healthcare products.
UWE Bristol's innovative ceramic 3D printing material has helped ceramic tableware companies improve their industrial processes.
'Onto REM' combines cutting edge requirements alongside project and business timelines, shaping the next  generation of aircraft.
UWE Bristol researchers are developing cutting-edge technology called ‘magnetic-biosensors’ to accurately detect biological molecules.
Watershed is part of the City Campus at UWE Bristol.
It is home to the Pervasive Media Studio and UWE Bristol’s Digital Cultures Research Centre.
Bristol Robotics Laboratory (BRL) is a nationally – and internationally – recognised as a centre of excellence for advanced robotics research.
The Bridge Studios at UWE Bristol is a state of the art creative space for physical-meta production.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/rise/skills:
Upskilling today to forge tomorrow's workforce.
Skills are crucial in our rapidly changing world - our role in unlocking the needs of tomorrow whilst fulfilling the needs of today is key to economic growth and future success.
We’re determined to ensure that individuals, regardless of their background or career stage, can acquire the knowledge, and skills needed to adapt to new situations and remain competitive in the job market.
Our programmes are created in partnership with industry and policymakers to ensure we deliver the right skills to shape the roles of the future and empower generations to succeed.
Our focus covers functional skills, self-management skills and special knowledge skills.
You can read about the impact of our skills development by exploring these case studies.
The Green Skills for Jobs and Entrepreneurship programme won the Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Award at the Green Gown Awards.
Read our blog about how we supported the region to upskill through our Skills Pathway Programme.
Schools across the UK have had their minds opened to the subtle ideologies contained in children’s literature, encouraging a more critical perspective.
Research at UWE Bristol has highlighted the importance of front-line managers in their role as people managers, benefitting leading organisations.
We have designed a pioneering mentoring scheme which has attracted the support of more than 400 mentors and mentees along with a number of organisations across the UK's aviation and aerospace industry.
Research at UWE Bristol has stimulated new partnerships between universities, colleges and schools.
Researchers from UWE Bristol collaborated to create a classification scheme to analyse graduate employment.
Affordable programmes to strengthen leadership, drive innovation and advance sustainability.
The fantastic Skills and Simulation Centre at Glenside Campus mimics a real hospital ward enabling you to practice what you learn before going into a real hospital on work placement.
Our business continuing professional development programmes enable professionals and organisations to achieve their goals and exceed their aspirations.
Information for employers about higher and degree apprenticeships, including funding information and the benefits for your business.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/rise/enterprise:
Businesses that ignite change.
In an era of constant change, being able to identify new opportunities, think critically and creatively, be bold and communicate effectively to bring ideas to life is indispensable.
Enterprise is central to what we do - it’s embedded into every course we deliver.
We know that the right skills, funding, business support and environment must be in place to take an idea from incubation and testing to scale-up and growth.
Our Enterprise Zone (UEZ) provides opportunities and outstanding spaces for a thriving community of start-ups, fast-growing businesses and graduate entrepreneurs to bring their ideas to fruition and fuel progress.
Our support covers all areas of entrepreneurship and development.
You can read about our enterprise partners and initiatives by exploring our Innovation case studies.
Three entrepreneurs from our graduate incubator, Launch Space, have been awarded an Innovate UK Unlocking Potential Award - REE blog.
Professor Lars Kunze has been awarded an Enterprise Fellowship by Responsible Ai UK to accelerate the transformation of cutting-edge research into real-world solutions - REE blog.
Inspired by us, dozens of companies, freelancers and cultural organisations have reaped the benefits of collaborative working methods, attracting multi-million pound investments in the process.
We are proud to be part of the South West Creative Technology Network and involved in coming up with creative, sustainable solutions to today’s problems.
Insights from research at UWE Bristol have informed ambitious policies that are fuelling regional economic growth.
University students from working-class backgrounds stand a better chance of accessing academic and job opportunities, after research exposed the inequities holding them back.
A team from UWE Bristol produced a ground-breaking toolkit to reduce costs and improve performance.
Our collaboration with some of the world’s leading musicians is combining artificial intelligence and human motion for a unique take on musical gloves as wearable technology.
Launch Space has worked with hundreds of early-stage tech founders to help make their businesses successful.
Spend up to 12 months developing your business with the support of our in-house incubation team.
Spike Island is part of the City Campus at UWE Bristol.
and is home to a gallery, café and working space for artists, designers and creative businesses.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/business:
Are you a business or employer?
Find out how to drive your innovation and develop your workforce through professional development and student recruitment.
Are you a third sector organisation working in the community?
Find out how we can support and work with you.
Discover more about UWE Bristol’s social value commitments and opportunities.
Are you looking to start or grow a business?
Find out about the support we offer to new and high growth businesses.
Discover more about our University Enterprise Zone.
We work closely with many partner schools and colleges in our region.
Find out how we can support you through HE exhibitions and careers fairs or book a visit at one of our campuses.
Recruit skilled, work-ready student interns and graduates.
Find out about our Higher and Degree Apprenticeships.
Gain access to funding and work with our academic experts and student consultants to drive innovation in your business.
Build skills in your workforce and access professional development through our range of short courses, accredited programmes and bootcamps.
If you're planning an event, find flexible space with quality facilities and practical support to match.
Access specialised equipment ranging from diagnostic technology to industrial machinery.
See how you can make a difference to our next generation of UWE Bristol students by donating to scholarships, prizes and funds.
The latest news stories from across UWE Bristol.
Discover how research at UWE Bristol is making a real impact.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/business/business-enquiries:
UWE Bristol welcomes collaboration and the opportunity to talk with businesses to identify the best ways of accessing the expertise and opportunities within the University.
Whether you’re a business or a not-for-profit, a charity or a public sector body, we’re here to help you connect with our team and to access the support you need to transform your business.
For general business enquiries, please contact us on:
Tel: +44 (0)117 32 81043 Email: uwebusiness@uwe.ac.uk
Talk to our expert advisers to access a wide range of recruitment services and expertise.
Whether you are looking to hire an intern or have a graduate vacancy to promote, we are here to help.
For all enquiries or to advertise a vacancy, please email us at careers@uwe.ac.uk .
If you wish to apply for a course, can’t find what you’re looking for or have questions about professional and short course study, please contact our Professional Development team for more information at pd@uwe.ac.uk .
The Placement team is available to provide support to employers and students throughout the placement.
Should you have any questions or concerns about recruiting a student or any aspect of the placement schedule, please do not hesitate to contact us at placements@uwe.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/business/academic-partnerships:
UWE Bristol has established a number of academic partnerships both in the UK and overseas.
The term academic partnership encompasses activities such as collaborative provision, credit recognition, student exchange and any other teaching and learning activities conducted in collaboration with external institutions and organisations.
Building on our successful experience to date, we continue to develop collaborative provision in line with our strategic priorities.
Dedicated policies and supporting mechanisms have been put in place to facilitate the development and maintenance of partnerships and to ensure that the quality of student experience and the standards of our awards are maintained across all academic partnerships.
Below are four downloadable documents outlining our academic partnership process:
Academic Partnerships intranet guidance (staff login required) is an internal platform for sharing information and logging activities related to partnership work.
The Partnerships Quality Team is available to provide guidance and support for UWE Bristol and partner staff on the internal processes for initiating, developing, reviewing and maintaining academic partnerships.
You can contact the Partnerships Quality Team at pqt@uwe.ac.uk .
In addition, there is a Partnerships Operations Team that looks after programmes and students at our International partner institutions.
For enquiries relating to partnership student and programme administration, please email Partnerships.Sat@uwe.ac.uk .
UWE Bristol Strategy 2030 sets out an overarching strategic approach to partnerships.
Our academic regulations describe governance arrangements and procedures for safeguarding academic standards and the quality of learning opportunities provided in collaboration with other organisations.
Enhancing the academic experience of every UWE Bristol student and playing a pivotal role in establishing the shape and future direction of the University.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/research:
We're breaking research boundaries and changing the world.
We think big and want to make a positive difference to our planet.
We transform futures through our actions and practice with a focus on solving real world challenges.
Our world-leading research centres and groups are working to make a real difference in society.
Find out how we’re leading the way.
Develop your ideas and skills with leading edge researchers at our Doctoral Academy.
RISE
Our 2030 Research Strategy is growing world-leading research with real-world impact, prioritising challenge-based research, driving enterprise and enhancing the student experience.
Read about our governance and policies we have in place to maintain the integrity and ethical standards of our research.
Our community of inspiring research staff are the key to our success.
Find out how we support and develop our research community.
UWE Bristol was successful in receiving funding from the Impact Accelerators Account (IAA) awards.
Find out how more about this funding and who to contact.
If you have any questions or you would like further information about our research.
Email: res.admin@uwe.ac.uk Telephone: +44 (0)117 32 86216
Postal address:
Research and External Engagement Northavon House UWE Bristol Coldharbour Lane Bristol BS16 1QY UK.
Follow us on Bluesky @ree-uwe.bsky.social
UWE Bristol's approach to REF 2021 and information on REF 2014 results.
Research support from Library Services at UWE Bristol includes our searchable research and data repositories, managing research data and support for open access publishing.
Find out about the Research and External Engagement (REE) service at UWE Bristol, including the teams and contact details.
Contact us for enquiries about our ground-breaking research, business services, community partnerships and alumni.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/research/our-research-strategy:
Our Transforming Futures Research Strategy 2020-2030 will prioritise and grow internationally excellent and world-leading research with real-world impact, build on our strengths, prioritise challenge-based research, drive innovation and enterprise, and enhance the student experience.
We will focus our research around four major themes:
Our ambition is that, through our research, we will transform the future, advance knowledge, support sustainable economic growth and development, enhance social and cultural development, promote health and wellbeing, equality and diversity, and the quality of built and natural environments.
Read the full Transforming Futures Research Strategy (PDF)
We exist to solve real problems, to create real opportunities and to lead the future.
Find out how.
Our research governance, policies and standards frame the way we manage research to ensure research integrity is achieved.
Contact details to make research enquiries.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/research/research-enquiries:
If you have any questions or you would like further information about research at UWE Bristol, please contact us.
Research@uwe.ac.uk
+44 (0)117 32 86216
Research Business and Innovation Northavon House UWE Bristol Coldharbour Lane Bristol BS16 1QY United Kingdom
Ways to contact the Doctoral Academy, from postgraduate research support to submitting your thesis.
Details of UWE Bristol's continuing commitment to supporting its research community.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/research/research-publications:
Research Repository
All Output Person Project
Outputs
41785
People
1818
Faculties, Schools & Groups
178
Projects
0
Research Outputs
Research Projects
Listening to young children in primary schools: Rights-based recommendations from teachers and children (2025) Presentation / Conference Contribution
Embedding children's participative rights in pedagogical practice in lower primary classrooms in Wales: Welsh Government, Lunch and Learn Session (2025) Presentation / Conference Contribution
Welsh Government lunch and learn presentation (2024) Presentation / Conference Contribution
COBRA-PPM: A Causal Bayesian Reasoning Architecture Using Probabilistic Programming for Robot Manipulation Under Uncertainty (2025) Presentation / Conference Contribution
Manipulation tasks require robots to reason about cause and effect when interacting with objects.
Yet, many data-driven approaches lack causal semantics and thus only consider correlations.
We introduce COBRA-PPM, a novel causal Bayesian reasoning ar...
Read More about COBRA-PPM: A Causal Bayesian Reasoning Architecture Using Probabilistic Programming for Robot Manipulation Under Uncertainty.
A Scottish survey exploring diagnostic radiography students’ attitudes towards a career in nuclear medicine (2025) Journal Article
Introduction The career aspirations of undergraduate radiography students have previously been surveyed but there is little in the literature exploring nuclear medicine as a career specialism.
This study aimed to explore the relationship between cli...
Read More about A Scottish survey exploring diagnostic radiography students’ attitudes towards a career in nuclear medicine.
UWE Bristol Research Repository Powered by Worktribe | Accessibility
About UWE Bristol Research Repository
Administrator e-mail: repository@uwe.ac.uk
This application uses the following open-source libraries:
Apache License Version 2.0 ( http://www.apache.org/licenses/ )
SIL OFL 1.1 ( http://scripts.sil.org/OFL )
MIT License ( http://opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.html )
CC BY 3.0 ( http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/ )
Powered by Worktribe © 2025
Advanced Search
all of any of

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/alumni:
Update now
Share your latest contact details so we can keep you informed about news, updates and stories.
Highlights for our global alumni network.
Five alumni celebrate fifty years of friendship.
They all met studying HND Business Studies (International Marketing and Languages) from 1974-1976 at Bristol Polytechnic.
To mark the golden anniversary, they revisited Frenchay Campus to reminisce and explore.
Graduates will be contacted to take part in the survey 15 months after completing their course.
Make sure we have your correct contact details so your experience can influence higher education.
We’re delighted to offer our alumni a tuition fee discount on many of our full-time and part-time taught postgraduate courses (some exclusions apply).
As well as belonging to an active network of thousands of professionals, alumni can access many more benefits and support after graduating.
Our dedicated alumni team are here to help.
As a UWE Bristol graduate you can benefit from a range of services and offers, including postgraduate course discounts.
Support to help graduates find a new job, progress in their role, change career, or launch a new business.
Help with certificate replacements, certified true copies of award certificates and duplicate certificates of credit (transcripts).
Access our online directory and mentoring site for students and alumni.
A quarterly email for UWE Bristol graduates, bringing our best news, stories and memories direct to your inbox.
Find out how to get yours and browse the archive.
Meet some of your pioneering and talented alumni community, learn about what's happening on our campuses and find out how you can get more involved.
Make sure we have the right contact details for you.
You can also choose to receive all our latest offers and fundraising information.
We'd love to hear from you.
Tell us about your memories, your journey, and what you're doing now.
View contact details for the Alumni Team at UWE Bristol.
UWE Bristol graduates are doing exceptional work and inspiring people all around the world.
Organising a reunion is a great way to reconnect with old friends and make new professional contacts.
Follow us for regular updates on our latest news and to network with fellow alumni.
Discover UWE Bristol events open to alumni to help you stay connected.
Whether you’re an individual or an organisation, find out how you can support the UWE Bristol Fund.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/alumni/reunions:
Organising your own reunion is a great opportunity to reconnect with old friends, make new professional contacts or celebrate a milestone anniversary.
We can contact fellow alumni.
We hold a database of our alumni who have kept in touch.
Due to the Data Protection Act, we are unable to share contact details, but we can contact people on your behalf.
We can also:
If you’d just like to contact people from University who you have lost contact with, we may be able to help you find your friends.
You may wish to hold your reunion on an anniversary or have it on the same day as a special local event (such as a festival or sports match).
You will also need to consider term dates and public holidays, as well as how much notice your guests will need.
Please be aware of the University's term dates , including Open Days , particularly if you want to meet on campus or have a campus tour.
Who would you like to invite to your reunion?
Is this a course group?
Or it could be a club/halls reunion?
Do you want to invite partners?
Once this is decided, contact us and we can advise on how many of your target group we may be able to contact.
We can search for alumni using the following criteria:
We suggest that you start planning six months to a year in advance of your event.
Take a look at our example reunion event timeline and checklist .
We would love it if you chose to have your reunion on campus.
The benefits of having the reunion on campus means that we can provide you with free or discounted venues, as well as providing University tours to show you our new campus developments.
If you’d like to have your event off-campus, some recommended venues include:
The sooner you let people know the date the more likely they are to attend.
Get the date in people’s diaries as soon as you can by sending out a ‘save the date’ invite.
Your ‘save the date’ should include your contact details so you can manage any replies.
Please note: the Alumni Team are unable to subsidise or provide funds for reunion events.
A camera is a must for any reunion!
You can make use of our talented students and enlist the help of our student photography society .
Please note that the cost will vary depending on the photographer.
Don’t forget to get a group photo and to get permission from attendees for photos to be shared.
Entertainment may or may not be right depending on the type of event you choose.
If you want an academic to speak, for example, we can help with putting you in contact.
Current student societies may also be able to perform at your event.
It might be nice to get UWE Bristol promotional merchandise for all attendees of your reunion.
Look at the online shop run by The Students' Union at UWE for ideas.
Bristol has plenty of great hotels and places to stay, but if you’re unsure of where to start you can view our recommended accommodation options .
It is important that you thank your guests for coming to the event – we can help circulate a thank you email or letter on your behalf.
Share your photos on social media, tagging UWE Bristol.
You can also send your photos to us alumni@uwe.ac.uk we'd love to see them!
We’d love to hear feedback about your experience from you and your guests, so please contact us .
This will help us to improve the reunion service.
How to stay connected and update your details if you're a UWE Bristol alum.
The Alumni Team can help you to trace a long-lost friend, or just make contact with someone whose address you may have lost.
Meet outstanding people who all studied at UWE Bristol.
Alumni Connect is our new online site linking students and alumni around the world.
Find industry experts, professional contacts, local connections and old friends.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/alumni/alumni-edit:
Quarterly email for UWE Bristol graduates, bringing the best of our stories, news and memories straight to your inbox.
In March we celebrated Women’s History Month.
We didn't want you to miss out, so here's a chance to catch up.
Not short of strong women, we chose three fantastic female alumni who are standing out with their strength, determination and curiosity.
Meet our Burmese Python fighting for women, Mia Collins our BBC Apprentice and Nicol our Space Exploration Scientist.
Read May's Alumni Edit
Share your up-to-date contact details with us and we’ll email you the latest edition of Alumni Edit every quarter.
Catch up on previous editions of Alumni Edit.
We celebrate a 50-year reunion, 50 years of drama and four incredible alumni in the King's New Year Honours list.
Countdown's Carol Vorderman joins our community and we share a new virtual 360° Bristol tour.
Visit campus virtually in 360 degrees and reminisce about student music and drama with the vintage programmes we found.
Hear about our internationally recognised Olympic silver medal winning student and an awe-inspiring astro-photographer.
We welcomed nine new honorary graduates and celebrated our first ever graduations at Bristol Beacon.
Plus, an immersive reality adventure with alumni and new award-winning Passivhaus student accommodation.
Artist and alum Mr Doodle exhibits in Bath, in Bristol alumni speak candidly about the Colston statue at M Shed, and alumni explore space and deep under the ocean.
We bid farewell to Bristol Cathedral graduations, share memories of the late Honorary Graduate Benjamin Zephaniah and meet artist and alum Valda Jackson MBE.
Exciting news of our outstanding student experience, plus the chance to take a campus tour to see how things look now and share your old photos.
Our first ever Alumni Edit includes summery feel-good news to share, from knighthoods and unicorns to carnival and an alum centenarian!
Meet some pioneering alumni from UWE Bristol's community, learn about what's happening on campus and find out how to get more involved.
We know our alumni go on to do great things.
If you have a great story to tell, we'd love to hear it.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/alumni/outstanding-alumni:
Meet our outstanding alumni and share your success stories with us.
From a bare-knuckle boxing world champion to a celebrity broadcaster and a space exploration scientist, our alumni do amazing things.
Hear about their journey to the job they love, and the challenges they’ve overcome.
Meet Nicola Barke, also known as the Burmese Python, and the first female ever to compete in Burmese bare-knuckle boxing.
She’s now ranked number two in the world.
Nicola also works for HSBC and mentors women leaders.
Nicola studied BSc(Hons) Biomedical Sciences, 2014.
Meet Angellica Bell, a BAFTA nominated presenter, who appears regularly on mainstream television and radio in the UK.
She began her career as the face of Children’s BBC (CBBC) before presenting on programmes such as The One Show (BBC) and The Martin Lewis Money Show (ITV).
Angellica studied BA(Hons) Politics, 1996.
Meet Nicol Caplin, an astrobiologist working for the European Space Agency.
Her biology experiments are destined for the International Space Station, lunar orbit and the lunar surface.
Nicol studied BSc(Hons) Environmental Science, 2014,  and a PhD in Plant Radioecology, 2019.
"When I was a student I could only dream about winning such an award.
It is a testament to the forward thinking education I received at UWE Bristol."
Ravi Naik LLB(Hons), Human Rights Lawyer of the Year 2018
Ravi is Legal Director of AWO, a digital rights firm.
Ravi studied LLB(Hons) at UWE Bristol, graduating in 2006.
He is best known for his work on cases that protect individuals' data rights, representing clients in some of the world’s most high profile and controversial cases.
Notably, Ravi acts for the claimants in the lead claims against Cambridge Analytica for political profiling, as well as numerous other precedent setting data rights cases.
"It seems unbelievable that I made something which could really help people, even if it is to a small extent.
It's a great feeling for me - and the patients are so happy somebody is thinking of them."
Neha Chaudhry MSc Marketing and BSc(Hons) Product Design Technology, founder of Walk to Beat, a ‘smart’ walking stick for people with Parkinson’s disease.
Neha studied MSc Marketing and BSc(Hons) Product Design Technology .
Neha Chaudhry is the founder of Walk to Beat , a ‘smart’ walking stick for people with Parkinson’s disease.
Neha was inspired to help people after witnessing her late grandad struggle with the condition.
The stick uses circuitry concealed in its handle to monitor walking patterns and provides vibrations that help overcome the freezing and falls commonly experienced by people living with Parkinson's.
It has attracted the attention of the NHS and Parkinson’s UK charity.
Neha first researched the stick during her final year degree project.
She was awarded a grant to develop the idea from the UWE Bristol Fund (which raises money through donations from alumni, staff and students).
This cash boost, along with other investments and partnerships, has enabled her to take the idea from concept to reality.
"I feel a great pride in being a qualified nurse, and consider my time at UWE Bristol to have been a defining period in my life.
I have many happy memories from my time there."
Nathan Filer BSc(Hons) Mental Health Nursing, Costa Book prize-winning Author
Nathan studied BSc(Hons) Mental Health Nursing .
Nathan is a writer, university lecturer and broadcaster with a special interest in mental health.
He studied Mental Health Nursing at UWE Bristol.
His debut novel The Shock of the Fall (2013) was written whilst Nathan was working as a staff nurse on an acute psychiatric ward at Southmead Hospital and in mental health research.
The book was an extraordinary success.
An intimate portrait of a man’s descent into mental illness, the book won multiple awards, was a Sunday Times bestseller and has been translated into thirty languages.
Nathan has since published The Heartland: Finding and Losing Schizophrenia , also published as This Book Will Change Your Mind About Mental Health (2019), which was a Sunday Times Book of the Year.
The charity Rethink Mental Illness named it as one of their best books of the decade.
Alongside academic and research roles, he writes widely on mental health.
This includes essays and articles for Guardian and New York Times, a podcast series, a radio documentary and he’s a regular speaker on radio including BBC Radio 2 Book Club, BBC Radio 3’s Free Thinking and BBC Radio 4’s Open Book , Front Row, All in the Mind.
In 2015, UWE Bristol awarded Nathan with an Honorary Master of Letters in recognition of his role in raising awareness through literature and his commitment to mental healthcare.
UWE Bristol Alumni – share your success story with us .
We’d love to hear about your career journey, whether it was a straight path, or with ups and downs or turnarounds.
Help us inspire our staff, students and fellow alumni.
Read more stories about our talented and inspiring alumni.
We couldn’t be prouder.
Alumni Connect is our online site linking students and alumni around the world.
Details of how to contact the UWE Bristol alumni team.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/alumni/share-your-success:
We know our alumni go on to do great things, and we’d love to hear your story.
Whether you’ve landed your dream job, conducted groundbreaking research, broken a world record, or embarked on an unusual adventure, your story could inspire our students and fellow alumni.
We share your stories on social media, through online case studies, videos, quotes and profiles, within colleges, on campus and in emails and news stories.
Your story could even lead to an invaluable opportunity for a current student such as mentoring or a placement.
With so many alumni to be proud of, we cannot promise to publish everyone’s story, but we are always interested to hear more about what our alumni are up to.
Please submit your story using the form below.
Find out more about discounts, benefits and support available to UWE Bristol alumni, including postgraduate courses.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/news:
Media Relations Team
26 August 2025
22 August 2025
Tracey John, Director of Research and External Engagement, reflects on the impact of Future Space and its role as a launchpad for cutting-edge companies shaping the future of how we live and work.
20 August 2025
19 August 2025
30 July 2025
29 July 2025
28 July 2025
22 July 2025
21 July 2025
17 July 2025
The Media Relations team is the first point of contact for journalists and broadcasters seeking information about UWE Bristol.
Media contacts are invited to check out the vast range of subjects where UWE Bristol can offer up expert commentary.
Research, business, student experience, science and other blogs about UWE Bristol life
Details about the key people at UWE Bristol, from the governors and Vice-Chancellor's Executive to professional service and college heads.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/news/student-newsletter:
Our weekly student newsletter keeps students updated on key information and events across the University.
If you're a member of staff and would like to submit an article for consideration, please visit the newsletter guide available on the intranet.
No newsletters are currently available.
Please check back soon for updates.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/news/media-enquiries:
The UWE Bristol Media Relations team is the first point of contact for journalists and broadcasters seeking information about UWE Bristol.
This includes requests for expertise, enquiries relating to news releases and requests for commentary on UWE Bristol and Higher Education issues.
Media enquiries are the top priority and will be dealt with swiftly.
Email: pressoffice@uwe.ac.uk Tel: +44 (0)117 32 82208
For enquiries related to the College of Business and Law: Bethan Jones – Bethan17.Jones@uwe.ac.uk
For enquiries related to the College of Arts, Technology and Environment: Kate Rutsch – Kate.Rutsch@uwe.ac.uk
For enquiries related to the College of Health, Science and Society: Marc Rath – Marc2.Rath@uwe.ac.uk
Jayne Andrews – Jayne.Andrews@uwe.ac.uk (Team Administration)
For out of hours and urgent media enquiries, please call the University's East Reception on +44 (0)117 32 82552 and a member of staff will contact an on duty press officer.
If you would like to receive UWE Bristol news releases and the weekly news coverage summary, please email pressoffice@uwe.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/news/blogs:
Blogs home
Finding my tribe at UWE Bristol UWE Bristol student, Sadie, tells how coming to UWE Bristol was life changing and gave them the confidence to become president of the one of the biggest societies on campus.
Student views blog
Research and External Engagement 26 August 2025
Centre for Sustainable Planning and Environments blog 19 August 2025
Research and External Engagement 19 August 2025
A-Z index of blogs
Copyright 2021 © UWE Bristol

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/events:
We can't wait to meet you!
We have lots of welcome events and activities planned to help you settle in to UWE Bristol.
What you need to know about your UWE Bristol graduation, including booking your place, guest tickets, robe hire and accessibility.
Hear unique perspectives and insights from change makers, activists, entrepreneurs, and people who have achieved amazing things in Bristol and beyond.
Our Inspire:Me lecture series gets you thinking bigger towards a future that is yours to create.
Hear from inspirational speakers across multiple disciplines who went on to accomplish even more.
Search or browse our events listing.
Staff and students can submit an event for inclusion on our events diary by submitting our online form.
Events must be connected to the University.
We may have official photographer/s and/or camera person/s at our events.
Anyone organising an event that involves a speaker or speakers to be hosted by UWE Bristol must ensure that the External Speaker policy and procedure are followed.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/events/welcome-events:
A huge part of university life is meeting new people and making connections.
To help you do this, there are a huge range of events and activities you can get involved with, whether you’re the life of the party or you prefer something more low key.
This is your chance to shape your experience to suit you, so take a look at what’s on offer and start building your community.
It all starts here…
View all welcome activities and events
View our upcoming Welcome events.
Sun 31 August 2025, 12:00
Sat 06 September 2025, 16:30
Sun 07 September 2025, 12:00
Sun 07 September 2025, 14:30
Mon 08 September 2025, 14:00
Free museum tour with donuts!
Wed 10 September 2025, 13:00
The Lower Engagement Space, Union 1, Frenchay Campus
Join the Green Team for a relaxed walk through Eastville Park – a hidden gem just a short trip from both Frenchay and Glenside campuses.
Fri 12 September 2025, 10:00
Glenside Hub, Glenside Campus
Start your day with Student Life - enjoy coffee, pastries and the chance to meet new people and make connections over great conversation.
Fri 12 September 2025, 12:30
Explore Frenchay with Student Life!
Purdown View Student Life Hub, Frenchay Campus
Explore Frenchay Campus with the Student Life team.
We love to hear about your experiences at UWE Bristol.
Get involved by using #HelloUWEBristol .
Follow us @UWEBristol on social so you know what's going on across the University and the city.
View our Twitter , Facebook and Instagram .
It's your MOVE!
With over 100 weekly sessions to take part in activate your free student MOVE membership today.
Watch recordings from our Inspire:Me series, which features inspirational speakers from across multiple disciplines.
Our orientation programme offers you the chance to meet other students and helps you settle into your university life at UWE Bristol and life in the UK.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/events/degree-show:
Our annual Degree Show is a highlight of the UWE Bristol calendar – showcasing the best of our creative student talent.
We were thrilled to share work from our graduating students across the College of Arts, Technology and Environment.
An annual highlight for the University and city of Bristol, visitors were invited to discover a new generation of talent.
Our UWE Bristol Degree Show combined exhibitions at Bower Ashton, Arnolfini, Spike Island and Frenchay Campus, accompanied by an extensive digital Showcase .
We celebrated the exceptional work of more than 1,200 graduates from more than 40 courses.
This image shows the fantastic work of one of our graduating students, Poppy Jessop, BA(Hons) Photography.
Our exhibits included a selection of undergraduate and postgraduate work from the following areas:
Our latest digital Showcase features exciting work from our graduating students.
This online platform showcases new talent to a wide audience, helping our graduates to join the future creative workforce.
Jacob Holliday, BA(Hons) Architecture and Planning
Joe Stebbens and Eva Churchill, BA(Hons) Filmmaking
Joshua Glass, BSc(Hons) Games Technology
Sarah-Jane Bonner, MArch Architecture
Daniel Nunez Sardinha, MA Animation
Theo Groothuizen-Kirk, MArch Architecture
Joshua Hitchcock, BA(Hons) Media Production
Rahil Al Jassasi, BSc(Hons) Digital Media
Esme Whitton, BA(Hons) Fashion Textiles
Emily Sneesby, BA(Hons) Illustration
Jacob Champion, BSc(Hons) Product Design Technology
Laura Spanner, BA(Hons) Illustration
Take a look at some of the amazing work from students who exhibited at Showcase 2025.
Join us for a guided, self-guided or personalised virtual tour and get a feel for student life on campus.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/events/black-history-month:
Celebrating Black History Month at UWE Bristol.
At UWE Bristol, our ultimate goal is to foster a society where Black history and experiences are valued, celebrated, and integrated into mainstream consciousness throughout the entire year, promoting a more inclusive and equitable understanding of history.
This year's theme is Reclaiming Narratives.
Its focus is on taking control of narratives, recognising stories, history and heritage through ensuring that Black voices are heard and Black experiences are acknowledged.
The theme encourages all to shine a light on untold stories, heroes and people that have contributed and impacted communities.
October is Black History Month.
However, we recognise that Black history should never be a task or check box for people to complete for one month of the year.
Recognising and learning Black history should be a constant activity.
Through a more inclusive and diverse curriculum, Black history can be celebrated every day and treated as a crucial and essential part of our historical discourse and understanding.
Roger Griffith joins Steve West to discuss Black History Month and UWE Bristol.
This is part one of a series — continue watching the conversation in part two and part three and find related content in our Equality, Diversity and Inclusion playlist .
Inspiring stories of excellence from Black professionals to fields of Science, Health, Education and Society.
This edition of Celebrating Excellence provides an interdisciplinary, cross-university exposition of the brilliance that Black heritage professionals add to UWE Bristol and the Higher Education sector.
If you would like to the see the most recent progression and achievements of staff highlighted in the Celebrating Excellence expositions, please search and view their UWE staff profiles .
You can find out more about Black History Month from:
Equity, diversity and inclusivity underpin the University's core values.
We support a positive experience and learning for all.
Find out more about Black history using our physical and digital library collections.
Information about our structure and strategy, departments, working at the University and how to find us.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/events/lgbt-history-month:
Lesbian Gay Bisexual Transgender
LGBT+ History Month is an opportunity for all of us to learn more about the histories of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people in the UK.
Throughout February, there are a number of events which mark LGBT+ history month at UWE Bristol and in Bristol.
Students and staff at UWE Bristol, and all those who are organising LGBT+ history month, hope that you can attend some of the events and show your support for the progress LGBT+ people have made through history.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/events/study-skills-week:
Investing in your study habits at UWE Bristol.
The Library Learning Hub provides support to help you study, gain confidence in your skills and achieve success in your assignments.
We provide face-to-face and online skills interventions tailored to your curriculum, when you need it.
Study Skills Week will be running 20-24 January 2025.
You can attend a workshop or book a 1:1 appointment and find out exactly how you can invest in study habits to meet your needs.
If you attend a session during Study Skills Week, you will be entered into a daily prize draw.
You can get support from the Library Learning Hub in many ways, including talking to us at library helpdesks , using our online chat service , booking a 1:1 appointment or attending study skills workshops .
You can find out more about Study Skills Week from:
There are a number of workshops and other study support available from the library to help you develop your study skills.
Find out about English language and grammar support for students at UWE Bristol.
College-specific online study support and one-to-one help tailored for your subject.
Tailored online library workbooks for your subject or your college.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/events/filming-and-photography-notice:
UWE Bristol may have official photographer/s and/or camera person/s at our events to produce promotional material/project work/learning materials.
By attending our events your image may be photographed/captured on film and you therefore:
* Images/film may be accessed by users outside of the UK
If you do not wish for your image to be taken, please notify the event staff immediately on arrival at the event.
If you have any questions or comments on our approach to the use of any of the above information please contact the Strategic Communications and Engagement Department:
University of the West of England (UWE Bristol) Frenchay Campus Coldharbour Lane Bristol BS16 1QY UK
Email: marketing@uwe.ac.uk
For enquiries regarding filming and photography at corporate and staff events, please email: events@uwe.ac.uk , ensuring you quote the event in question.
Our privacy terms encompass cookies, information you supply and gather, web metrics, remarketing, call tracking and more.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/events/green-fortnight:
Our annual festival of eco ideas, events and planet-friendly living.
Our annual Green Week events show what UWE Bristol and The Student's Union at UWE are doing to tackle climate change and protect nature and the progress taking place at the University.
Our in-person and online events provide a great opportunity to explore ideas, meet different people and try something new.
There are so many ways for students and staff can get involved in green initiatives at UWE Bristol.
Find out more about sustainability at UWE Bristol.
Green Week 2025 takes place from Monday 3 November to Sunday 10 November 2025.
If you have any ideas about what you would like to see happening or any contributions you would like to make, we'd love to hear from you via email at sustainability@uwe.ac.uk .
In 2024, our Green Week event took place over two weeks from 28 October to 10 November 2024.
Here is some of what happened during Green Fortnight 2024.
Plus pop-up stalls on all campuses on a range of issues.
We suggested that, if staff and students can't make an event, they take a look at some of the up-to-the-minute online resources about planet-friendly living, study and work.
Sustainability is embedded in our culture, research and teaching.
We have already invested heavily in campus improvements and new technology, with plans underway to be carbon neutral by 2030.
Help us make a truly sustainable university a reality.
Information for staff and students to get involved in positive ways, plus handy tips for greener living.
Find out about UWE Bristol's commitment to the circular economy and our initiatives to reduce, reuse and recycle on campus.
Learn about our carbon, energy and water management plans and projects including our new, 900 bed student accommodation built to the highest sustainability standard of Passivhaus.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/events/international-student-events:
There is a real sense of friendship and community among our international students.
Find out how you can be part of our community.
If you have any questions or concerns, please email globalstudents@uwe.ac.uk .
Every Wednesday between 11:00–12:00 (BST) the Global Student Support Team, with staff from across the University, run weekly events celebrating all aspects of culture, including language, music, food, dress and more.
View Global cafe events
Their diary is regularly updated with entertainment events and, if you're involved in a society or sports club , you'll be kept busy with their varied activities.
View events run by The Students' Union at UWE
You can also find out more about a wide range of events and activities by following us on Instagram .
Help and support for international and European students to help you settle in and make the most of the opportunities on offer at UWE Bristol.
English language support for international students, both before and during your studies.
Sports and societies, music, volunteering, work placements, becoming a student ambassador and much more

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/events/careers-and-enterprise-events:
Employer fairs, industry Q&A panels, workshops, competitions and much more.
All careers and enterprise events and fairs are bookable via InfoHub (login required).
We run a range of careers fairs, employer drop-ins and networking events throughout the academic year.
As a student, you can view and book onto career events and fairs via InfoHub (login required).
If you're an employer, you can view and request to attend an Employer fair or event via CareerHub (login required).
Access more career events and fairs run by organisations across the Handshake network.
The Handshake platform is built by students for students.
You’ll find opportunities to attend career events across the country and connect with employers based in the UK and internationally.
Book your place on a career how-to workshop.
Book your place on our business start up course.
Careers and Enterprise team are excited to present a calendar of employers fairs and events for the upcoming academic year.
See the Innovation and enterprise calendar for further details.
The UWE Bristol Careers and Enterprise team cannot accept responsibility for third party content or events hosted on third party platforms.
If you wish to notify us of any issues, please email careers@uwe.ac.uk .
Global opportunities for UWE Bristol students including study, work and volunteer abroad programmes.
The Careers Service is here to support you, whatever stage you’re at in your career journey.
We offer internship programmes and funding opportunities to give you the opportunity to work on your own idea.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/events/international-student-orientation:
A series of social events providing opportunities to meet other international students and introduce you to life at the University.
If you are starting with us in September 2025, you can now download our programme of events for international student orientation.
International student orientation programme 2025 (PDF)
Keep up to date with all that we have to offer on our Instagram .
A photographer may be present during student orientation and some of the images might be used in the future for marketing and promotional activities.
If you do not wish to be photographed, please let us know at the event.
If you have any questions, please email globalstudents@uwe.ac.uk .
View our upcoming International student orientation events.
Wed 17 September 2025, 09:00
Wed 17 September 2025, 10:00
Join us for a valuable and interactive session featuring expert guest speakers.
Thu 18 September 2025, 11:00
Join our Global Buddies for top tips!
Sun 21 September 2025, 10:45
Ka Fei (blue shipping container), City centre
Join the Global Student Support Team exploring Bristol's amazing street art culture.
Tue 23 September 2025, 09:00
Tue 23 September 2025, 10:00
5X108, X block, Frenchay Campus
Tue 23 September 2025, 18:00
Bristol Packet Watershed Pontoon, Bristol Harbour
Join us for a mini cruise down the beautiful River Avon from Bristol harbourside.
See some amazing Bristol sights and meet new people.
Download your guide to an exciting orientation programme for our international students this September.
Starting at a new university in a new country can be daunting but we're here to help you every step of the way.
We're sure you've got lots of questions and you'll find lots of useful information in this guide to help you settle in.
The Global Student Support team want to say hello and welcome you to UWE Bristol.
Frenchay Campus map
Helping you to stay in touch and connected with our international student community.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/events/external-speakers:
Anyone organising an event that involves a speaker or speakers to be hosted by UWE Bristol must ensure that the External Speaker Policy and procedure are followed.
The University has a long and rich history of welcoming visiting
speakers from around the world to its campuses.
The following policies and procedures are for anyone inviting
external speakers into the University, and comply with the
legislation required by all Higher Education Institutions in
England to put into place External Speaker Policies as part of
their implementation of the Prevent
Duty .
UWE Bristol takes its responsibilities to ensure freedom of speech very seriously and the new Policy intends to ensure external speakers can continue to come and contribute to the life of the campus in their different capacities.
Please note: Anyone inviting external speakers
into the University needs to familiarise themselves with the
policies displayed on this page.
Further university policies can be
found on our policies page.
Find out more about booking external speakers.
Download external speakers FAQs (PDF)
When booking university facilities you will be asked
if you are inviting an external speaker.
Where this is the
case, you will need to answer four questions which will enable
an initial risk assessment to take place.
If no risk is highlighted for the event, it will be allowed to
proceed with no further action.
If a risk is highlighted, more information will be sought from
the event organiser.
The objective will be to facilitate the
event but to ensure it can take place
safely.
Measures may be put in place such as
requiring an experienced chair, ensuring controversial views are
challenged, and/or requiring the speaker to provide a script of
their talk in advance.
The University encourages debate and only if the event is deemed
to be unsafe will the decision be taken not to allow the event to
go ahead.
The purpose of this policy is to set in place a governing
framework for events with external speakers to ensure that debate,
challenge and dissent are not only permitted but expected, while
safeguarding our institution and its staff, students and
visitors.
Download our External Speaker policy (PDF)
The following guidelines should be downloaded, you should enter
the details of the speakers visit and then send to the external
speaker alongside UWE Bristol’s Freedom of Speech policy (available
below).
You will note that the guidelines state that in being sent
and receiving them they are accepting they agree to comply with its
content.
Please keep a copy of this on file for your records.
Download the Guidelines for External Speakers (PDF)
Our Freedom of Speech Policy sets out the
University's procedures to be followed by members, students
and employees.
Download our Freedom of Speech Policy (PDF)
For events hosted by the Students' Union at
UWE that involve external speakers, please refer to the Students' Union's External Speakers policy and BookingForm (login required).

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/courses/clearing:
Our Clearing courses are now available for you to explore.
Read about our Clearing accommodation guarantee
We guarantee accommodation for all students joining us through Clearing in 2025.
Once you've got your results you can call our friendly Admissions team to apply directly through Clearing.
Courses can fill up quickly, so contact us as soon as possible and have your qualifications information to hand.
Call us +44 (0)117 32 83333
Apply online
Clearing gives you the perfect opportunity to consider your university options — whether you've changed your mind about your course, your results surprise you or you're just starting to consider university.
Get advice on how to prepare for Clearing and choose the right course for you this September.
How Clearing works on results day
There's a lot to think about when it comes to Clearing, but we've got you covered.
Get the advice you'll need to help you prepare for Clearing and consider the best options for you.
We know where you live is a key consideration.
That's why we guarantee accommodation for all students joining us through Clearing 2025.
Find all the important dates for Clearing.
It's never too early to find out what to do on results day if you think you may use Clearing.
Get advice on calling us and accepting your offer.
Find out about how Clearing works and why it may be the right option for your young person.
Contact our Admissions team to discuss your Clearing options.
There are some critical dates in the Clearing process.
Our timeline takes you through them all so you know what to do and when.
Join a guided campus tour to get a great insight into university life and what it’s like to study here.
Want to get a feel for what it's like to live and study here?
Take a personalised virtual tour.
Bristol is a city bursting with potential.
A thriving hub of social and cultural activity and consistently named as one of the best cities to live, work and study in the UK.
"Clearing didn’t just help me find a course—it helped me discover who I really wanted to be.
I found out medicine wasn’t for me and got a degree that gave me more flexibility."
Nicola BSc(Hons) Biomedical Science
Information for international students studying at UWE Bristol including courses, visas and immigration plus funding and scholarships.
Let us guide you through the process of applying to UWE Bristol, including what to do before you apply, how to apply, and next steps after you've applied.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/courses/open-days:
Open Days are your opportunity to explore our university and get a feel for what it’s like to study here.
Whether you join us in-person at one of our on-campus events or digitally at a virtual event, you’ll have the chance to hear directly from our programme leaders and get the information you need to decide your next steps.
Find out what’s waiting for you at an undergraduate Open Day.
Find out what’s waiting for you.
No problem.
There are lots of ways to discover what's on offer at UWE Bristol.
All you need to know about undergraduate study at UWE Bristol.
Find out more about our postgraduate study at UWE Bristol.
How to apply for courses as an undergraduate, postgraduate and international student.
We offer a choice of accommodation, both on and off-campus, to fit your lifestyle and needs.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/events/undergraduate-on-campus-open-day-9:
Come along to an Open Day to get a real insight into student life at UWE Bristol.
Undergraduate open events
An On Campus Open Day gives you the perfect opportunity to explore what we can offer you.
From our facilities and services to our teaching staff and the students already here experiencing it — get a feel for the fantastic community you could join.
Make sure you check out Bristol while you're here too.
We're biased of course but it's hard to think of a better UK city to live and study in.
But don't take our word for it, come and see for yourself.
Find out more about On Campus Open Days
You must book a place if you want to attend the Open Day.
Book now
Find further information about travel to UWE Bristol campuses and parking on Open Days.
Travel and parking
Frenchay Campus, Coldharbour Lane, Bristol, BS16 1QY Get directions
Blackberry Hill, Bristol, BS16 1DD Get directions
Kennel Lodge Road, Bristol, BS3 2JT Get directions
At UWE Bristol, we’re committed to being inclusive and accessible, which is why we make sure everyone can access our Open Events.
Discover what we’re doing to make sure we meet everyone’s needs to attend our Open Events.
Accessibility at our On Campus Open Days
Sat 22 November 2025, 09:00
All campuses: Frenchay, Glenside and City Campus
Come along to an Open Day at our Frenchay Campus, City Campus and Glenside Campus to get a real insight into student life at UWE Bristol.
Wed 03 December 2025, 16:00
Join our Virtual Open Day to explore student life at UWE Bristol from the comfort of your own home.
A Virtual Open Day is your chance to find out what’s waiting for you at UWE Bristol from the comfort of your own home.
No other event brings our campuses to life quite like an Open Day and we can’t wait to show you around.
Find out what to expect and register.
Attending an Open Day is a great start to your UWE Bristol experience.
Learn what happens and the best steps to take after an Open Day.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/events/undergraduate-on-campus-open-day-11:
Sat 11 October 2025, 09:00

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/courses/find-a-course/courses-a-z:
Showing 1 - 633 of 633 results

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate-study:
Join us as a student and we’ll equip you with the knowledge, guidance and experience you’ll need for the future you want.
You’ll be inspired by a supportive community, build your skills using industry-standard kit and practice hands-on learning.
You’ll also have access to relevant industry placements and opportunities through our strong connections with industry.
All in Bristol, a city known for its creativity and buzzing with potential.
Whether it's a listening ear, accessing medical care or 24/7 crisis support, we've got you covered.
We understand the importance of real-world experiences and you can gain valuable experience and develop your skills here.
Find out more about placements, internships and volunteering.
Get support with those all-important study skills.
From academic writing, referencing, and research skills to time management, and IT.
You’ll have all the tools you’ll need for academic success.
Bristol is the perfect place for you to discover your potential.
A thriving hub of social and cultural activity and consistently named one of the best cities to live, work and study in the UK.
Choosing where to live is as exciting as it is nerve wracking, especially when it’s your first time moving away from home.
We have a range of different options on offer here.
Find out everything you need to know about how to apply for your chosen course, including what happens in the UCAS process.
We support students from all backgrounds and consider individual circumstances when making you an offer to study here.
If you are eligible we may give you a contextual offer.
Find out more.
Find everything you need to know about tuition fees and funding options.
Access our guidance on how to manage your money at university.
Learn more about applying to and studying at UWE Bristol.
Find out how UWE Bristol has transformed our students' lives.
"Coming to UWE Bristol changed my life for the better.
Bristol is a big place — you won’t struggle to find your crowd."
Read Finding my tribe
"This work gave me an opportunity to work with a real client and get feedback like I will when I work in the industry after I graduate."
Read Nathan's blog
"The best part of joining societies is I’m now engaged in multiple different friend circles and have a far more diverse set of experiences than before."
Read Daniel's blog
"As my degree progressed, so did the opportunities on my course.
From working with real copywriting clients and interviewing the local community, to creating our own literary magazine."
Read Rebecca's blog
Find out more about Clearing at UWE Bristol, how it works and the key dates you need to know.
Explore our parents and supporters guide to find out everything you need to know before your child starts undergraduate study.
From key dates to a checklist of practical things to consider.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-study:
Borrow up to £12,471 from Student Finance England to fund your master’s study.
Only pay back a small percentage of what you earn over the repayment threshold.
UWE Bristol offers a range of generous scholarships and discounts, from 20% off postgraduate courses for alumni to our 50% off Vice-Chancellor’s Scholarship.
Time to make it happen?
Here’s everything you need to know to apply for postgraduate courses.
Changing the world?
Do it with us.
We want to meet the brightest and best – work alongside international experts and be supported by dedicated teams.
From short courses and part-time Masters through to immersive research degrees, it's easier than ever to find a postgraduate option that works for you.
Open up your career options with courses designed to fast-track you into all kinds of different professions, regardless of the subject of your first degree.
Get course-specific information directly from the lecturer who’ll be teaching you.
Request an informal one-to-one chat with a lecturer and we’ll arrange a call at a time convenient for you.
Our Virtual Tour offers everything you’d expect from a prospectus, only personalised to your subject area and the specialist spaces that will support your success.
Whether you're just thinking about postgraduate study or are ready to apply for your chosen course, our application guide will help you ensure that you don't miss a thing.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/courses/international-study:
We’re living in a fast-changing world and that’s why it’s important to choose the right university.
Join us as a student and you’ll be part of a supportive community that will equip you with the knowledge, guidance and experience you’ll need to prepare you for the career you want.
All in Bristol — a multicultural and creative city, home to students from more than 167 countries.
A city buzzing with potential and the perfect place to discover yours.
Explore the courses on offer and discover the right one for you.
Select your country for the latest information about entry requirements, funding, scholarships and find education agents in your area.
Paths to entry
Learn more about the different entry requirements for attending UWE Bristol.
Find out more about the language skills you'll need to study at UWE Bristol, and all of the support available.
Did you know we offer a range of scholarships and funding to international students?
Find out more and apply.
Information about how to apply and what to do when you receive an offer.
Support and guidance on applying for your visa and arriving in the UK, to protecting your visa and working in the UK.
Discover Bristol
We're proud of our global network of partnerships with educational institutions.
These partnerships allow you to study a UWE Bristol-awarded degree in a variety of locations around the world.
If you don't meet entry requirements, a pathway course at UWEBIC will provide you with the skills you need to study a degree course at UWE Bristol.
Our Summer School programme is the perfect way to get a taster of university life.
Study at UWE Bristol through one of our study abroad exchange partners.
Things for international students to consider before arriving at UWE Bristol.
Information about our airport transfers for international and EU students visiting UWE Bristol.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/life/discover-bristol:
Bristol is a city that’s famous for its rebellious streak, independent thinking and edgy creativity.
A passion for sustainability runs through its veins, while a warm welcome and open mind awaits.
With the city and spectacular green space close by, you get the best of both worlds.
And the polls prove it:
With a whopping 60 free things to do right on the doorstep, all this doesn’t need to cost the earth either.
"I was lucky enough to have friends already studying in Bristol and each time I came up I fell in love with the city even more!"
Elizabeth BSc(Hons) Nursing
Discover your full potential in the vibrant and creative city of Bristol.
Grand Iftars.
Gromit.
Graffiti.
Bristol has it all.
Top tips to help your money go further.
In Bristol you'll find a festival for everything – and many are free.
Bristol's food and drink scene is delicious, diverse and good value.
Bristol is a city with green spaces and a green mindset.
Discover vintage gems and food markets to suit every taste.
Find out what it’s like to live and study in Bristol from MSc Science Communication alum, Laura.
She shares her favourite spots in the city and tells us what she loves about living here.
Struggling to choose between campus and city life?
Don’t.
UWE Bristol gives you the best of both worlds – campus community plus city buzz.
Explore the city and our campuses.
Bristol is a city located in the South West of England.
Bath is 15 minutes by train from Bristol Temple Meads station.
London is 90 minutes by train or a couple of hours by coach – we even have our own Megabus stop at Frenchay Campus.
Bristol International Airport connects the area to the world.
Some stats and facts about the city.
Bristol’s eventful history spans pioneers, engineers, explorers and adventurers.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/life/accommodation:
We guarantee accommodation for first year undergraduate and postgraduate students joining us in September 2025.
We want you to feel at home from the moment you arrive.
That’s why we offer a choice of accommodation, both on and off campus, to fit your lifestyle and needs.
You can live on our Frenchay Campus, Glenside Campus or in Bristol city centre.
Explore your accommodation options and filter by location, amenities, cost and provider.
Find accommodation
Download your copy of the 2025-26 guide to accommodation at UWE Bristol.
Find out about life on Frenchay Campus and the accommodation available, including our brand new, sustainable Purdown View flats.
Live and study on campus as an allied health, nursing or midwifery student.
Find out more about accommodation at Glenside Campus.
Get a feel for city living and explore our accommodation options off campus, with easy access to Bristol city centre and our City Campus sites.
Find out what you need to do when to secure your accommodation with our application timeline.
You don’t need to visit us in person to explore our different accommodation options.
Get a tour from student Hannah, as they show you around their accommodation on Frenchay Campus.
Find out how to set up your account in the accommodation portal, submit your preferences and accept your offer.
Find out how to secure you accommodation with an advanced rent payment and learn about the different rent instalment plans available to suit you.
We'll guarantee you a place in university-managed accommodation if you register for Clearing Fast Track and apply before 20 August 2025.
We offer adapted rooms and adjustment options for students living in university accommodation.
Learn about our accessible accommodation and how we can meet your needs.
If you’re a current student going into your second year you’ll need to apply for private accommodation.
Find out where and when to start your search.
Check out useful resources for house-sharing and explore your accommodation options beyond your first year.
The Student Life Team is run by students, for students.
Browse helpful articles and advice on living in student accommodation and check out the many events they run to help you get settled in.
Chat to one of our students and get an insight into what it’s like living on campus.
Get advice and guidance on accommodation, whether you live in a UWE-managed property, private halls in the city centre or in the private sector with a landlord or agency.
Get settled in right away to life on campus with the moving in guide and resident's guide – our go-to resources for living in university-managed accommodation.
Everything you need to know about moving into your campus accommodation.
Find out where to collect your keys and what to bring with you.
Key information for students living in campus accommodation, covering everything you need to know including what’s expected of you, collecting post, how to report issues and book repairs.
The UWE Bristol accommodation team are here to help you so please get in contact with us if you would like further assistance.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/life/activities:
Choose to make the most of it.
You won’t just learn about other people, you'll learn about yourself.
We believe that you get more back when you give a little in return.
A fresh new perspective, CV-enhancing experience, confidence and new skills, for starters.
We can even connect you to opportunities related to your potential field.
Join one of The Students' Union's 160 societies and sport clubs, spanning football to pole fitness and Quidditch.
It’s time to open your mind – and your horizons.
With over 40 sports clubs, join Team UWE Bristol to play competitively for your university.
MOVE is a programme jointly run by the Centre for Sport and The Students' Union to get you moving.
Scholarship opportunities, access to professional services and support and use of outstanding facilities.
Most of our facilities are available for hire and we can host a variety of events.
Whether you want to pick up an instrument for the first time or lay down some of your own tracks, checkout the Centre for Music.
We embrace every genre and every single aspect of music.
Become a member and you can:
Membership is completely free for UWE Bristol students.
So come and join our music community of 2000+ students and
do your thing, your way.
Centre for Music
Join one of The Students' Union's 160 societies and sport clubs, spanning football, anime, trading cards and beekeeping to gospel choir, pole fitness and Quidditch.
Make sure you stay connected with Student Life!
You’ll be able to find all of the latest events and activities, access a ton of information about campus facilities and read articles and blogs written by students, just like you.
"I'm a big advocate for people joining societies.
I joined Hub Voice student magazine in my second year.
I was Assistant Editor and I absolutely loved it.
I'm joining the History Society next year as their social media guru."
Beth BA(Hons) Marketing
Practise your faith and spirituality by joining a faith group or visiting one of our prayer rooms or reflective spaces.
Find out more about Peer Assisted Learning (PAL) at UWE Bristol including details and applying to become a PAL Mentor.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/life/campus-and-facilities:
Spread over three campuses, all just a short bus ride from one another, each site offers something unique.
Over the last five years, we've invested £300 million into our modern facilities.
Creating the most effective and empowering setting for our students and people to discover their potential.
All you need to know about our campuses.
Just four miles north of the city centre (15 minutes by Metrobus), Frenchay is where most of our students study and many choose to live too, making the most of the modern facilities.
City Campus is UWE Bristol’s creative and cultural industries campus made up of sites at Bower Ashton, Spike Island, Arnolfini and Watershed.
Glenside Campus is three miles northeast of the centre.
Picturesque and well-equipped, it's an inspirational place to study, and is home to many of our allied health, nursing and midwifery students.
Y ou don’t need to visit us in person to explore our facilities and campuses.
Our Engineering building is designed to revolutionise the way engineering is taught.
Featuring engine test cells, wind tunnels, dedicated collaborative learning spaces and all of the latest high-tech equipment.
The Bristol Business School is the largest building on Frenchay Campus.
Inside, you’ll find shared social and learning spaces.
It’s also home to the Bloomberg city trading room and mock court rooms.
Great for putting your new skills to the test.
Get hands on in our bespoke crime scene science and policing learning space, designed for authentic practical teaching sessions.
Apply your knowledge to simulations in mock living and business spaces and hone your skills in interactive learning rooms, from suspect interviewing to analysing blood patterns.
A student-led clinic managed by a team of BSc(Hons) Sport Rehabilitation students, offering a range of services to assess and treat sport and exercise-related injuries and musculoskeletal conditions.
Step onto our real replica hospital ward at Glenside Campus, complete with consultation rooms, maternity and children’s unit.
The centre uses all the same equipment that’s used in NHS hospitals so you can learn how to deliver effective healthcare in safe surroundings.
Situated within the Bristol Business School, our mock court rooms bring learning to life for our students.
Equipped with the latest recording
equipment, you can practise your skills in a practical setting.
Our award-winning Film Studio building is home to industry-standard production film making.
As well as stop motion animation, CGI studios, sound recording, colour grading studios, editing suites and two large photography suites.
This clever greenhouse is designed to transform research and partnerships in the areas of biodiversity, conservation, environmental change and food security.
Using environmentally-friendly LED lighting, the Envirotron enables researchers to experiment with a wide range of conditions.
Bristol Robotics Laboratory (BRL) is a nationally - and internationally - recognised as a centre of excellence for advanced robotics research.
And when you join us, you can get hands on with the kind of facilities most robotic engineers dream of.
Practice, test and expand paramedic or forensic skills for real in our specially modified Simulation House.
Find out about facilities available to you in your subject area.
Facilities to support careers and enterprise at UWE Bristol.
Whatever your health, fitness or sporting goal, we have the facilities and expertise to help you succeed from fitness suites to industry-leading multi-sports pitches.
When you need medical help, the University Health Centre on Frenchay Campus is your first port of call.
A buzzing, spacious, modern space where you'll find all the fun (and great value food and drink).
There's a bar, café, shop, terraces with outdoor seating, and bookable meeting areas.
There’s always space to think, learn and collaborate at UWE Bristol with our modern, well-equipped workstations, study spaces and learning zones across our three campuses.
There's more to student life than studying, so of course there are plenty of places to chill, relax, meet and make friends.
But when you need a little quiet me-time, we've got you covered too..
There are libraries across our campuses with printing facilities, group and quiet areas, bookable laptops and PCs.
Our Frenchay Campus library is open 24 hours a day.
Halley Nursery provides high quality childcare and education for the children of students, university employees and the local community.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/study/career-development:
Our Student Career Coaches and Career Advisers are on hand to talk through your options and help you find work experience and job opportunities that are right for you.
As a student at UWE Bristol, you also have access to the Career Toolkit, an online platform filled with hundreds of resources and tools to help you along the way.
Ready to get started?
There are different ways that you can get in touch with the Careers Service.
If you’re not sure where to start, come along to one of our drop-in sessions where you’ll speak with a Student Career Coach.
You can also book onto an appointment with a Career Adviser for a more in-depth discussion.
Our Student Career Coaches are on hand to help you navigate through careers resources, search for work and further study, guide you through the recruitment processes and empower your professional development.
They’re available to speak to at our regular drop-ins based in the Careers Lounge.
If you need specific career advice or want to talk in-depth about your situation, an appointment with a Professional Career Consultant is a great way to get one-to-one support.
Feel free to get in touch with our friendly team if you have any questions about how to access career support during your studies.
Access hundreds of online resources to help you start thinking about your future career and build your skills and confidence (student login required).
Discover opportunities to make connections, meet employers and gain valuable experience that will help you in your future career.
Browse our upcoming calendar of events and book onto employer fairs, workshops and more.
If you're considering postgraduate study, we have a number of resources on Career Toolkit to help you take your next step.
Access careers support and guidance about career development as an international student.
Equity is a positive action programme providing professional and personal development opportunities for Global Majority students.
The UWE Bristol Employability Bursary offers financial support to low income UK undergraduate students to participate in a range of eligible employability activities.
Find jobs, placements and volunteering opportunities to gain valuable experience in your chosen industry.
We have a number of paid internship schemes available to students and recent graduates.
These exciting opportunities will help you gain valuable work experience in a range of employment sectors.
Use your talents, develop new skills and build your confidence through volunteering.
Gain valuable international experience, language skills and cultural awareness by studying abroad.
Discover what life’s like studying for a year in a different country or try working for one of our international partners through a global experience.
Bring your business idea to life with Student Ventures – the Enterprise Team is on hand to help you at every stage of your entrepreneurial journey.
Further study information for UWE Bristol students including postgraduate study, conversion courses, studying overseas and funding further study.
View a break down of the next steps UWE Bristol students have taken six months after graduation.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/news/showcase-ma-degree-show-2025:
Media Relations Team,                        26 August 2025
Around 50 graduating students from MA Fine Art, MA Graphic Arts, and MA Multi-Disciplinary Printmaking will exhibit their work at UWE Bristol’s Showcase MA Degree Show , held at Spike Island from 4 September.
The free exhibition starts with an open evening on Thursday and is open daily from Friday 5 September until Wednesday 10 September, offering the public an opportunity to enjoy ambitious and innovative designs from the next generation of creative talent.
Marking the culmination of their postgraduate studies, the MA Degree Show features art and design work inspired by a variety of themes and life experiences.
Some of the students exhibiting are:
Mahtab Garrousi, studying MA Graphic Arts.
Mahtab’s project explores collage art and its influence on Persian culture.
“As a Persian student, I wanted to work on my own heritage because I believe it is rich, beautiful, and full of aspects that deserve to be investigated and shared,” said Mahtab.
The work combines traditional Persian visual elements with contemporary collage techniques, aiming to create a dialogue between past and present.
Inspired by the depth of Persian cultural history and the potential of collage as a medium to layer histories, symbols, and identities, Mahtab’s aim is to reinterpret cultural narratives and invite audiences to connect with them in a fresh, visual way.
Mahtab added: “This MA course has given me the confidence to develop my voice as an artist and allowed my interests and talents to flourish in new ways.
Exhibiting at Spike Island feels like an exciting opportunity to share my perspective with a wider audience.”
Humberto Cunha do Espirito Santo, studying MA Graphic Arts.
Humberto, who’s originally from Timor-Leste but has been living in Bristol since 2014, is exhibiting his final project which is based on the deeply personal topic of social anxiety.
Relating to his own experience of living with a stammer, he wants to share his story to raise awareness of the challenges many people face in silence.
The project includes three posters, one A0 and two A1, in portrait format, and a four-minute video and a 50-second motion graphic.
In the video, Humberto recreates the iconic speech from The King's Speech, reading the same words delivered by King George VI.
“I strongly relate to his struggle with public speaking,” said Humberto.
“Like him, I find it challenging to speak in front of others, even simple conversations with new people can be overwhelming.
This project has given me a powerful way to express those feelings visually and emotionally.
“Studying MA Graphic Arts at UWE Bristol has been a valuable and inspiring experience.
It’s given me the space to grow creatively and explore meaningful, personal themes through design - something I’ve always wanted to do.”
Hannah Kelly, studying MA Multi-Disciplinary Printmaking: Bedminster-based, Hannah’s work is underpinned by natural human connection to place.
Her printmaking is an expression of her dedication to the ecologists and artists who warned of climate change - her awe for all that is natural, felt and real.
She says: “As we live through climatic, personal and environmental flux, we are on the edge of light.
I observe moments as landscapes from the perspective of the small and a naturalist.
Perhaps we see continuity, yet we know there is transience throughout the minutia and the magnitude of each place experienced.
Water meets land, trees cling to the wild steep mountain’s edge.”
‘Before the deluge’ is a body of work which explores a language of superimposition in which the innate interconnection between colour, tone and texture begin to communicate a deep symbiotic relationship between light and shadow.
Threads of generations of life, ever present in natural and human history.
The opening times for the MA Degree Show are:
Thursday 4 September 17:00 – 20:00 (open evening) Friday 5 to Wednesday 10 September 12:00 – 17:00
No booking is required.
School of Arts meet the lecturers drop-in:
As part of the event, prospective students are invited to drop-in and meet the lecturers on Saturday 6 September to find out more about postgraduate programmes, including:
The event is open from 12:00 – 14:00.
Booking is required for the drop-in session.
Dr Will Grant , Associate Director of Postgraduate Taught Studies in UWE Bristol’s School of Arts , said: “This year’s MA Showcase brings together the creativity, skill and hard work of our graduating students; they should all be incredibly proud of what they’ve achieved.
This exhibition is a chance to step into their world and experience their ideas first-hand.”
The Showcase: MA Degree Show combines an exhibition at Spike Island, accompanied by a digital Showcase .
30 May 2025
A product design student from Iron Acton will unveil a prototype bionic glove to aid stroke rehab, during UWE Bristol’s annual Showcase starting on 5 June.
21 May 2025
UWE Bristol’s Showcase, celebrating student creativity and innovation across the College of Arts, Technology and Environment, returns this June.
20 August 2024
UWE Bristol’s Showcase: MA Degree Show returns to Spike Island on 5 September, featuring the extraordinary artwork of around 50 graduating students.
04 June 2024
Student Emily Annakin is hoping to land her dream job, using her own experience of visual impairment to design inclusive urban spaces.
07 May 2024
UWE Bristol's Showcase offers visitors the chance to discover a new generation of talent from the College of Arts, Technology and Environment.
30 August 2023
Students studying MA Design, MA Graphic Arts and MA Multi-Disciplinary Printmaking will exhibit their work at a special Showcase this month.
01 June 2023
An annual end of year celebration of work by students at the University of the West of England (UWE Bristol) takes place next week (8-15 June).
28 April 2023
The exceptional talent of graduating students at the University of the West of England (UWE Bristol) will be celebrated at the annual Degree Show this June.
30 May 2022
Emerging talent from UWE Bristol will exhibit at the graduate degree shows for the Creative Industries and Faculty of Environment and Technology this June.
Enquiries related to news releases and press and contacts for the media team.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/news/university-enterprise-zone:
Media Relations Team,                        22 August 2025
Around ten years ago, the government took a bold step to supercharge regional innovation and economic growth: it launched University Enterprise Zones (UEZs) – innovation hubs designed to bridge the gap between academia and business, bringing together university research, business expertise, and local partnerships to support the growth of high-tech, knowledge-intensive startups and scale-ups.
One of the four pilot projects chosen to test the concept was Future Space , on UWE Bristol’s Frenchay campus.
Fast forward a decade, and Future Space has grown into far more than just a collection of lab and office space.
It’s become a launchpad: a go-to location and economic powerhouse for cutting-edge companies that are playing a role in shaping the future of how we live, work and care for the planet.
To date, Future Space has supported over 150 companies across robotics, AI, medtech, biotech, and digital innovation.
From life-changing start-ups like SAH Diagnostics, developing innovative cancer diagnostics, to Albotherm, which offers temperature-responsive greenhouse coatings to support sustainable farming; and from Altered Carbon (SmartScent) that uses AI-driven sensors to detect scents for applications in fire detection, food safety, and healthcare to eXmoor Pharma, which has been at the forefront of cell and gene therapy for 20 years.
"Research collaborations have taken ideas out of the lab and into the marketplace, and collectively these companies have created thousands of high-value jobs in the region, playing a major part in the innovation ecosystem in the region.
"
Future Space’s success lies in its principles of space, business support, collaboration, and access to talent.
Within Future Space, tenants benefit from a modern, flexible environment with labs, shared working spaces and offices to support growing needs.
The new 10,000 square foot block opened last year is already 90% full.
Crucially, the businesses gain access to the university’s resources – from mentoring support to investor introductions, research partnerships and introductions to UWE’s students and graduates.
Over 80% of Future Space businesses work directly with the university, either with students, and academics, by accessing facilities or undertaking skills training.
Students also gain valuable, real-world experience.
This year alone, over 300 students have interacted with the work of the businesses located in Future Space through student internships and part-time roles, helping to bridge the gap between study and employment and contributing to the future talent pipeline.
Meanwhile, the businesses benefit from new ideas, talent, and additional capacity to drive growth - 73% reported increased R&D capability because of these collaborations.
Alongside Future Space, UWE’s Enterprise Zone also hosts world leading research centres – Bristol Robotics Lab, Heath Technology Laboratory, the Centre for Print research, and a creative arts, design and technology facility in The Bridge Studios.
All of these provide collaborative opportunities for businesses in Future Space to share facilities and ideas.
A new government review ‘ Final Impact and Process Evaluation of University Enterprise Zones’ , confirms what we already know here: the UEZ offers strong value for money.
In its first five years, it generated £17 million in Gross Value Added (GVA), through successful high-tech start-ups and research collaborations creating thousands of jobs and catalysing an area of innovation around the university.
Businesses based at Future Space have created over 600 new jobs to date, with a higher number in the past year going to UWE Bristol graduates than ever before.
In the last 12 months alone, Future Space contributed £7 million to the regional economy, bringing the total GVA generated to over £35.5 million across its nine years.
The report highlights the success of the UEZ experiment across the pilot areas, but Future Space goes further, by reflecting Bristol’s identity as a city that blends creativity with engineering and innovation.
The university’s firm commitment to this initiative and vital role in the city and region’s innovation ecosystem gives the region a competitive advantage.
Innovation is an integral part of who we are at UWE Bristol and is a central part of RISE - Research, Innovation, Skills and Enterprise – which is the unifying lens through which we tell our story.
It shapes who we are, our culture and future growth.
As we face economic uncertainty, climate challenges, and the rise of artificial intelligence, the need for resilient, innovative, and connected businesses will only grow.
On its tenth anniversary, the university is proud to be home to Future Space - a model of what can happen when academia and enterprise work hand-in-hand, powering the economies and communities around them.
Tracey John, Director of Research and External Engagement at UWE Bristol
16 July 2025
New research reveals a serious shortfall in rural social housing, with only 20 per cent of local authorities setting targets to deliver it.
A first of its kind website offering evidence-based psychological support for people with visible differences and their families has been launched by university researchers.
11 July 2025
Technology that a team of UWE Bristol scientists helped develop to aid the healing of chronic wounds will be used in new ‘smart dressings’ being launched by global medical company.
10 July 2025
A UWE Bristol academic has received funding to develop an online platform that connects people to local community organisations offering health and social care support.
03 July 2025
A new data and research centre designed to support sustainable and inclusive growth and industrial strategy in the region, has officially launched.
02 July 2025
UWE Bristol has been appointed as the evaluation and policy partner on a £1.75m project led by Bristol Climate & Nature Partnership.
26 June 2025
UWE Bristol is supporting the development of an innovative food processing centre in Devon that will transform food waste management and support greater food sustainability.
24 June 2025
Groundbreaking gestural musical glove technology originally developed at UWE Bristol will be exhibited at the Summer Science Exhibition 2025 in London.
11 June 2025
UWE Bristol has launched RISE - standing for Research, Innovation, Skills and Enterprise - an institutional framework which shapes the University's purpose, culture and future growth.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/news/caset-heif-event:
Media Relations Team,                        20 August 2025
Innovative approaches to university-industry partnerships to improve graduate employability in Nigeria were discussed by the country’s higher education leaders at an event brought together through UWE Bristol’s Centre for African Social and Economic Transformation (CASET).
Thirty Vice Chancellors and Directors of Entrepreneurship Centres from universities across Nigeria’s six geo-political zones met at the National Universities Commission (NUC) in Abuja.
The event was an opportunity for the country’s sector leaders to explore strategic opportunities to enhance educational outcomes in Nigeria through university and industry partnerships and entrepreneurship education.
The workshop, convened by Paschal Anosike, Director of CASET and Chair in African Research and Partnerships, was organised in collaboration with the NUC and supported by the Higher Education Innovation Fund (HEIF).
The event marked renewed commitment to strengthening Nigeria's higher education landscape through research, knowledge sharing, policy engagement and strategic partnerships.
Professor Abdullahi Yusufu Ribadu FCVSN, Executive Secretary of the NUC, stressed the importance of active and sustained dialogue among university leaders.
He highlighted the workshop as a platform to generate evidence-based insights that can shape future policy.
He said: “The NUC is committed to supporting initiatives that foster innovation, collaboration, and research impact in Nigerian universities.
The outcomes of this workshop - including the forthcoming report and whitepaper - will directly inform our policy directions.”
Professor Anosike emphasised the need for stronger university-industry links, and the development of strategic networks and policy frameworks that support sustainable change and innovation in Africa's higher education sector.
“This is not a one-off event but the first in a series of research and knowledge exchange activities that aim to bring together university leaders, policymakers, and the private sector.
By working together, we can create the ecosystem needed to transform education into a driver of inclusive economic growth,” he said.
UWE Bristol launched CASET earlier this year - a collaborative platform to support African-led innovation, research and higher education initiatives that respond to some of the continent’s key social and economic priorities.
23 May 2025
UWE Bristol has launched the Centre for African Social and Economic Transformation (CASET) — a collaborative platform to support African-led innovation, research and HE initiatives.
11 December 2024
A UWE Bristol alum has designed a flatpack wood burning stove which will provide a vital heat source for people whose homes have been damaged in areas of conflict across the world.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/news/conscious-advertising-network:
Media Relations Team,                        19 August 2025
UWE Bristol has become the UK’s first higher education institution to join the Conscious Advertising Network (CAN), a membership organisation that promotes responsible and sustainable advertising and marketing practices.
As part of its membership with CAN, UWE Bristol has committed to adhering to the network’s guiding principles which promote ethical advertising practices.
This involves ensuring advertising is inclusive and advocating for sustainable advertising content and processes without compromising on driving real results.
CAN has over 190 organisations in its network which has traditionally included advertising and media agencies.
UWE Bristol worked in collaboration with its own media agency, SMRS, to complete the rigorous process to join the network.
This included reviewing its own policies and procedures as an institution to make sure its advertising practices are responsible and representing diverse voices.
Charlotte Hopes, Head of Marketing at UWE Bristol, said: “Working towards CAN membership in collaboration with SMRS made sense - not only because it reflects our brand values, but it recognises a mutual desire to commit to best practice in ethical marketing.
We’re really proud to be the first UK university to become a full member and hope that this encourages other HE institutions to join us and help to drive positive change in the advertising industry.”
UWE Bristol will now follow CAN’s guiding principles when planning all future advertising campaigns, from content briefs to production, while SMRS will adhere to CAN principles when buying media and placing ads on behalf of the university, to collectively follow sustainable advertising best practice.
CAN co-founder Harriet Kingaby said: "We're thrilled to welcome UWE as a CAN member and pioneer in the higher education sector.
Their partnership with SMRS shows just what is possible when agencies and brands work together.
We hope that this will inspire more Bristol based agencies, and higher education organisations to consider the business, sustainability and ethical benefits of bringing transparency to their advertising supply chains."
07 July 2025
UWE Bristol has been named Training Provider of the Year at the Enginuity Skills Awards for its commitment to driving inclusive growth in the engineering industry.
08 April 2025
The Royal Society has named UWE Bristol’s Dr Alexandros Stratakos, Associate Professor and Principal Investigator in Sustainable Agri-Food Production, as one of the emerging leaders across the UK who are the newest members of the UK Young Academy.
22 January 2025
Do-it-yourself (DIY) greening kits could help safeguard the country's most vulnerable communities from the impacts of a rapidly changing environment, according to a new project supported by UWE Bristol.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/news/public-art-donation:
A large stainless steel sculpture symbolising unity and interconnectedness has been donated to UWE Bristol by one of its alum to display at the university’s Frenchay campus.
‘Link of Freedom’, the 5.2m sculpture created by Economics and International Relations alum Cedric Koukjian, is made up of six hand-hammered links.
Cedric reached out to his former university to donate the sculpture wanting to make a meaningful addition to the campus to inspire current and future students and promote connectedness - a quality he says makes UWE Bristol a “vibrant place of learning and growth”.
After completing his degree at UWE Bristol, Cedric went on to study specialised training design at institutions in Geneva and Bangkok.
Cedric’s style blends conceptual and industrial art using materials such as resin, metal, wood and stone to create large scale sculptures.
Cedric said: “As a designer today, I attribute much of my journey to the lessons and experiences I gathered during my years at the university.
I’ve titled the piece Link of Freedom to reflect the idea that education sets us free.
It connects people, ideas, communities, and generations.
This sculpture is a tribute to that spirit of knowledge and interconnectedness that UWE continues to nurture.”
The sculpture is now on display for staff, students and members of the public visiting the campus to view.
Justine Thaysen, Creative Director at UWE Bristol said: “This is a generous donation from Cedric with a powerful meaning behind it.
We’re really proud of the lasting relationships we have with our alumni community and it’s a brilliant opportunity to demonstrate this through Cedric's art.
‘Link of Freedom’ represents the connection we have at UWE Bristol with our staff, students and the local community - something we really value as a university.”
‘Link of Freedom’ is one of a number of pieces of public art on display across UWE Bristol’s campuses, including ‘ Nanowires ’ by artist Alice Channer in the School of Engineering; and the ‘ Tiny Wilderness ’, bronze and brick clay sculptures inspired by the vital habitats and ecosystem of non-flowering plants outside the student village Purdown View.
19 June 2025
Nikki Dodd, a UWE Bristol MA Wildlife Filmmaking student, has won a 2025 BAFTA Student Award for Best Documentary.
18 June 2025
Phil Legg, Professor of Cyber Security at UWE Bristol, has been appointed by the Cabinet Office to join the Government Cyber Advisory Board (GCAB).
13 June 2025
A UWE Bristol manager who founded a pioneering cyber security initiative for young people has been recognised in the King’s Birthday Honours list.
06 June 2025
Filmmaking students have fought off tough competition from 18 institutions to win four awards at the Kodak NAHEMI Student Commercials Awards.
27 May 2025
UWE Bristol is proud to celebrate the remarkable achievements of its filmmaking alum Hugo Pettitt, who has won a 2025 BAFTA TV Award.
09 April 2025
Three senior leaders from the College of Arts, Technology and Environment have been appointed to prominent national roles in architecture, art and design.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/news/bristol-pride-director-honorary-degree:
Media Relations Team,                        30 July 2025
Daryn Carter MBE, director of Bristol Pride, has been awarded an honorary degree from UWE Bristol in recognition of his service to the LGBTQ+ community in Bristol.
He collected his Honorary Doctor of Business Administration at the Bristol Beacon during UWE Bristol’s fortnight of graduation ceremonies, where almost 6,000 students celebrated completing their degree.
Daryn has worked in equality and diversity for nearly 20 years and helped to found Bristol Pride, delivering the first modern Pride festival in Bristol in 2010.
Bristol Pride has become one of the largest Pride events in the UK, and one of Bristol’s biggest annual events with 40,000 people attending Pride Day and 25,000 people marching in the parade through the city.
The event has grown under Daryn’s direction and relocated multiple times to meet the demand of its increasing popularity, beginning at Castle Park before moving to the Amphitheatre and Millenium Square, and onto its current home on the Downs.
Bristol Pride provides space for over 60 local charities and groups to engage with the Bristol community and showcase LGBTQ+ services.
Daryn’s passion for diversity and inclusion was kickstarted while working in recruitment at the BBC where he supported underrepresented groups to access jobs and implemented inclusive recruitment processes within the organisation.
In 2014, Daryn was awarded the Lord Mayor’s Medal for his work across Bristol to tackle inequality, and in 2020 he received an MBE in the Queen’s Birthday Honours and was granted Freedom of the City of Bristol.
Daryn has worked with businesses across Bristol to deliver workshops on discrimination and takes on advisory roles to help businesses establish equality-led staff networks.
He works with schools in the city to give talks on bullying, LGBTQ+ identities and Pride, and visits prisons to talk about hate crime with young offenders.
Daryn said: “I am incredibly honoured and proud to be awarded an honorary doctorate from UWE Bristol.
I'm thankful to see the importance of Pride and the positive impact that it has had on Bristol recognised.
It's been an incredible journey growing Bristol Pride to one of the largest events in the city and one of the biggest Pride events in the UK, and I'd like to thank everyone who has helped and supported Pride along the way.”
Sarah Grabham, Deputy Head of the College of Business and Law at UWE Bristol said: “Daryn’s contribution to society, to championing equality, and to providing a voice for the vulnerable is immeasurable and inspiring.
He works tirelessly to make Bristol and the wider region a more inclusive place for its community.
He is a true ambassador and leader, and we’re so pleased to be able to honour him.”
UWE Bristol’s graduation ceremonies take place between Monday 21 July and Thursday 31 July.
Daryn is one of a number of people being celebrated with honorary degrees in recognition of outstanding achievements in their chosen fields.
28 November 2024
Dr Zara Nanu MBE, an innovator in addressing workplace inequalities and tackling the gender pay gap, has been awarded an honorary degree by UWE Bristol.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/about/contact-us/how-to-contact-us:
We have Information Points on all our campuses to help answer general questions.
You can visit in person during opening hours, call or email.
The quickest way to ask a question is via our enquiry form.
For question about specific services, see key contacts and services .
Get help online
Visit the academic information section for information about awards, certificates, assessments, academic letters and references, and changing or withdrawing from your studies.
Explore accommodation at UWE Bristol and find information about how and when to apply.
Visit our courses and applying section for information about undergraduate study and postgraduate study .
Find country-specific information in our International study section.
Find contact details for campus security teams at each UWE Bristol campus for non-urgent enquiries.
Available 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, use this to contact the East Reception at Frenchay Campus for an immediate response.
Find Centre for Sport contacts and opening times .
Contact our Community Liaison team for guidance about community issues relating to UWE Bristol students or to make a report.
Information about data protection at UWE Bristol.
Data Protection Office - 7X222 University of the West of England Frenchay Campus Coldharbour Lane Bristol BS16 1QY United Kingdom
Find information about UWE Bristol graduation ceremonies .
Explore IT Services at UWE Bristol and contact the IT Services desk .
Find current vacancies and learn more about working at UWE Bristol .
Find out about Library Services at UWE Bristol campuses.
Visit Media Relations enquiries for team member details and out of hours contacts.
Find information about Research at UWE Bristol and links to research centres and groups.
Find information about the range of study support for students, including Student Support Advisers.
For further information about getting support with your studies, complete the online form or contact the Information Point .
Get help online (login required)
Find out more about The Students' Union at UWE .
Visit conference and event facilities for information about event spaces and services at UWE Bristol.
If you are a parent, friend, carer or family member with urgent concerns about the welfare of a student, please our Wellbeing, emergency and crisis support information.
If you are travelling overseas as part of UWE Bristol study or other activities, you may be able to get help via the IMG emergency helpline - see UWE Bristol travel cover summary 2025-26 (PDF) .
Find addresses, campus maps and detailed information about travel to all UWE Bristol campuses at visit us .
Can't find what you're looking for?
Try these links to more services and resources.
A comprehensive list of university services from Printworks to Hospitality.
Campus maps and car parking and travel information for all UWE Bristol campuses.
Information and contacts for the schools within each of our three departments.
Find everything you need to help with your studies and your life at UWE Bristol.
Search staff profiles to find a UWE Bristol staff member.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/life/campus-and-facilities/city-campus:
City Campus is UWE Bristol's creative and cultural industries campus made up of city centre sites at Bower Ashton, Spike Island, Arnolfini and Watershed.
Join student, Dani on a whistle-stop tour of each city campus site and see facilities including film studios, fashion workshops and fabrication suites.
Share her favourite views of the Ashton Court Estate and find out where she heads to eat and relax.
Hub of the City Campus for all students studying creative disciplines.
City Campus shares this iconic building on Bristol Harbourside with the Arnolfini Gallery.
Spike Island is an internationally renowned contemporary art centre and home to our Fine Art Studios.
The leading film culture and digital media centre in the South West and home to UWE Bristol’s Digital Cultures Research Centre.
Maps and directions, bike routes, bus routes and train services to and from our campuses.
You don’t need to visit us in person to explore our facilities and campuses.
Unable to make one of our Open Days and fancy a glimpse of university life?
Download one of our tours on our self-guided tours page and come and see us at a time that suits you.
Our new modern Design studios at Bower Ashton feature flexible workshop spaces, design studios, the Fabrication Centre, the Centre for Fine Print Research and dedicated collaborative learning spaces.
We're sure you'll be impressed.
Got a big idea?
Our fabrication facilities - and enthusiastic support staff - will help you make it real.
From amazing lasers to 3D printers to traditional crafts and skills, our facilities will help you bring your ideas to life.
You can access facilities across the whole of Bower Ashton Campus whilst studying fashion, exploring fabrication, print and digital design to produce incredible work.
Our Printmaking studios at Bower Ashton contain a diverse range of equipment and processes waiting to bring your ideas to life in print.
Imagine getting access to the kind of kit that lets you create Pixar-style computer-aided animation.
Or impressing Aardman with your stop frame answer to Wallace and Gromit films.
Stop imagining and make it happen.
Join our School of Creative and Cultural Industries and you'll learn your craft in a multimedia newsroom and studio that's the professional deal.
The facilities and equipment in our workshops and studios will help you get your creative career off to a flying start whether you're most at home on stage, creating the scene or directing the show.
We provide a diverse range of expertise and support to all students who wish to sew or make using soft materials or fabrics in our sewing rooms and digital embroidery room.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/life/campus-and-facilities/frenchay-campus:
Our main campus, a 15-minute bus ride from the city centre.
Here you'll find our Students' Union, 24/7 Library, sports facilities, shops and numerous cafes, bars and restaurants.
Join student, Callum on a whistle-stop tour of facilities, accommodation and travel links.
Hear about his favourite places to eat and relax and get a feel for student life on Frenchay Campus.
There are libraries across our campuses with printing faciltiies, group and quiet areas, bookable laptops and PCs.
The Bristol Business School building is the largest on Frenchay Campus.
Purdown View
Frenchay Campus, UWE Bristol, Coldharbour Lane, Frenchay, Bristol, BS16 1QY.
Bristol Parkway train station connects UK-wide, while the handy Filton Abbey Wood gets you to destinations across the city and beyond.
There are bus stops on campus to hop on the speedy Metrobus into town – and even a dedicated Megabus stop for longer journeys.
Now breathe.
There’s plenty of open space on campus: trails where bees thrive, community gardens, even spots to pick some fresh herbs to throw in your pasta.
Just a short walk from campus is Stoke Park Estate, a sprawling historic park that's popular and free to access.
Abbeywood Retail Park is a five minute walk away, with shops, cafes and restaurants.
A large Sainsbury’s store is also a short walk away.
There’s plenty right on the doorstep on Frenchay Campus: The Students' Union, 24/7 Library, Centre for Music, sports facilities, shops and numerous cafes, bars and restaurants.
Student Village is a vibrant community on Frenchay Campus with space for over 2,000 students.
You’ll live in a six-person flat with an en-suite room and shared kitchen.
Wallscourt Park is a mixture of townhouses and flats on Frenchay Campus with over 900 rooms.
You’ll live only minutes away from lectures, the library and campus facilities.
Courses at UWE Bristol including foundation courses, undergraduate courses and postgraduate courses plus part-time, professional and international courses.
How to apply for courses as an undergraduate, postgraduate or international student.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/life/campus-and-facilities/glenside-campus:
Set in picturesque grounds in Fishponds, a short bus ride from the city centre and home to our allied health, nursing and midwifery students.
With a wide range of health and social care disciplines taught under one roof, Glenside Campus is dedicated to health and wellbeing, where students are supported to thrive.
Join student, Romina on a whistle-stop tour of facilities including our replica hospital ward, diagnostic radiography suite and eye clinic.
Hear about her favourite places to eat and relax and get a feel for student life on Glenside Campus.
Take a virtual tour
A practical learning space for trainee optometrists, paramedics, nurses and occupational therapy students.
Managed by a team of BSc(Hons) Sports Rehabilitation students, Glenside Sports Injury Clinic is open to UWE Bristol students, staff and members of the public.
The clinic offers a range of services to assess and rehabilitate sport and exercise-related injuries and musculoskeletal conditions.
Radiography students benefit from this amazing training platform which develops invaluable operational skills and builds confidence away from the pressured clinical environment.
The UWE Bristol Eye Clinic is a student-led service with fully-equipped treatment rooms.
Glenside Campus, UWE Bristol, Blackberry Hill, Fishponds, Bristol, BS16 1DD.
There are regular buses to the city centre, Frenchay Campus (3 miles away) and Fishponds Road.
There are also plenty of cycle paths for fresh air and exercise.
There's plenty of green, open space on Glenside Campus itself.
Pick your own fruit in the summer months and find herbs for your cooking.
Ready for a break?
Explore Snuff Mills and the Oldbury Court Estate – perfect for walks, bikes, even yoga.
Fishponds Road is a bustling hub of shops, restaurants and cafes.
Supermarkets sit alongside independent shops, and there’s a GP and dentist within a short walk.
Glenside has its own Students' Union on campus, specialist health and social care library and a range of cafes and restaurants.
Glenside accommodation is ideal for Health and Applied Science students.
Located in the heart of Glenside Campus with room for over 280 students, you’ll live in a shared flat for three to seven people.
Located opposite Glenside Campus, The Hollies is ideal for Health and Applied Science students and has over 170 rooms.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/life/campus-and-facilities/car-parking:
UWE Bristol's car parks are managed for the benefit of authorised staff, students and visitors to the campuses.
We operate a permit system and certain car parks have restricted access rights.
All vehicles, except motorbikes, parked on UWE Bristol campuses between the core hours of 08:30 and 17:00 Monday-Friday must display parking validation or a local authority Blue Badge in their vehicle windscreen or driver's window.
Where you can park, how to obtain a permit and an overview of the University's parking policy.
See which car parks are open to staff, how to apply for permits, register your car or book a parking space for a visitor.
Find out how to get a temporary pass and where to report when you're visiting one of our campuses.
Pay your UWE Bristol campus Parking Charge Notice online.
Details of parking infringements, parking notice charges and the appeals process.
Blue Badge holders are exempt from parking charges within University-managed car parks.
By sharing your car journey to UWE Bristol with someone else, you can save both time and money.
By car sharing:
Learn more about our Travel Action Plan and our commitment to zero carbon emissions by 2030 .
Register to find other people looking to car share on UWE Bristol's joinmyjourney , a dedicated site for UWE Bristol staff and students.
Your first stop for questions relating to car parking at UWE Bristol.
Parking in residential areas has become an issue of great inconvenience and distress to the residents and neighbours around our campuses.
Please take note of the parking restrictions in the residential areas surrounding UWE Bristol campuses.
Travel and Access University of the West of England Facilities Coldharbour Lane Frenchay Bristol BS16 1QY
Email: travel.team@uwe.ac.uk
Telephone: +44 (0)117 32 81222
It's easy to get from one campus to another and in and around the city centre, as well as going further afield, with Bristol's excellent transport links.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/about/visit-us:
Information on how to find us, our campuses, car parking and how to get in touch.
Find out where you can park, how to apply for a permit and how to pay a Penalty Charge Notice (PCN).
Find your way around Frenchay Campus.
Find cafes, car parks, Information Points, buildings, cycling routes, bus stops and taxi pick up points.
A map of our Bower Ashton site (part of our City Campus) including buildings, car parks, Information Points and bus stops.
Find your way around Glenside Campus.
Information Points are on each campus to help answer your questions.
Find contact details, locations and links to further support and information.
Bristol has lots of places to stay when you're visiting our city and campuses.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/study/library:
Browse library resources A-Z including:
Log in to your library account Book a computer Access your reading list
Get help using e-resources Credit your Pharos printing account
Additional information, workbooks, and useful links for your subject.
For contact details, location, accessibility information and to find out about library facilities visit our individual library pages:
Our libraries
How to use the library.
Information for students, disabled users, researchers, staff, and external visitors.
Borrowing items, recalls and reservations, renewing, returning items, and borrowing items from other libraries.
Useful information on the printing, photocopying and scanning facilities at our libraries, and how to comply with copyright law.
LinkedIn Learning is a vast library of high quality, current, and engaging video tutorials for training in software, design and business skills.
Alternative formats, accessibility guides for each library and additional support services.
Additional resources and services for postgraduate researchers and research staff.
Ways to get in touch with the library.
Support to help you study, including referencing, academic writing, research skills, time management, reading, plagiarism advice, and IT.
We have spaces and facilities across all campuses that you can book or just turn up and use.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/about/jobs:
View our current job opportunities and benefits of working at UWE Bristol.
It’s the collective force of our people that transform futures – for our students, colleagues, and communities.
We are a diverse, supportive staff community of over 4,000, and we hear everyone’s voice, respect everyone’s opinion and value everyone’s contribution.
Joining us means you can be bold and be you, as you learn, grow and flourish.
Bring us your talent and ambition and together we can work to solve future global challenges through outstanding learning, research and a culture of enterprise.
See first-hand how you can learn, grow and flourish as part of our staff community.
From competitive pay and a generous holiday allowance to flexible working and fantastic facilities to enjoy.
There are plenty of reasons to work for us, but one reason stands out.
We offer something many other employers don’t.
We’re an organisation working hard to improve the world, and by joining us you could be doing the same.
Our staff benefits
We’re here for our people, and we understand that good health ensures a positive working experience and great performance.
We therefore give all our staff access to wellbeing and support services.
Performing to the highest standards means not only attracting the best people, but enabling them to become even better.
So we’ll encourage you to develop yourself personally and professionally through our wide range of courses.
As a diverse, supportive community, we hear everyone’s voice, respect everyone’s opinion and value everyone’s contribution.
Our culture nourishes diversity, equality, and inclusion.
Add your individuality to ours and help set us apart.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/study/term-dates:
View details of UWE Bristol term times and key dates for the current and future academic years.
Please note that the dates given are the standard University dates.
Different dates may apply for some courses.
Students should not book holiday in University term time or during assessment periods.
Find out how to understand and use your teaching timetable
View standard dates for the academic years.
2024/25 term dates
2025/26 term dates
Timetables for the 2025/26 academic year will be published on Wednesday 3 September 2025 .
After timetables have been published, your timetable will be available once you have started the registration process in MYUWE .
It can take up to three working days after you have registered for your timetable to show in MYUWE.
Please note the early timetable publication dates for the following:
If you have already started your course but do not have access to your timetable or if you have a problem with your timetable, go to our timetable guidance .
How to understand and use your teaching timetable.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/about/colleges-and-schools:
Find out more about the Schools within our three Colleges.
The College of Arts, Technology and Environment (CATE) brings together four highly successful and vibrant disciplines including Arts, Architecture and Environment, Computing and Creative Technologies and Engineering.
College of Health, Science and Society (CHSS) is a large, diverse and dynamic part of the University, bringing together experts from Health and Social Wellbeing, Applied Sciences, Education and Social Sciences.
The College of Business and Law (CBL) comprises Bristol Business School and Bristol Law School who provide a range of undergraduate, postgraduate, higher research and professional courses.
Find out more about professional services at UWE Bristol.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/about/contact-us/website-feedback:
How to provide feedback about the UWE Bristol website or report a website related problem.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/about/website/accessibility:
We are actively working to make our web services accessible to all users.
This accessibility statement applies to the University of the West of England website.
This website is run by the University of the West of England.
We want as many people as possible to be able to use this website.
For example, that means you should be able to:
We’ve also made the website text as simple as possible to understand.
We know some parts of this website are not fully accessible:
Some content is 3rd-party and not under our control:
PDFs are not fully accessible across the website, some of these are needed to use a key service, examples include:
If you need information on this website in a different format like accessible PDF, large print, easy read, audio recording or braille:
We’ll consider your request and get back to you in 10 days.
If you cannot view the map on our ‘contact us’ page, please call or email us for directions.
We’re always looking to improve the accessibility of this website.
If you find any problems not listed on this page or think we’re not meeting accessibility requirements, contact:
The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 (the ‘accessibility regulations’).
If you’re not happy with how we respond to your complaint, contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS) .
We provide a text relay service for people who are D/deaf, hearing impaired or have a speech impediment.
Our offices have audio induction loops, or if you contact us before your visit we can arrange a British Sign Language (BSL) interpreter.
Find out how to contact us .
The University of West England is committed to making its website accessible, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018.
This website is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.2 AA standard, due to the non-compliances listed below.
The content listed below is non-accessible for the following reasons.
We’ve assessed the cost of fixing the issues with navigation and accessing information, and with interactive tools and transactions.
We believe that doing so now would be a disproportionate burden within the meaning of the accessibility regulations.
We will make another assessment when the supplier contracts are up for renewal.
Some digital services delivered by the University currently use third-party provided technologies.
There may be cases where these systems cannot deliver the same level of accessibility compliance that the website offers and the University is not able to influence the code on those platforms.
We are working to strengthen our expectation of suppliers during procurement or renegotiation of contracts to enhance compliance in these systems.
Third-party systems used include:
The University provides a number of mobile apps which it has developed via Google Play and Apple App Store to support student experiences.
We are committed to making our mobile app experiences as accessible as possible although some mobile app services delivered by the University currently use third-party provided technologies.
There may be cases where these apps cannot deliver the same level of accessibility compliance that the website offers and the University is not able to influence the code on those products.
Some of our PDFs and Word documents are essential to providing our services.
For example, we have PDFs with information on how users can access our services, and forms published as Word documents.
We plan to either fix these or replace them with accessible HTML pages.
The accessibility regulations do not require us to fix PDFs or other documents published before 23 September 2018 if they’re not essential to providing our services.
Any new PDFs or Word documents we publish will meet accessibility standards.
We do not plan to add captions to live video streams because live video is exempt from meeting the accessibility regulations .
This statement was prepared on 15 December 2023.
It was last reviewed on 11 January 2024.
This website was last tested on 14 December 2023.
The test was carried out by Nomensa Ltd.
The testing used a combination of accessibility evaluation tools, visual inspection of code and testing with assistive technology to evaluate a representative subset of 41 test samples across 15 pages.
The testing assessed the following pages:
You can read the full accessibility report (PDF) .
This statement applies to content published on our Digital Learning Environment (DLE) systems at UWE Bristol.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/about/website/privacy:
This privacy notice explains how the University of the West of England, Bristol (UWE Bristol) collects, manages, and uses your personal data.
‘Personal data’ means any information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person (the data subject).
This privacy notice adheres to the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) principle of transparency.
This means it gives information about:
As a data controller we are committed to protecting the privacy and security of your personal data in accordance with the UK General Data Protection Regulation (UK GDPR), the Data Protection Act 2018 (or any successor legislation) and any other legislation directly relating to privacy laws that apply (together “the Data Protection Legislation”).
General information on Data Protection law is available from the Information Commissioner’s Office .
As you use this website or other digital services, you may be asked to provide personal information by entering it on a web page and submitting it to the University by clicking a button or link (this includes enquiry or feedback forms and discussion boards).
If you have consented to receive marketing, we will use your data to provide you with relevant information about the University, to respond to your enquiries, for quality assurance and market research and to find others who may be interested in receiving information about the University.
We will only process your personal data when the law allows us to.
In addition, we will always comply with UWE Bristol’s policies and procedures in processing your personal data.
Our lawful basis for using your personal data includes:
You can find out more information about lawful bases on the Information Commissioner’s Office website.
We will always tell you about the information we wish to collect from you and how we will use it.
We will not use your personal data for automated decision making about you or for profiling purposes.
As you use this website or other digital services, you may be asked to provide personal information when completing one of our online forms and submitting it to the University by clicking a button or link.
Typically, we collect this information when you take a virtual tour, send an enquiry or book to attend an open day.
Data we collect includes your name, title, date of birth, address, email address, phone number, subject of interest, academic year you wish to start.
When you access our website or app, certain information you provide will automatically be recorded by the University through the use of cookies.
Please refer to our cookies policy for further information regarding our use of cookies.
Information collected through cookies and session recordings is stored and used for aggregated and statistical reporting with the purpose of improving our services.
Information collected will include your IP address, browser type, and information relating to the page(s) you visited such as mouse events, key presses and text typed on web forms.
In some instances, we will receive similar information from third parties whose web services you have used (including UCAS, WhatUni, The Student Room).
We will share personal information with third party organisations (such as software providers), who provide services such as event booking, marketing and our virtual tour platform.
Where this is the case, we will always ensure appropriate security and contractual data processing agreements are in place.
Where you have provided your consent to receive updates and promotional information from UWE Bristol, we will share your personal data (name, email, telephone number) information with third parties for marketing and advertising purposes.
This will include:
Where you have provided your consent to receive updates and promotional information from UWE Bristol, we use first-party data, which includes data you provide directly to us when, for example, completing a form on our website (signing up to an open day, using our virtual tour platform, etc) and data we collect through your interactions with our website and services, to enhance our advertising efforts.
This first-party data allows us to:
We use this data in compliance with all relevant data protection legislation and ensure that your data is handled securely.
Your personally identifiable information is not used by any remarketing service other than to present you with specific communications from us.
You can opt-out of Google Analytics advertising features using their opt-out tool or the Network Initiatives consumer opt-out .
You can also set your ad preferences in Meta and other social media platforms by accessing your privacy settings.
Your personal information may be transferred by us or our third-party data processors out of the European Economic Area (EEA).
We will always ensure that such transfers will be safeguarded by appropriate transfer mechanisms.
Any queries regarding specific transfers should be addressed to dataprotection@uwe.ac.uk .
To maintain and improve the quality of our website and app we use the web metrics services listed below:
You may receive targeted marketing using information gathered through your online activity on our website, app or on third party websites based on a range of criteria including demographic information, location, interests and past browsing behaviour.
We use a remarketing service to advertise to previous visitors of this website on third party websites.
Information gathered could include browsing behaviour, demographics or interests.
This is shared with Google and in some instances social media channels such as META, LinkedIn, Tik Tok, X (formerly Twitter) and Snapchat.
Remarketing activity could be in the form of an advertisement on a search results page, or on a third-party website that is part of the Google Display Network (or other network).
See our cookie policy for details about managing your cookie preferences.
UWE Bristol maintains a presence on a number of social media.
When entering your personal information on these channels you understand and acknowledge that your data will also be subject to the privacy policies of the third-party providers as well as this Privacy Policy.
Blackboard is a web-based learning environment used by staff and students at the University of the West of England (UWE Bristol).
It requires users to "log in" by entering a user ID and password when they wish to access its resources.
The following special provisions of our Privacy Policy apply to its use.
If you are enrolled in a module which uses Blackboard your use of that site may be logged.
Your module leader and system administrators can access such information as the number of times you logged onto the site, the pages you visited, and the dates and times that you visited them.
Where your tutor intends to use the tracking, information created by Blackboard for the purposes of assessment he/she must advise you in advance.
You may wish to seek the advice of your tutor if in doubt.
Please note that for the purposes of the General Data Protection Regulation as applied, enacted, and amended in UK law by logging on to Blackboard you acknowledge and understand that the University of the West of England (UWE Bristol) holds and processes information relating to your use of that system.
This processing takes effect subject to this Privacy Policy.
This statement should be read in conjunction with the University's IT Monitoring Statement (under section 7 of the Information Security Policy (PDF) ).
Participation in a Blackboard course or organisation may require you to send and receive email.
Your tutor may correspond with you through email and may in addition require you to communicate with fellow students through email.
Your email address will also be published if you post to a discussion board within Blackboard.
By participating in a Blackboard course or organisation, you acknowledge and understand that we publish your email address within the Blackboard system.
UWE Bristol students must not publish another student's email address without their express informed consent.
You should not use the email facility within Blackboard to email en masse to your fellow students, unless this has been expressly authorised by the tutor.
The following relates to emails that link to this page at their base.
Using the information that you provided on registration, UWE Bristol may from time to time contact you by email.
UWE Bristol uses Dotdigital to send such emails.
Dotdigital uses unique identifiers in those emails to perform tracking functions.
We use the tracking data they collect to ensure our emails are both relevant to your interests and to ensure we do not email you needlessly.
Information on how to disable this can be found online or in your email program instructions.
You may choose to opt out of emails sent by UWE Bristol using the link provided on the email.
UWE Bristol does not send unsolicited email.
If you appear to have received unsolicited emails from us, please use the unsubscribe link on the email or contact us and we will remove you from our lists.
We take a robust approach to protecting your information with secure electronic and physical storage areas for data with controlled access.
Access to your personal data is strictly controlled on a need-to-know basis and data is stored and transmitted securely using methods such as encryption and access controls for physical records where appropriate.
Alongside these technical measures there are comprehensive and effective policies and processes in place to ensure that those who process your personal information are aware of their obligations and responsibilities for the data they have access to.
By default, people are only granted access to the information they require to perform their duties.
Mandatory data protection and information security training is provided to staff and expert advice available if needed.
We will only retain your personal data for as long as we need it to carry out the purposes in this notice.
Please see our University Records Management Policy and Records Retention Schedules for more detailed information.
These are available by contacting our Data Protection Office at dataprotection@uwe.ac.uk .
We may need the consent of your parent or guardian if you are under 16 years of age and wish to access our services by entering your personal information into this website or any of our digital services.
Parents or guardians should first email dataprotection@uwe.ac.uk for further guidance.
Under the Data Protection legislation, you have the following qualified rights:
To protect your privacy and the privacy of others, we will verify your identity before giving effect to your rights.
To exercise any of your rights please contact the Data Protection Officer.
For overall guidance on current data protection legislation, see UWE Bristol's GDPR summary .
If you are a UWE Bristol student, applicant, staff or alumni see UWE Bristol's privacy notices for further guidance.
If you are registering for events via our website, your personal data will also be processed in line with our Student recruitment events privacy notice .
For further details on data subject rights, see UWE Bristol's data subject rights statement (PDF) .
We will always respond to concerns or queries you may have.
If you wish to exercise your rights or have any other general data protection queries, please contact UWE Bristol’s Data Protection Officer at dataprotection@uwe.ac.uk .
For further information relation to Marketing and advertising contact:
University of the West of England (UWE Bristol) Frenchay Campus Coldharbour Lane Bristol BS16 1QY
Phone: +44 (0)117 965 6261

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/about/website/cookies:
This page should be read as an extension of the University's Privacy Policy and Terms and Conditions .
VIEW COOKIE SETTINGS
View instructions on how to clear your browser of stored cookies for the following popular browsers:
Alternatively view our clearing cookies instructions.
Blackboard is the University's Virtual Learning Environment.
You can only access Blackboard if you have a UWE userID and password.
At this University, Blackboard uses persistent cookies when you access the service, but deletes them when you log out.
All users are encouraged to log out when they have finished using any system to which they have logged in.
In Blackboard, the use of cookies is necessary to identify individual users and thus to ensure that their personal data within the system is handled in a secure manner, ie by ensuring that only they can access materials associated with their user profile.
As such storage is strictly necessary for the provision of an information society service in the context of the Privacy and Electronic Communications (EC Directive) Regulations (See further Regulation 6(4)(b)).

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/about/website/terms-and-conditions:
The following terms and conditions apply to your use of this website.
Whilst every effort has been made to ensure the accuracy of the information supplied on this web server, the University of the West of England (UWE Bristol) cannot be held responsible for any errors or omissions.
Courses and facilities may be cancelled, modified or replaced at short notice.
Opinions expressed within the pages of this website are those of the author and do not necessarily represent the views of the University.
Your use of this website and information is at your own risk.
Please see also the University's Cookie Policy .
Our Ask IT chatbot is designed to provide general information and support on topics related to IT Support.
However, please be aware that the chatbot is an automated system, and it may not always provide 100% accurate information.
While we strive to provide accurate information, we cannot guarantee the accuracy, completeness, or the up-to-date nature of the information provided by the chatbot.
We may process your personal information when you interact with our chatbot for the purpose of confirming your identity and responding to your enquiry if further support is required.
For further information on how we process your data please review the student or staff Privacy Notice.
By using our website and interacting with our chatbot, you agree to the terms of this disclaimer.
If you do not agree with any part of this disclaimer, we recommend refraining from using the chatbot.
The University of the West of England (UWE Bristol) is not responsible for the content of other internet sites linked from its pages.
UWE Bristol accepts no responsibility for information not published in the name of UWE Bristol or for information in the web pages of third parties connected by means of links to or from the web pages of UWE Bristol.
The University of the West of England (UWE Bristol) does not provide notification when changing the content of pages on its websites.
Use of this website is at the user's own risk.
We accept no liability in respect of losses or damages arising out of changes made to the content of this website by unauthorised third parties.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/life/health-and-wellbeing/staying-safe-on-and-off-campus/support-for-harassment:
We're here to support you if you are experiencing harassment or sexual misconduct.
We are committed to making sure that students affected by sexual violence or harassment are supported.
This commitment was created by the University of Bath , Bath Spa University , University of Bristol, UWE Bristol , and their respective Students’ Unions.
The Vice-Chancellors from each of the universities, and The Students’ Unions’ Presidents and Officers commit to the following:
Learn more about types of harassment and misconduct and the policies we have in place to support a respectful and inclusive environment.
Learn more about what harassment and misconduct is and the support available to you if you are experiencing harassment or if you are accused of misconduct.
Understand the student conduct policy and why these standards are in place to help create a safer, more inclusive community.
Learn more about consent and how to advocate for yourself and others by recognising inappropriate behaviour.
UWE Bristol is committed to ensuring that policies addressing harassment and sexual misconduct do not inadvertently restrict lawful freedom of speech.
This balance is essential to upholding both student safety and academic freedoms.
The condition of registration explicitly requires the University to act in compliance the principles of freedom of speech and academic freedom.
Freedom of speech is protected under the Education (No.
2) Act 1986 , which places a duty on universities to ensure freedom of speech within the law.
The Higher Education (Freedom of Speech) Act 2023 further strengthens these protections, requiring providers to actively promote and protect lawful free speech on campus.
Below are key resources that help ensure the safety and wellbeing of students and staff at the university.
Other policies:
We encourage you to complete the stay safe, skill up training for students available on Infohub (SSO log in required).
Stay safe, skill up
There are two e-learning modules available to staff on our MyLearning platform (log in required).
Responding to disclosure of unwanted sexual incidents
Prevention of sexual harassment in HE
Incident reporting statistics will be available September onwards.
We invite feedback from students and staff through our Student Voice provision.
Please reach out and get in touch with any feedback .
The UWE Bristol Policy Governance Framework provides a structured, values-led approach to the development, approval, implementation, and review of student and academic policies.
Overseen by Academic Board, the framework ensures that all policies, procedures, and codes of practice uphold academic standards, enhance quality, and support continuous improvement of the student experience.
Policies are expected to be clear, inclusive, proportionate, and compliant with relevant legislative and regulatory requirements.
The framework applies to all academic governance-related documents and informs corporate policy development, promoting consistency and transparency across the institution.
The policy development cycle comprises five key stages: initiation, design and drafting, approval, implementation and communication, and monitoring and review.
Each policy has a designated Senior Policy Owner and Policy Author, with student and stakeholder engagement embedded throughout the process.
Supporting documentation, including equality analysis, risk registers, and implementation plans, is required to ensure robust development and operationalisation.
Policies must follow a standard format, be published on the university website, and undergo regular review, at least every three years, to ensure continued relevance and effectiveness.
Compliance is monitored through the Annual Academic Assurance Reporting process.
This framework supports UWE Bristol’s commitment to good academic governance and provides assurance to the Board of Governors and external regulators that institutional policies are fit for purpose, consistently applied, and aligned with sector best practice.
At UWE Bristol, we are committed to fostering a safe, respectful, and inclusive environment for all members of our university community.
In line with the Office for Students’ (OfS) Condition of Registration E6 on harassment and sexual misconduct, which comes into force on 1 August 2025, we have taken steps to ensure our policies and procedures meet regulatory expectations.
Our institutional approach is underpinned by a single, accessible, and comprehensive source of information that outlines our policies and procedures relating to harassment and sexual misconduct.
This includes clear guidance on reporting mechanisms, support services, and the responsibilities of staff and students.
These policies are regularly reviewed and updated to ensure compliance with the OfS content and prominence principles.
UWE Bristol’s policies are fully aligned with the legal definitions and protections set out in the Equality Act 2010, particularly Section 26, which defines harassment as unwanted conduct related to a protected characteristic that violates a person’s dignity or creates an intimidating, hostile, degrading, humiliating, or offensive environment.
Our definitions also reflect the Protection from Harassment Act 1997, ensuring consistency with UK law.
We have also implemented specific measures to address intimate personal relationships between staff and students, in accordance with E6.5 and E6.6.
These include clear disclosure requirements designed to prevent conflicts of interest and protect students from potential abuses of power.
Our Bullying and Harassment Policy and Sexual and Domestic Violence, Abuse and Harassment Statement, developed in partnership with The Students’ Union at UWE, reflect our zero-tolerance stance and our commitment to survivor-centred support.
These documents are publicly available and form part of our broader strategy to promote equality, diversity, and inclusion across the university.
UWE Bristol remains committed to continuous improvement in this area, working collaboratively with students, staff, and external partners to ensure our campus remains a safe and supportive place for all.
Abuse of power occurs when a person in a position of authority (for example, a staff member) uses their role to exploit, manipulate, or exert undue influence over another individual, typically a student, in a way that is harmful or coercive.
Academic freedom is the right of academic staff and students to freely pursue knowledge, research, and teaching without undue interference or restriction, including the freedom to question and test received wisdom and to put forward new ideas.
An active bystander is someone who recognises harmful or potentially harmful behaviour (such as harassment or sexual misconduct) and chooses to intervene safely and appropriately to prevent or stop it.
The balance of probabilities is the standard of proof used in civil and university disciplinary proceedings.
It means that a decision-maker must be satisfied that it is more likely than not (for example, over 50% likely) that the alleged incident occurred.
Consent is the agreement to engage in a specific activity, given freely, clearly, and enthusiastically by a person with the capacity to do so.
Consent must be informed, ongoing, and can be withdrawn at any time.
Freedom of speech in higher education refers to the right of students, staff, and visiting speakers to express lawful views and opinions without fear of censorship or disciplinary action, even if those views are controversial or unpopular.
Harassment is unwanted behaviour related to a protected characteristic (for example, sex, race, disability) that has the purpose or effect of violating a person’s dignity or creating a hostile, degrading, or offensive environment.
These are relationships that go beyond professional or academic interactions and involve emotional or sexual intimacy between individuals, particularly between staff and students.
Natural justice refers to the fundamental principles of fairness in decision-making processes.
It includes:
A power imbalance refers to a situation where one individual holds more influence, authority, or control over another, often due to differences in status (for example staff versus student), age, or access to institutional resources.
Sexual misconduct includes a range of unwelcome behaviours of a sexual nature that violate a person’s dignity or create an intimidating, hostile, degrading, humiliating, or offensive environment.
This can include sexual harassment, assault, coercion, and unwanted touching or communication.
Our Report and Support online tool will help you speak up when you see or hear something that's not right.
Find out how to raise a safeguarding concern.
We take all safeguarding concerns seriously and take proportionate and appropriate action.
Who to contact if you have urgent concerns about the welfare of a student or need support yourself.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/news/daniel-hunt:
Media Relations Team,                        29 July 2025
A paramedic science student who single handedly brought British Sign Language (BSL) and deaf awareness training to hundreds of his fellow students has graduated.
Daniel Hunt organised the training after learning of the potentially life-threatening communication problems faced by deaf people when interacting with healthcare workers.
He wanted to ensure the next generation of healthcare professionals, including paramedics, nurses, physiotherapists and midwives, were equipped with sign language skills to enable them to communicate more effectively with deaf patients and improve care.
Throughout his three-year degree, Daniel collaborated with the Centre for Deaf and Hard of Hearing People in Bristol to arrange dozens of professional training sessions delivered by deaf instructors for more than 500 fellow students at Glenside campus.
The training he introduced has now become a permanent fixture on the BSc (Hons) Paramedic Science programme, meaning student paramedics will benefit from the vital training for years to come.
It is understood to be the only paramedic science course in the country with a compulsory deaf awareness training component.
Daniel, who now works as a paramedic for South Western Ambulance Service, said: “In healthcare, and particularly the ambulance service, we're going out to people in a real time of need and in emergency situations.
It's often a crisis for them and it makes it so much worse when we can't communicate effectively.
“This training can really make a difference for both the clinician and the patient.
“When we first introduced the training, the sessions exploded in popularity.
The training was delivered by deaf trainers and deaf organisations, so it was really impactful.
“UWE has recognised the success of the training and made it permanent in the paramedic programme, with the potential to extend it to midwifery and optometry courses too.
That's really important because it’s prompted lasting change for healthcare students.
That’s amazing and that's the thing I'm most proud of.”
"Dan’s work to improve deaf awareness across UWE and beyond reflects his unwavering commitment to ensuring that patients do feel seen, heard and understood."
Julian Simpson, Senior Lecturer in Paramedic Science at UWE Bristol
Daniel, who is not deaf or hard of hearing, became interested in BSL several years ago through his love of languages.
When he began university, he founded the British Sign Language student society .
The society quickly became popular, and Daniel approached the Centre for Deaf and Hard of Hearing People for help to deliver deaf awareness training.
The 38-year-old, from Fishponds, said: “I started learning sign language and as I made friends in the deaf community, it unlocked a whole new community of people for me.
“Talking to them about my work as a paramedic student and listening to their stories of where they've struggled to access the health service or had bad experiences, I felt the two were really interconnected and I had a responsibility to try and influence people and encourage people to improve their deaf awareness.
I wanted to be an advocate for the deaf community.”
Daniel left school with no GCSEs and worked for as a postman for 10 years before entering higher education, even delivering letters to Glenside campus as part of his postal round.
He graduated with a first class honours degree at the Bristol Beacon , watched by proud members of his family.
Offering advice to prospective university students, Daniel said: “It’s never too late to retrain and you shouldn't write yourself off.
People said I was a bit old for university and that it might be a bit much for me.
It’s true that it’s very competitive but if you apply yourself, it's doable.
“The academic stuff might seem quite scary but there's loads of support out there to get you through it.
For me, university was more than just the academic side – I really enjoyed the social side of things as well.”
Mark Gill, Community Development Officer at the Centre for Deaf and Hard of Hearing People (CfD) , said: “From our first meeting with Dan, it was clear that he was committed to improving the experience of deaf people who are under the care of healthcare professionals.
“Dan is a hugely committed and passionate person, working tirelessly to improve equality if and where he can.
His work will guide and inform the future of healthcare for deaf and hard of hearing people.
The CfD and the deaf community will forever be indebted to him.”
Julian Simpson, programme leader for the paramedic science course at UWE Bristol when Daniel was studying for his degree, said: “Dan has made an extraordinary impact during his time as a student.
His creation of the BSL society and course has not only enhanced the paramedic curriculum but has also shifted our cultural understanding of accessibility in healthcare.
“Dan has demonstrated a true understanding of something that lies at the very heart of healthcare – the art of medicine.
This is not just about clinical skills but about generosity and building meaningful human connections in a person’s time of need.
“Dan’s work to improve deaf awareness across UWE and beyond reflects his unwavering commitment to ensuring that patients do feel seen, heard and understood.
“Dan’s legacy is not only a permanent part of our paramedic curriculum, but a powerful reminder of the kind of practitioner we all aspire to be.
We are all very proud of him.”
27 November 2024
Broadcaster and writer Carol Vorderman MBE has been awarded an honorary degree by UWE Bristol.
26 November 2024
Steve Taylor, Chief Executive of the Cabot Learning Federation (CLF), has been awarded an honorary doctorate by UWE Bristol.
25 November 2024
Nearly 3,400 students will celebrate their academic achievements at UWE Bristol’s autumn Graduation ceremonies taking place this week (25-28 November) at the Bristol Beacon.
29 July 2024
A student who has dedicated his time at UWE Bristol to helping people with disabilities has graduated.
25 July 2024
Rosa Hui MBE DL, founder of the Chinese Community Wellbeing Society (CCWS), has been awarded an honorary doctorate by UWE Bristol.
23 July 2024
Entrepreneur Levi Roots has been awarded an Honorary Doctor of Letters by UWE Bristol recognising his commitment to future generations and the city of Bristol.
Bristol Bears rugby player Amber Reed has been given an Honorary Degree by UWE Bristol for tackling mental health stigma in sport.
The College of Health, Science and Society is a large, diverse and dynamic part of the University, bringing together experts from Health and Social Wellbeing, Applied Sciences, Education and Social Sciences
The School of Health and Social Wellbeing is home to all our courses and research related to this varied and rewarding sector.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/news/industry-awards:
Recent illustration graduates Ripley Gosling and Chloe Duncan won prizes at New Designers - an annual exhibition in London that brings together the best graduate design talent from across the UK.
The two students took the top spot in two out of five categories of the GF Smith x New Designers awards.
Chloe won best zine collection for her concertina books exploring nature in Bristol.
Ripley won Best Technical Application of Paper for ‘Colours of the Silk Road’, a series of interactive books that explores the historical origins of colours and how they became artists’ pigments.
Each book explores a different location, colour, and paper engineering technique.
Esme Whitton has just completed her degree in Fashion Textiles and won the Liberty Fabrics Design Studio Award at TEX+ 2025 - a prestigious national event celebrating the best new textile designers from across the country.
Esme's project stood out for its bold concept, technical strength, and striking visual style.
Inspired by The Yellow Wallpaper , a 19th-century feminist short story by Charlotte Perkins Gilman, Esme’s work reimagines traditional floral wallpaper prints in unexpected and unsettling ways.
As the patterns warp and stretch, they become increasingly abstract, creating an eerie visual journey through print.
The prize gives Esme access to a three-month Liberty mentorship programme with access to the Design Studio and renowned Liberty Print Archive.
Dr Jacqueline Butler , Dean and Head of School of Arts , said: “We are delighted that the talents of Ripley, Chloe and Esme have been recognised at such a high level.
Attending these events gives our students an incredible opportunity to showcase their creative talents to industry representatives, making contacts that can launch their careers.
We’re incredibly proud of their achievements and excited to see where their creative journeys take them next.”
Professor Mark Bould and Professor Charlotte Crofts are featured in a new documentary about the fascinating journey of the former Bristol IMAX cinema.
17 April 2025
Spike Island – the home to UWE Bristol’s BA and MA Fine Art courses - opens its doors for the annual Open Studios on 2 May.
04 April 2025
UWE Bristol and Bristol Creative Industries (BCI) have formed a new partnership to support Bristol’s thriving creative businesses and provide enhanced careers opportunities to students entering the industry.
03 April 2025
A new £3.6m laboratory has opened at UWE Bristol which will provide a unique arts, humanities and technologies multi-disciplinary space for researchers, entrepreneurs and businesses across the West of England.
07 March 2025
Students bring creativity and a splash of colour to a well-used city underpass by painting a new mural celebrating diversity and inclusivity.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/news/izzy-thorpe-bronze-medal:
Media Relations Team,                        28 July 2025
The 24-year-old from Westbury on Trym picked up the medal in the free mixed duet category at the international competition in Singapore, while her UWE Bristol graduation ceremony took place almost 7,000 miles away at the Bristol Beacon on Friday (25 July).
This was the sixth senior World Championships that Izzy has attended and the first time she competed in the free mixed duet.
It follows her historic win at the Paris Olympics last year where she secured GB’s first-ever Olympic medal in the sport alongside her competing partner Kate Shortman, winning a silver medal.
Izzy, who was competing with her swimming partner Ranjuo Tomblin at the championships, said: “I’m honoured to have been selected to represent my country on the world stage again and particularly in the same year as completing my degree.
“I am very happy to have come away from this world championships with a bronze medal particularly after coming fourth two days before in the technical event!
I’ve really enjoyed this season training and competing with Ranjuo, it has been different to last season particularly as I have been able to complete my final year of uni whilst still training up for world championships.”
Izzy has balanced studies for her sports rehabilitation degree with her training and reflected on her time at UWE Bristol saying: “My time at UWE has been very enjoyable, and challenging at times with the commitment to both swimming and studying.
I’ve received great support from my lecturers, particularly during competition times or periods of intense training.
They were always very understanding and helped me where they could.
“I’ve learnt a lot studying at UWE not only with my degree but in other aspects of life as well.
One of the main things for me is I’ve learnt how important a good balance is, to make sure I’m achieving the most I can while also ensuring my happiness and wellbeing is a priority.”
Izzy’s course cohort are some of the almost 6,000 students currently accepting their UWE Bristol degrees over a fortnight of ceremonies (21-31 July).
Now she’s completed her degree, Izzy has her sights set on competing at the LA Olympics 2028.
She continued: “It’s reassuring knowing that if anything impacts my swimming career, I now have my degree as well.”
The Rt Revd Vivienne Faull has been awarded an Honorary Degree by UWE Bristol in recognition of her pioneering work promoting roles for women within the church.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/news/broadcaster-awarded-honorary-degree:
Media Relations Team,                        22 July 2025
The broadcaster and presenter received an Honorary Doctor of Arts degree in recognition of her outstanding contribution to broadcasting in radio and television, and her advocacy for representation and diversity within the media.
The University conferred the honour on Monday 21 July, as part of the University’s graduation ceremonies held at Bristol Beacon.
Angellica graduated from UWE Bristol in 1996, earning a BA (Hons) in Politics.
She went on to forge a highly successful broadcasting career as the face of Children’s BBC (CBBC) until the end of 2007.
During this time, she was twice shortlisted for the Best Presenter category at the Children’s BAFTAs.
At CBBC, she became well-known for presenting live continuity links on BBC One and for hosting nostalgic children’s shows such as K Club, Short Change, 50/50, That’s Genius, and The Saturday Show.
Successfully transitioning to mainstream television, Angellica has since co-presented and reported for The One Show on BBC One, fronted the RHS Chelsea Flower Show, hosted consumer series Ill Gotten Gains, and presented the BAFTA-nominated financial programme The Martin Lewis Money Show on ITV.
A major highlight of her career was winning Celebrity MasterChef in 2017, which led to her first cookbook aimed at young people: Fantastic Eats and How to Cook Them!, published in 2019.
In April 2025, Angellica appeared on Celebrity Big Brother, celebrating 25 years since her CBBC debut while participating as a housemate.
Angellica has many more incredible achievements to her name.
She spent five weeks in Arctic conditions filming 71 Degrees North for ITV; sailed around the British Isles on a Volvo 65 yacht for The One Show, raising over £1 million for Sport Relief; and with only eight weeks of preparation, completed the most demanding section of the Tour de France.
As well as being a stalwart in British broadcasting, Angellica actively contributes to public life.
She has served as a school governor, a patron and ambassador for several charitable organisations, and has recently become a member of the Development Council for the National Windrush Museum , supporting the preservation and celebration of the history and culture of British Windrush settlers.
And, as an alumna of UWE Bristol, she has maintained a strong connection to the University, returning to share her expertise with students through masterclasses in journalism, offering them invaluable insights into storytelling and its power to effect meaningful change.
On receiving her honorary degree, Angellica said: “It is truly an honour and privilege to receive this Honorary Doctorate from the university.
I fondly remember my student days in Bristol as a period of personal growth and exploration.
Since then I've been back to the city for numerous filming assignments and each time it solidifies just how much the place means to me.
To be recognised for my career and paving the way for others is humbling.
Thank you.”
Lynn Barlow, Assistant Vice-Chancellor for Creative and Cultural Industries Engagement, and orator at the ceremony added: “We’re proud to honour Angellica as an accomplished alumna who exemplifies the values we hold dear at UWE Bristol: inclusion, inspiration, and a commitment to societal impact.
“There is no doubt her achievements will continue to be an inspiration to the next generation of broadcasters.”
The UWE Bristol graduation ceremonies take place between Monday 21 July and Thursday 31 July.
Angellica is one of a number of people being celebrated with honorary degrees in recognition of outstanding achievements in their chosen fields.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/news/summer-graduation-2025:
Media Relations Team,                        21 July 2025
Nearly 6,000 UWE Bristol students will celebrate their academic achievements at the University’s Graduation ceremonies over the next two weeks (21-31 July).
Undergraduate and postgraduate students from across UWE Bristol’s three colleges will bring around 20,000 guests with them to the city to cheer them on as they cross the stage at the Bristol Beacon.
UWE Bristol has also announced a number of individuals who will be receiving Honorary Degrees during the summer Graduation ceremonies.
The recipients are being recognised for their outstanding achievements in the field.
They include:
Angellica Bell , broadcaster and presenter - Honorary Doctor of Arts in recognition of her contribution and commitment to broadcasting in radio and television, and for championing representation and diversity in the media.
Mel Rodrigues, Chief Executive Officer, Creative Access - Honorary Doctor of Arts in recognition of her long-held passion to drive equity, diversity and inclusion forward in creative and tangible ways in the Screen Industries.
Captain Hermione Jayne Irwin Munns, commercial pilot - Honorary Doctor of Engineering in recognition of her contribution to gender equality work and her role as a researcher, gender champion and role model across the aviation industry.
Subitha Baghirathan, health equity activist and researcher - Honorary Doctor of Science in recognition of her continued work, activism, applied research and contribution to the public health and wellbeing of visibly minority ethnic (VME) communities, reducing inequalities in health and ensuring equitable access to health, promoting services across Bristol, North Somerset & South Gloucestershire (BNSSG).
Michael Carter, former Director of People & Organisational Development at Avon & Somerset Police - Honorary Master of Education in recognition of his service as long-standing Head of Learning at Avon and Somerset Police and his key role in designing and adopting the new Police Education Qualification Framework (PCQF).
Julia Gray, Principal and CEO of City of Bristol College - Honorary Doctor of Education in recognition of her contribution to the further education of young people and adults of Bristol and the West of England region and the wider societal impact.
Tanisha Hicks-Beresford, Head of Citizenship, English teacher and EDI Lead for Cathedral Schools Trust - Honorary Master of Education in recognition of her wide-ranging, collaborative and impactful contributions to inclusive, anti-racist education, scholarship and practice for the benefit of children and young people, and the teaching profession.
Peter Fane, Executive Chairman at The Nurture Landscapes Group - Honorary Doctor of Business Administration in recognition of his commitment to supporting, recognising and nurturing enterprise skills and an entrepreneurial mindset in both UWE students and alumni and his outstanding entrepreneurial career and dedication to sustainability policies and practices.
Daryn Carter MBE , Director of Programming and Partnerships at Bristol Pride - Honorary Doctor of Business Administration in recognition of his service to the LGBTQ+ community in Bristol.
UWE Bristol Vice Chancellor, Professor Sir Steve West said: “We’re so proud of our graduating students for all they’ve achieved while studying at UWE Bristol.
This is a time for celebrating those achievements with those closest to them and we wish them the best of luck for their next chapter.
“It’s wonderful to also be able to award individuals close to our University community with Honorary Degrees.
These are people who have made a significant impact on the lives of others both in Bristol and beyond and those who act as a source of inspiration for our students.”

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/news/new-social-change-research:
Media Relations Team,                        17 July 2025
A new UK study suggests a deeper understanding of social change could help close the gap between challenges and actions, especially on issues like climate change.
Published online in the Journal of Community Psychology , the study, led by Dr Miles Thompson at the University of the West of England (UWE Bristol) and Dr Ben Rosser at Liverpool John Moores University, found:
“Expanding the way we think and talk about social change may mean we can act differently in the future as we try and tackle the critical challenges of our time,” said Dr Miles Thompson.
“The results of this research emphasise that social changes – positive, negative and neutral – are happening all around us.
Communities continue to fight for rights and equity, and at the same time, social changes are also happening in terms of the impact of technology, changes to wider social behaviour, as well as larger national or global political events.
By moving beyond blanket definitions of social change, we can sharpen our frameworks and understanding of the unprecedented social changes we need now to tackle the climate and wider ecological emergencies.”
The study asked participants to both produce and later respond to self-generated examples of social change in an effort to gain a deeper understanding of what social changes are and what they mean.
The research was conducted in two stages:
In stage one, participants generated their own examples of social changes in answer to the prompt: ‘list as many concrete examples of significant social change from the past two hundred years that you can think of’.
Nearly 200 participants provided examples of social change which were reduced to 52 individual statements.
The researchers arranged the examples under four overarching themes:
In stage two, a further 200 participants rated each of the examples in terms of whether they were a significant social change, and whether they were positive, neutral or negative.
On average, participants felt that all 52 examples were significant social changes.
However, not all were seen as positive.
Averaging across the themes, ‘Legal protections, rights, and equality’ examples were seen as being highly positive.
Examples from ‘Technological impacts’ and ‘Societal beliefs and behaviour’ examples were rated less positively – but still sat on the positive side of the scale.
While examples from ‘Global and domestic political events and governance’ were generally rated the least positively of all.
While academics and activists may both talk about the need for social change and aspire to bring it about, these aspirations can sometimes be framed in very general terms.
The authors hope the results from this study offer a new framework to think about social change in a more nuanced way: a tool for those wanting to bring about the positive social changes of the future.
In terms of possible next steps, each of the social change examples from this study provides a potential case study to understand more about how each came about.
“The social changes of the past can provide blueprints to adapt and reapply now and in the future,” said Dr Miles Thompson.
“Knowing more about the different events that produced past changes both individually and across themes, may increase our ability to anticipate and mitigate barriers to future change.
This might be especially important in terms of helping to bring about the rapid transformations international organisations, like the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, say are required from all of us in the face of climate change.”
YouTube video created by UWE Bristol New Wave Creative Agency with thanks to alumni Phoebe Ryall and Nathan Caffley .

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/events/ice-cream-van-glenside:
Show your student ID for a free ice cream – a little way to say Welcome to UWE Bristol!
Come down to the ice cream van at Glenside Campus to get yours.
Grab it while you can - ice creams are limited to one per person and, once they're gone, they're gone.
Outside the Eye Clinic Glenside Campus Blackberry Hill Bristol BS16 1DD UK
Sat 13 September 2025, 12:00
X Block Plaza, Frenchay Campus
Sun 14 September 2025, 11:00
Sun 14 September 2025, 14:00
Tue 16 September 2025, 11:00
Car park 9 by Library, Glenside Campus
Tue 16 September 2025, 14:00
Mon 22 September 2025, 11:00
Between C and D blocks, City Campus at Bower Ashton
Mon 22 September 2025, 14:00
Thu 02 October 2025, 12:00

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/events/international-business-management-postgraduate-webinar:
MSc International Business Management
Join our live webinar and meet programme leaders from our MSc International Business Management .
You’ll find out about the course as well as how a postgraduate international business management qualification could help you reach your goals.
The webinar will include a short presentation about the course followed by a Q&A session.
Key facts about the course:
Tue 02 September 2025, 17:00
Wed 03 September 2025, 08:00
Wed 03 September 2025, 17:00
Mon 08 September 2025, 10:00
Tue 09 September 2025, 08:00
Join our live webinar and meet programme leaders from our Master of Business Administration.
Tue 09 September 2025, 17:00
Fri 12 September 2025, 15:00
Come along to our webinar to find out more about our MSc Medical Ultrasound course.
Mon 15 September 2025, 08:00
Join our live webinar and meet programme leaders from our MSc Finance and Investment.
Mon 15 September 2025, 17:00
Mon 22 September 2025, 08:00
Join our live webinar and meet programme leaders from our our MSc Accounting and Finance course.
Mon 22 September 2025, 10:00
Join our live webinar and meet programme leaders from our MSc Building Information Modelling in Design, Construction and Operations.
Mon 22 September 2025, 12:00
Join our live webinar and meet programme leaders from our Doctor of Biomedical Sciences course.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/events/international-business-management-postgraduate-webinar-1:
Tue 02 September 2025, 08:00

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/events/business-management-postgraduate-webinar-2:
MSc Business Management
Join our live webinar and meet programme leaders from our MSc Business Management courses.
You’ll find out about the courses as well as how a postgraduate business management qualification could help you reach your goals.
The webinar will include a short presentation about the courses followed by a Q&A session.
Courses included:
Key facts about the courses:

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/events/showcase-ma-degree-show-2025:
A celebration of advanced creative practice.
Celebrate the exceptional work of our talented graduates.
We’re thrilled to share the work of this year's graduating students from MA Fine Art, MA Graphic Arts and MA Multi-Disciplinary Printmaking.
The MA Degree Show is an annual highlight for the University and city of Bristol, and we welcome you to discover a new generation of talent.
Our MA Degree Show combines an exhibition at Spike Island with a digital showcase .
Download our MA Degree Show digital map to help you find your way to the exhibition.
The m2 metrobus runs along Cumberland Road and past Spike Island.
Use the SS Great Britain stop.
On street parking is available outside Spike Island and is free for up to 30 minutes.
Parking for longer than 30 minutes costs £1 per hour for up to 3 hours, and applies between 10:00-16:30 on Monday to Friday, and 09:00-19:00 on Saturdays.
A pay and display car park is also available just off Gas Ferry Road.
A bus gate is in operation on Cumberland Road which prohibits vehicles other than buses, taxis, e-scooters and bikes from travelling east from Spike Island, towards the city centre.
Spike Island City Campus 133 Cumberland Road Bristol BS1 6UX UK

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/events/school-of-arts-postgraduate-drop-in-1:
School of Arts
Postgraduate Open Events
Curious about where a creative postgraduate degree could take you?
Join us at Spike Island for our School of Arts postgraduate drop-in event and meet the Programme Leaders behind our MA courses:
Whether you're refining your practice, switching creative direction or exploring further study, this informal event is your chance to ask questions, meet our academic staff and discover what makes our postgraduate community distinctive.
You'll also be able to explore Showcase, our annual MA Degree Show, which features work by 50 graduating students.
Held at Spike Island and accompanied by a digital Showcase , it is a vibrant celebration of emerging talent and creative innovation.
Find out more about travelling to our City Campus sites for an Open Day.
Open Days travel and parking
Thu 27 November 2025, 11:00
Join our live webinar and meet programme leaders from our MSc Information Technology course.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/events/glenside-campus-tours:
Join us for campus tours kicking off from the Glenside Library at 16:30 and at 17:30.
After the tours, stick around for free pizza and a relaxed chance to chat with your new flatmates.
We’re excited to welcome you to UWE Bristol and look forward to helping you settle in.
See you soon!
Glenside Library Glenside Campus Blackberry Hill Bristol BS16 1DD UK
Sat 13 September 2025, 14:30
Campus tours: Get to know Glenside Campus with the Student Life Team.
Sun 14 September 2025, 17:30
Karaoke and pizza night – Let’s make it legendary!
Wed 17 September 2025, 17:00
Purdown View HUB, Frenchay Campus
Support and information about drugs, including alcohol.
Thu 18 September 2025, 17:30
3S501, S Block, Frenchay Campus
Join Student Life for a fun-filled evening of mug painting!
Fri 19 September 2025, 18:00
Marketgate, Bond Street
A welcome event for our students in city centre accommodation.
Sat 20 September 2025, 15:30
Purdown View Student Hub, Frenchay Campus
LGBTQIA+ community and allies.
A safe and inclusive environment for all of our students.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/events/bubble-tea-and-board-games:
with the Student Life Team
Student Life Hub
Come chill with us for an evening of great games, awesome vibes, and a free bubble tea on us!
Bring your competitive spirit or just swing by to make new friends and sip something sweet.
Disabled parking: Yes – on campus
Step-free access: Yes
Automatic doors: Yes
Accessible toilets: Yes
Induction loop: No
Guide/ assistance dog-friendly: Yes
Quiet spaces available: Yes<
The Students' Union at UWE, Glenside Campus
Say hello to student-friendly organisations, sign up to societies, see what our sports clubs have to offer and bag yourself some freebies!
Glenside Students' Union, Glenside Campus
Tue 23 September 2025, 16:30
Glenside Campus Library, Glenside Campus
Join Student Life at an early afternoon tea party and make new friends.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/events/applied-wildlife-conservation-postgraduate-webinar-2:
MSc Applied Wildlife Conservation
Join our live webinar and meet programme leaders from our MSc Applied Wildlife Conservation .
You’ll find out about the course as well as how a postgraduate applied wildlife conservation qualification could help you reach your goals.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/events/centre-for-biomedical-research-conference:
Centre for Biomedical Research (CBR)
We are excited to announce that the next Centre for Biomedical Research Conference will take place on Monday 8 September 2025 in EP1, UWE Bristol Frenchay Campus.
This event will be a great opportunity to bring together staff and students to network, showcase their research, develop new collaborations and further enhance our research community.
All staff and students are very welcome to attend.
If your research aligns to one of the centre's three themes below, we invite you to submit an expression of interest to present your work as a poster or a talk.
The three themes of the Centre for Biomedical Research are:
To submit your expression of interest, please use the Register Now button on this page.
The conference programme is being finalised and will be available nearer the time of the conference.
All are welcome to this conference; please register to attend.
Enterprise Park 1 (EP1) UWE Bristol Frenchay Campus Coldharbour Lane Bristol BS16 1QY
World-class research in the fields of biomedicine, plant science, bio-sensing technology and environmental science.
The School of Applied Sciences is active in many areas of research and has established research projects attracting funding from various bodies, both in the UK and abroad.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/life/activities/sport/timetables/search-results:
Showing 1 - 12 of 111 results
Monday: 07:45 - 09:45
Centre for Sport, Frenchay Campus
There's no coach, so just book on, turn up and play some volleyball!
Monday: 08:00 - 09:00
University of Bristol Pool, Richmond Building, City centre
A joint social swim session with the University of Bristol.
Monday: 09:30 - 10:55
These sessions do not have a coach present but the court will be set up, so book on, turn up and play!
Monday: 11:00 - 11:45
The Gym, Centre for Sport, Frenchay Campus
Join our friendly instructor for an introduction to using free weights safely in the gym.
Monday: 11:30 - 00:00
Sports hall, Centre for Sport, Frenchay Campus
A version of football with an emphasis on improvisation, creativity and technique using a smaller, heavier ball.
Monday: 12:15 - 13:00
MOVE Studio, Purdown View, Frenchay Campus
A mind-body workout improving your strength and flexibility.
Monday: 12:15 - 14:15
Studio 1, Centre for Sport, Frenchay Campus
Promoting fitness and strength for perimenopausal and menopausal women while managing some of the symptoms of menopause.
Monday: 12:30 - 14:30
Monday: 13:00 - 13:55
BarreX® is a ballet-based fitness class that uses ballet to help improve strength, flexibility, posture and overall fitness.
Monday: 13:30 - 14:10
Immerse yourself in a virtual reality experience, with movement, adventure, and relaxation themed games.
Monday: 13:30 - 14:30

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/study/academic-information:
Advice about assessments, including types of assessment, resit information, and marks and feedback.
Guidance on module options and online module evaluation.
Information about how your degree classification is calculated and how to estimate it yourself.
The total number of years allowed to complete your programme, including any breaks or delays in your studies.
Key terms used around learning, teaching and assessment methods across the University.
Academic regulations are there to assure our academic standards and ensure all our students are treated consistently and equitably.
Support processes to help you if you’re facing difficult circumstances.
Advice for changing direction, including accrediting prior learning.
How to apply for replacement or certified copies of certificates.
Information on how to ask for academic references/verifications and other letters.
View results publication dates for undergraduate and postgraduate award boards.
Information about the process and how to submit an appeal.
Read UWE Bristol's principles for guidance on using generative AI in learning, teaching and assessment.
Academic Appeals Policy
Student conduct policy
Details of UWE Bristol term times and key dates for the current and future academic years.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/study/study-support:
Support to help you study, including referencing, academic writing and reading, and IT.
Information on the assistive technologies and software that the University provides.
Our Academic Personal Tutors support you for the duration of your course and help with personal and academic development.
College-specific online study support and one-to-one help tailored to your subject.
Find out more about Peer Assisted Learning (PAL) at UWE Bristol, including how to apply to become a PAL Mentor and PAL events.
Our coaches can help support your university experience outside of the classroom, from balancing your home and student life to building confidence or even changing direction.
Learn how the Student Support Advisers can help you, including the process for getting support.
There are a number of ways you can get support from the library, such as talking to us at helpdesks, using our online chat service, booking 1:1s or attending workshops.
Download the UWE Bristol app for quick and easy access to Blackboard, your timetable, university email account, campus maps, events, staff contact details and more.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/life/health-and-wellbeing:
We provide the support you need to thrive.
Find out how to access local and campus health services.
If you need somebody to talk to, there is somebody who can help – at any time of day.
Manage your own wellbeing through a range of self-help resources.
Support services, funding and application advice as well as reasonable adjustments.
Find out about places for prayer, worship and private reflection and connect with others.
Ways to get active, how to eat well, quitting smoking, and advice on drugs and alcohol and sexual health.
Ways to speak up if you think someone is at risk and what to do if there is an accident or emergency.
Support services and financial support.
"I have felt really supported by UWE Bristol.
My lecturers and personal tutors have helped me with balancing my life as a carer.
UWE Cares and the Wellbeing Service have been great for support and counselling."
Isla, BA(Hons) History
Hear first hand from our student mental health nurses, who offer their top ten tips for good mental health.
Everything you need to know about the start of term, including what teaching will look like, Starting Block and registration.
Eating well, getting active, finding ways to relax and trying new things all encourage a healthy mind and body.
University life can be busy and when we are busy it can feel like we don't have time to relax and take care of ourselves.
But, it is really important to take some time to focus on your wellbeing.
Challenging yourself with something new, and connecting with others with similar interests, can be a great way to improve your sense of wellbeing.
Not only can exercise keep us physically healthy, but it is also great way to manage stress and boost our mood.
From Buddha bowls to water refill stations, our campuses offer a range of healthy food and drink options.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/life/money-and-finance:
Helpful advice on how to manage your money from useful budgeting tools and getting part-time work, to help with dealing with debt.
Bursaries, loans and schemes offering support to current students at UWE Bristol.
Information about fee status, tuition fee costs and how to pay as a UK or international student.
Tuition and maintenance fee information for applicants, including details about the financial support available at UWE Bristol.
Apply for additional funds from UWE Bristol, seek advice from our Student Money Advisers about student funding, and get support with managing your money.
Work out your budget and learn how to manage costs while you study.
We know that times are tough at the moment.
We're here to offer support if you’re struggling.
Information about choosing and opening a UK bank account as an international student.
If personal debt becomes a problem, we're here to help.
Tips on finding safe ways to borrow money that protect your rights and future.
An online tool to help you to learn financial skills and make the most of your time as a student.
Important visa and tax information if you're working part time while you study.
What happens to your student loan, bank accounts and finances when you graduate.
Learn about common scams.
how to avoid them and stay safe as a student.
Funding and Student Finance information for full-time undergraduate students.
Apply for the hardship grants we provide for students facing severe financial difficulty and funding for extra-curricular activities through student experience grants.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/about/contact-us:
Contact information for key services at UWE Bristol.
How to report crimes, security incidents or suspicious behaviour on UWE Bristol campuses.
Information about the complaints process and the different stages involved.
How to contact our campus security team to find out about lost property.
Information and guidance on freedom of information requests to UWE Bristol.
Provide feedback about the UWE Bristol website or report a website-related problem.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/life/campus-and-facilities/information-points/student-id-cards:
UWE Bristol’s student ID cards act as proof of your student status and entitle you to access and use campus facilities, such as our libraries.
You should always keep your card with you while you are on a UWE Bristol campus.
We can only print your ID card if you have added your photo to MYUWE .
To avoid delays, upload your photo as soon as you receive login details.
For help, go to our student card guidance .
To make sure your card can be printed, upload your photo at least two working days before collection.
Collect your ID card from the campus where you study, unless advised otherwise.
You will need photo identification to collect your UWE Bristol ID card.
For example, your:
Frenchay
Thursday 11 – Friday 26 September
Z Block foyer
Information Point opening hours
Glenside
Monday 1 September onwards
Glenside reception (1B29)
Glenside reception opening hours
Bower Ashton
Monday 15 September onwards
Information Point (0B16)
Arnolfini
Information Point (fourth floor)
For registration support, please visit the UWE Bristol registration page .
Please report lost, or stolen ID cards immediately to our Security Team so that the card can be disabled.
If you have found a lost card please hand it into one of our Information Points or the Security Office at Frenchay Campus – room 1E20.
If your existing card is lost or stolen, you can order a replacement card via the Online Store .
Once you have made your request via the Online Store, please visit any Information Point during office hours for the card to be printed while you wait.
It will not be posted to your address.
If you believe your card to be faulty or it is not giving you the correct access, please visit any Information Point for this to be looked at.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/about/services/finance-services/ways-to-pay:
How to make tuition fee and accommodation payments to the University.
Please review the UWE Bristol tuition fee policy , Money Matters Guide (PDF) and Student Debt Policy (PDF) .
Pay tuition fees (Flywire)
Pay accommodation invoice (Flywire)
Find more information about paying for UWE Bristol accommodation .
The Income Operations team is not responsible for the calculation of your rent.
If you believe your charges are incorrect, please contact the Accommodation team:
You do not need to set up a payment plan if you are funded by the Student Finance.
They will pay your fees directly to the University.
If you are experiencing a delay please inform creditcontrol@uwe.ac.uk .
If you are not using a student loan, the normal tuition fee payment plan will apply:
1 November to 1 April for September enrolment
1 March to 1 August for January enrolment.
For information about how to set up your Direct Debit or recurring card payment, see Set up instalment payments .
If you are in receipt of a Postgraduate Loan and would like to pay in instalments, please:
Income Operations will then set up a payment plan in line with the dates on your loan schedule and email you a payment schedule in advance.
If you are not paying using a Student Loan, the normal six months tuition fee payment plan will apply:
Failure to submit a loan schedule to Income Operations will automatically enrol you on a six-month plan or payment will be due in full if a Direct Debit or recurring card payment method has not been set up.
If the minimum payment has not been paid by the end of registration you may be withdrawn.
Paying by Direct Debit allows the University to collect directly from a UK bank account and is our preferred option.
We will email you the instalment amounts once the Direct Debit has been set up by Income Operations.
Payments will be collected automatically.
The Direct Debit mandate will be zero.
Direct Debit - Tuition
Direct Debit - Accommodation
Direct Debits are subject to deadlines and take 10 working days to set up once the University sends the instruction to your bank.
Failure to set up a Direct Debit in time for the first instalment will result in your instalments being reduced, e.g.
a six-month plan will be reduced to a five-month plan.
Paying by recurring card payment allows the University to collect directly from a credit/debit card.
We will email you the Instalment amounts once the recurring payment has been set up by the Income Operations team.
Recurring card payment
If you have a card payment plan for tuition and accommodation payments, you can update your card details using the following link.
We cannot update credit card details over the phone.
If you are changing to a different card provider you will need to set up a new recurring card payment.
Update your card details
If you have a Direct Debit agreement or recurring card payment set up with us, please email any enquiries to instalments@uwe.ac.uk .
We are unable to provide receipts after a payment has been made.
However, by making an online payment you would receive an automatic e-mail/receipt at the time of payment.
You can also download a receipt from your Flywire account.
Payments made by Direct Debit or recurring card will show payments on your bank statement.
For payment queries, please use the self-help form .
Income Operations self-help form
For queries relating to unpaid amounts on invoices and debts, please contact the Credit Control Team at creditcontrol@uwe.ac.uk .
UWE Bristol is fully committed to complying with the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards (PCI DSS), and as such, individuals can be assured that their cardholder data is processed and handled in a secure manner.
Students are being approached by individuals offering to pay their fees at reduced rates or under special conditions.
Fraudsters may present themselves as legitimate agencies or associates or they may be a friend.
Never respond to these offers.
Always pay your tuition fees direct to UWE Bristol using the authorised payment methods outlined on this web page.
For more information, view these leaflets produced by the police in English and Mandarin .
If you believe you have been a victim of fraud or have any questions, contact financecompliance@uwe.ac.uk or sms@uwe.ac.uk .
Students experiencing difficulty making payment should contact credit control at creditcontrol@uwe.ac.uk .
Information on how to pay tuition fees for full and part-time home/EU and offshore students.
Information for international students on how to pay tuition deposit.
Budgeting for accommodation is easier when you know what to expect – here's our guide to getting your new home sorted.
Information for if your fees are being paid by an employer or other sponsor.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/life/health-and-wellbeing/access-health-services/register-with-a-doctor:
You need to register with a doctor's surgery before you can make an appointment.
We strongly recommend that you register with a local general practitioner (GP) within the first couple of weeks of arriving at university, even if you do not feel ill.
This is to make it easier to see a doctor when you need to, as GPs are often unable to give appointments to people not registered at their surgery, except in a real emergency.
You can choose whether to register at the University Health Centre or at another GP practice local to where you live.
Located on Frenchay Campus, The University Health Centre is there to provide accessible healthcare for everyone working or studying at the University.
All UWE Bristol students and members of staff can register with us.
If you are registered with the Old School Surgery in Fishponds, you do not need to re-register at the University Health Centre.
You will be registered at both surgeries.
If you would like to register with another local practice, you can search for a health service on the NHS website and ask to register with them.
You will usually be asked to complete a short application form or health questionnaire, and you may be asked to provide proof of identity.
When you register, you will be removed from your current doctor's practice list and all your records will be transferred to us.
You will need to register with your previous doctor as a temporary patient if you want to consult them sometimes, such as during holidays when you return home.
Please complete the online registration form to register with the University Health Centre/Old School Surgery.
If you have any queries about registration, please contact us .
Find out how to book an appointment with the University Health Centre .
Follow the instructions provided by your chosen surgery to register.
The Old School Surgery offers Klinik , an online service allowing you to contact the surgery with your medical query, including appointment requests and repeat prescriptions.
You can access Klinik via the Old School Surgery website.
You can also use your NHS app log in to access Klink once you are registered with the University Health Centre/Old School Surgery.
Some GP surgeries use Patient Access , an online system that allows you to book GP appointments.
If you register with a different surgery, you will need to check with them whether you can sign up for Patient Access to book appointments.
When you register with the University Health Centre or another local GP, you will be removed from your current doctor's practice list and all your records will be transferred to your new GP.
How to book appointments with your doctor, including information for the University Health Centre.
Information for students, including international and European Union/European Economic Area students, on getting treatment on the NHS.
What you need to do to collect a prescription.
Our wellbeing practitioners are here to support your mental health and personal development needs.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/life/campus-and-facilities/getting-to-and-from-uwe:
It's easy to get around the city by bus and Metrobus.
Bristol Bus Station offers cross-country services and Frenchay Campus has its own Megabus and National Express stop.
Travelwest and First Bus have details of:
The First Bus app includes a journey planner and offers live bus times so you can check when your bus is due in real time.
Download the Travelwest bus checker app for live and scheduled bus times for every bus in the Bristol area.
Free for iPhone, Android and Windows mobile devices.
Details of all timetables and routes can be found on the TravelWest journey planner .
Megabus , FlixBus and National Express provide a very cost-effective service direct to Frenchay Campus from many UK cities and some overseas destinations including London, Cardiff, Birmingham, Exeter, Manchester and Leeds.
Read our travel guidance for undergraduate Open Days.
Named as the UK's first cycling city, Bristol is built for cyclists.
UWE Bristol has benefited greatly from the recent investment in largely traffic-free cycle routes that criss-cross the city.
Cycle parking, lockers, showers and drying areas are available across our campuses.
Please be aware of our procedure for bikes abandoned on UWE Bristol campuses: UWE Bristol abandoned bike procedure (PDF) .
For more information on better ways to travel, take a look at the Travelwest website where you'll find more information about cycling, walking and the e-scooter trial in the Bristol area.
Read UWE Bristol's conditions of use (PDF) for privately owned e-scooters and e-bikes.
There are bike pumps and tool stations on all three campuses.
View a map of Frenchay Campus that has locations of:
Bristol Temple Meads, Bristol Parkway and Filton Abbey Wood railway stations connect you to the rest of the country, as well as local and inter-city services.
The nearest train station to UWE Bristol's Frenchay Campus is Filton Abbey Wood.
It takes around 30 minutes to walk to campus from the station.
There is also a First Bus service that leaves from the station car park.
Bristol Parkway is also close to Frenchay Campus.
There are buses direct to Frenchay Campus or nearby with a short walk.
Bristol Temple Meads is closest to the city centre.
See the National Rail website for further information.
Bristol Airport connects the South West to hundreds of destinations across Europe and the rest of the world.
Located just a few miles south of Bristol's city centre, it's easy to get to and from the airport, 24hrs a day via the Airport Flyer – Bristol Airport's direct bus route.
East entrance (BS16 1QY)
Directions to Frenchay Campus - East entrance (Google Maps)
North entrance (BS34 8QN)
Directions to Frenchay Campus – North entrance (Google Maps)
Directions to Glenside Campus (Google Maps)
Directions to Bower Ashton (Google Maps)
Directions to Spike Island
Directions to Arnolfini
Directions to Watershed
Directions to 4 Portwall Lane
Car parking on our campuses is limited.
Please see our car parking pages for frequently asked questions, charges and guidance for students, staff and visitors .
If you require any help with getting on to any of our campuses or require specific information on areas of disabled access, please contact us:
View information on how to travel to your Awards Ceremony .

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/study/work-experience-jobs-and-placements:
Find essential information to support your job and opportunity search and take your next steps towards your future career.
Knowing where to start when it comes to finding a job isn’t always easy.
Understanding what interests you, and what opportunities are available are all part of this process and will help you in deciding what you want to do and how you’re going to get there.
So, whether it’s more information on how to start looking for a placement or applying for a volunteering opportunity we’re here to help.
Explore opportunities by sector for insights into different industries and view live vacancies.
Harness your passion and creativity to carve out an exciting career in the Arts, Heritage, and Creative Industries.
Explore a world of opportunities in Business and Finance.
Whether you're drawn to numbers, people, strategy, or creativity, there's a career path for you.
Explore a variety of opportunities in Engineering, Technology, and Environment.
Whether you're passionate about innovation, sustainability, or problem-solving, there's a career path for you.
Learn how to identify the values that can shape your career path and research job roles and employers who align with your career goals.
Discover rewarding opportunities in Health and Life Sciences.
Whether you're passionate about patient care, scientific discovery, or community support, there's a career path for you.
Explore a range of opportunities in law and the public sector.
Whether you're drawn to justice, public service, or education, there's a career path for you.
Explore a wide range of opportunities to gain valuable experience and develop your skills.
Whether it's through live projects, internships, office visits, placements or volunteering, you'll find plenty of ways to prepare for the world of work.
Get first-hand experience in your chosen industry and learn valuable skills on the job through a placement experience.
Whether part-time work is about earning extra money or gaining valuable skills and experience, the SU can help find a role that suits you.
Become a PAL Mentor and help other UWE Bristol students with their studies.
Discover what being a UWE Bristol Student Ambassador is all about, and how they can support events and activities on behalf of the university.
Search vacancies on Infohub
Gradlink – career site for international students
Upcoming career events
More events and jobs on Handshake
Resources with specific information on legislation, support, rights at work and equality issues.
An overview of the different types of additional documentation UWE Bristol can provide to support employability activities.
Get in touch with our friendly team if you have any questions about how to access career support during your studies.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/life/global-experiences:
Discover what life’s like studying for a year in a different country or try working for one of our international partners.
There are plenty of volunteering opportunities on offer, whether you want to get involved for a week or a year.
From experiencing different customs and cultures to learning new languages and making lifelong friends – you might even discover a new side to yourself.
There are six, exciting Go Global options at UWE Bristol.
Watch this video for full details and be inspired!
If you have any questions, please email us at goglobal@uwe.ac.uk .
Find out more about global experiences.
UWE Bristol students have the opportunity to gain international experience by studying abroad as part of, or alongside, their studies.
Join a diverse group of students to take part in a unique, exciting and career enhancing leadership development experience.
Take part in exciting international and cultural  exchange experiences, without the need to travel overseas.
We have identified trusted global volunteering providers who offer safe, ethical, good value and positive outcomes for student volunteers and communities.
Where to look for vacancies, opportunities, current advertised jobs and schemes through UWE Bristol.
"I had a great sense of team spirit with the girls that I went with.
We were able to provide each other with a support network and shared common ground in health and social care."
Catherine BSc (Hons) in Nursing (Learning Disabilities)
While studying for her BSc(Hons) in Nursing (Learning Disabilities), Catherine had the chance to swap North Bristol for South Africa - on a volunteering placement.
It's a UWE Bristol based charity supporting educational development in the Madadeni Township, South Africa.
Trainees provide valuable experience for pupils and staff at Madadeni’s six schools by introducing new learning approaches and resources.
What was your experience like?
It added to the confidence, knowledge and ability that I’d gained through my degree.
I realised that the skills I’d learned at UWE Bristol were transferrable - so will help me in the future, wherever I’m based.
I had a great sense of team spirit with the girls that I went with.
We were able to provide each other with a support network and shared common ground in health and social care.
Speak to other students or graduates who’ve already done it.
I’m sure they’d be more than happy to share their experiences, both good and bad.
I'd definitely recommend going global to all UWE Bristol students.
Providing you meet the eligibility criteria, many of our global opportunites can be part-to-fully funded by UWE Bristol via the UWE Bristol Employability Bursary.
A guide for UWE Bristol students studying or working abroad, including useful resources, contacts and checklists.
We are a campaign partner for Universities UK International's (UUKi) Go International: Stand Out campaign.
We have adopted the campaign’s charter detailing principles for UK Universities to increase and diversify the number of students who study, work or volunteer abroad as part of their experience at UWE Bristol.
We have committed to:
Study at UWE Bristol through one of our exchange partners.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/study/final-year:
Information and advice to help you prepare for life after UWE Bristol.
Congratulations, you've almost finished your course!
To make your final few months with us as easy as possible we've put together a list of things you'll need to do before you finish your studies, as well as some useful information to help you prepare for life after university.
Please ensure the following personal details are correct in MYUWE before you receive your results:
You can find out more about certificates and how your degree classification will be calculated.
Follow our IT guidance for graduating students to make sure you've got everything covered:
If you're not sure what you'd like to do once your course finishes, take a look at our online careers resources or book a virtual appointment with one of our careers coaches before you leave.
We're here to help you with your graduate career search or setting up your own business.
Even after you graduate you'll still be able to access our careers services via InfoHub .
Our postgraduate courses can help you fast-track your career, no matter what you studied for your undergraduate degree.
Postgraduate study is more accessible than ever before with a variety of funding and scholarship options available - you might be eligible for a tuition fee discount of 50% on selected courses through our Vice-Chancellors Scholarship .
If you're considering further study and would like to speak to someone about your options, join one of our Online Open Events .
Alumni Connect is our online site linking UWE Bristol students and alumni around the world.
You can find industry experts, professional contacts, and local connections.
Top reasons to use Alumni Connect in your final year:
Register for Alumni Connect now
Up to date information about ceremonies and other graduation activity are on our Graduation Ceremonies pages, and once we are able to provide more information about when your ceremony will take place we will be in touch by email.
Fifteen months after you've graduated, we'll get in touch as part of the Graduate Outcomes survey to find out how you are getting on in your career.
Our Information Points can help you with any questions you have, whether it's before or after you complete your studies.
Call +44 (0)117 32 85678 or email infopoint@uwe.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/study/innovation-and-enterprise:
Whether you want to start your own business or not, being enterprising is crucial to your future success.
For us, enterprise is about being able to identify new opportunities, to think creatively, to be bold and to bring ideas to life.
It's about leadership and innovation, commercial awareness and problem solving, decision making and planning.
It's about having the skills you need to get hired or to set up your own venture.
That's why enterprise is central to what we do and why it is embedded into every course.
And for those of you who want to utilise your enterprising skills to be entrepreneurial, we offer every student at UWE Bristol an opportunity to set up their own venture.
Here's how we can help you hone your enterprising spirit.
From incubation space to develop your venture in a collaborative and supportive environment, to pop-up shops on campus to test your ideas.
A range of funding opportunities to help you get your idea off the ground or take it to the next level, from pitching competitions to start-up scholarships.
Support that includes online resources, business advice clinics, an entrepreneurs' development programme and a team of enterprise advisers.
Workshops, events and activities to explore ideas, build confidence and turn your passions into a livelihood.
Got a great business idea?
We’ll be on hand to help you at every stage of your entrepreneurial journey.
Joining Enactus provides you with the opportunity to make a meaningful difference in the community, whilst gaining the experience, skills and network necessary to build a successful career.
You'll be joining a worldwide network of more than 70,500 other students who are each making their own contribution toward our shared mission of creating a better world.
If you’ve graduated from any UK university in the last three years and are looking to set up or grow your own innovative, high-tech business, we can help you bring your business ideas to life.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/study/it-services:
Scheduled interruptions of IT Services
Different types of interruptions and the periods scheduled for interruptions to services.
We want you to feel confident when using IT at UWE Bristol, whether studying at home, in halls or on campus.
That's why we've developed specific IT help and guidance to ensure that you feel equipped and ready to study.
Advice on choosing a personal computer for UWE Bristol students.
Our Quick Help Guide for getting started with IT at UWE Bristol.
How to contact and get help from IT Services at UWE Bristol.
How to connect to the campus wifi (eduroam).
How to access your student email account at UWE Bristol.
How and where to access the software your need on-campus and at home.
How and where to save your work (OneDrive).
Additional information and support documentation for Computer Science students.
Register your attendance.
Track your engagement with your course.
When you are studying on campus, you may have scheduled activities in student PC labs or want to log in in the open access areas around the University.
How to book a computer, availability by campus, and additional information.
How to print at UWE Bristol.
Top tips and advice to help protect yourself, others, and the University from cyber threats.
Get more information about creating secure passwords and recognizing fraudulent communications.
Learn how to protect yourself, your data, and your devices from cybercrime with our engaging online games and educational videos.
Advice and guidance on how to make the most out of studying online.
Microsoft Teams is a teamwork hub and collaboration tool in Office 365 which allows you to work on group projects, discuss ideas or collaborate on files.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/life/preparing-and-arrival:
Everything you need to know about the start of term.
Welcome to UWE Bristol.
We understand that the move to university-level education can feel a little overwhelming.
Don't worry though – we've got you!
Here's everything you need to know about the start of term.
To help you get settled in, we’ve developed Starting Block – a series of activities for you to get to know your coursemates and your teaching team before you properly start.
We’re really excited to welcome you to UWE Bristol.
Take a look at our welcome blog for tips on settling into university life and keep checking back for updates throughout the year!
New, returning and international students need to register with us in order to have access to things like learning materials, tuition fees and student loans.
Information from your programme leader to help prepare you for study.
Information for international students about getting passports and visas checked.
Advice to help international students adjust to life in the UK and at UWE Bristol.
Everything you need to know to prepare for your move into student accommodation.
Try out new activities, explore campus and the city, meet new people, and make connections.
Our series of social events gives you the chance to meet other international students and learn more about university life.
We're running a variety of webinars to help answer any questions that you have about studying here.
As a new student with us, you'll receive a series of welcome emails to help you prepare for university life.
Keep checking your inbox during your arrival month for emails covering all sorts of topics including how we can support you, how to settle in, and things you need to check off your to-do list.
We welcome disabled students at UWE Bristol.
Find out more about support for applicants and current students.
We are committed to supporting care leavers, estranged students and student carers to succeed during their time at the University.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/students/student-futures-manifesto:
Our ten pledges to you.
It’s a big deal, going to university.
A big step but an even bigger opportunity.
So naturally, you want to make the most of it.
We want you to make the most of it.
That’s why, working with some of our past and present students, we’ve developed The Ten: Our ten pledges to you.
The ten ways we’ll make sure you’re able to get  the UWE Bristol experience you want.
In the way that’s best for you.
The ten promises we make to you today, that will help you get where you want to be tomorrow.
Because it really is all here for you.
But – and it’s an important one – you have to make things happen.
You’ll get out as much as you’re willing to put it in.
So, help us to help you.
We don’t want you to look back on your university experience and think 'What if?'.
Don’t wait around and expect everything to fall into place.
Make the most of every opportunity that comes your way.
And remember, we’re here for you.
That’s a promise.
In fact, that’s our ten promises.
From before you arrive to well after you leave, you’ll feel a real sense of belonging within our UWE Bristol community.
You’ll be given all the information, advice, tools and resources you need to settle in, start well and make the most of your time here.
You’ll be introduced to global matters and issues that will expand your horizons and world view.
You’ll be encouraged and supported to look after your health and wellbeing – physically, mentally and emotionally.
You’ll have complete access to all our support services and resources, as part of a rich, vibrant learning environment.
You’ll be assessed in a way that’s inclusive, varied, engaging and authentic, with relevant, actionable feedback that’s individual to you.
You’ll find all kinds of personal development and professional networking opportunities open to you.
You’ll find a place for you, a place where you’re able to be yourself, with our inclusive communities and co-curricular activities.
You’ll be recognised and celebrated for all your successes, in all their shapes and sizes.
You’ll be supported to identify and explore your personal values, interests, strengths and aspirations – to be the best you can be.
Supporting you to become an ethical future professional, able to recognise, develop and articulate your skills throughout the learning experience.
Providing you with the opportunity to engage with and reflect on activities inside and outside of the curriculum that support and raise your ambitions and goals while broadening your interests, options and skills.
Supporting you to evaluate what you want and need as an outcome of your course.
Through your academic journey you’ll be supported to identify your personal values, interests, strengths and aspirations and have help to navigate any setbacks or challenges.
Other useful links Graduate destinations Degree show
Strategy 2030's priority is to deliver an outstanding university experience for our students through innovative, practice-led, research-informed courses.
At UWE Bristol you can get skills and be part of a community of students and staff that are wanting to make the world a better place.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/life/activities/sport:
See our top-quality gym facilities and explore the range of gym services and exercise classes at the Centre for Sport.
Fun activities designed to get you fit and feeling great.
From aerial hoop to tai chi, football to yoga, find a session at a time and location that suits you.
Explore the extensive range of sport clubs and activities available at UWE Bristol Sport.
Our membership options are flexible to suit you.
Find prices, joining instructions and current membership offers.
From kettlebells to pilates, view the range of classes running at the Centre for Sport and book you place.
With over 100 weekly sessions, you'll find a session at a time that suits you.
Search the MOVE timetable for activities by day, time and location.
Find out where we are, when we're open and how to get in touch.
With more than 40 sports clubs at UWE Bristol, you can find your squad.
Join Team UWE Bristol and play competitively for your university.
Our Performance Sport programme offers scholarships, professional training, support and outstanding facilities.
Pass it on.
Do good and feel great with sport volunteering opportunities for UWE Bristol students and staff.
UWE Bristol Sport offers high quality facilities for students, staff and the community, including a climbing wall, sports hall, fitness suite and artificial pitches.
Meet UWE Bristol Sport's personal trainers, who can plan and review your workouts to help you achieve your fitness goals.
From Ofsted-rated holiday camps to climbing courses and climbing parties, explore our options for children and teenagers.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/life/activities/centre-for-music:
With fully equipped rehearsal studios, DJ booth and practice rooms, plus our own recording studio and performance space, explore the Centre for Music for yourself.
Access to Centre for Music is free for all UWE students, join up below.
We offer heavily subsidised lessons for UWE students and staff, 1-2-1 lessons, workshops and masterclasses.
Playing and singing opportunities to suit your interests and experience level.
We offer support to record your music as well as teaching mixing, recording and producing techniques.
View our practice rooms and rehearsal studios.
These are available for student and staff members to book for free.
UWE Centre for Music is an exclusive facility for all UWE Bristol students and staff.
To join any of our playing and singing groups, take advantage of our rehearsal rooms and studio space, come to any sessions or access music lessons, all you need to do is sign up to become a member of the Centre for Music.
More about becoming a member
The Centre for Music runs a busy diary of concerts from September to the end of March each year in some great venues.
Our various music groups are involved in all sorts of events around UWE Bristol and the city.
The Centre for Music showcase website is a platform for featuring the work of our talented musicians and sharing with you all the exciting things we have going on.
As a band, DJ, solo artist or songwriter, the Centre for Music can help you find other musicians, get gigs, peform and record your music and develop yourself as an artist.
Learn how sound and lighting systems work for gigs, events and shows, build stages and sets and find out what happens backstage.
A singing group open to all students and staff and all abilities.
We use quick-to-learn songs by the likes of Imogen Heap, Billie Eilish, Bruno Mars and Radiohead, with a mix of A cappella and accompanied arrangements.
The Big Band is an energetic and polished ensemble, led by experienced jazz musicians Keith Morgan and Nick Attwood with support from Centre for Music's Senior Lecturer Steve Legge.
The Gospel Choir is directed by Kim Samuels.
Come and experience a whole new way of singing and performing.
The UWE Orchestra, conducted by Senior Lecturer in Classical and Jazz Music Enrichment, Steve Legge, plays a hugely varied repertoire.
The band is a student run group who rehearse each week leading to major concerts and competitions.
Under the leadership of internationally renowned conductor Ben England and accompanist Alison Howell, the choir sings a rich programme of classical and contemporary music, with workshops, masterclasses and performances throughout the year.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/life/activities/volunteering:
Make a difference – to the community and your CV.
Use your talents.
Develop new skills.
Build your confidence and start building networks.
Make friends – and a real difference to other people's lives.
Working with over 600 not-for-profit organisations, there are so many opportunities to get involved.
There are so many different ways to volunteer.
Whether you want to build specific skills, or have spare time and want to meet new people.
Anyone.
Whatever your age, background or work experience you will have a skill to fit a community need.
Volunteering can be from home, from campus or out in the community.
It can be done from 5 minutes to a few weeks to fit around your busy schedule.
If you need support expressing your access requirements for your new volunteering role then contact us.
As an international student on a visa you can undertake volunteering whilst you are studying, but it may count towards your work allowance.
It’s very important that you comply with the conditions of your visa, so check the UWE Bristol Visa and Immigration Service’s Working in the UK pages or contact the UWE Bristol Immigration Advice Service if you are not sure.
A whole variety of activities.
There are many different volunteer roles available for you to get involved in via UWE Bristol Volunteering, The Students’ Union at UWE, or in the local community.
You might be interested in working with people, animals, the environment, or 'behind the scenes' in an office role; either way, there’s something for everyone.
You can log in to InfoHub with your UWE Bristol email address and password to search volunteering roles.
All year round!
Volunteering is really flexible.
You can volunteer on a one-off occasion for just a few hours, once a week for an afternoon, or for a week at a summer camp.
Whatever your availability, there will be something you can get involved in.
Keep the charity up to date with your availability so they know if you will taking a step back at busy times like deadline periods.
Most projects simply ask for enthusiasm and commitment.
However, some organisations might ask for previous skills or experience.
Take a look at our volunteering opportunities to find roles –  you’ll be able to read through the description of any roles you are interested in to find what the organisation is looking for.
You can view a summary of the various volunteering opportunities available to see how you can get involved.
Details of all of the available opportunities are advertised on InfoHub .
Go to ‘Search Vacancies’ at the top of the page and under ‘Type of Work’ select ‘Volunteering – International’ or ‘Volunteering – UK’.
You can refine your search by adding specific search words relating to the type of role you are looking for, and the location.
If you would like advice or support on getting involved, please contact UWE Bristol Volunteering .
Volunteering transforms your CV – and your life.
Meet new people, get out and about and have fun, and make a big difference in your new community.
Amy Staff, BSc(Hons) Wildlife Ecology and Conservation Science, talks to us about her volunteering experience with The Students' Union at UWE.
Need an injection of energy, time and passion for your organisation?
Find out more about recruiting student volunteers with UWE Bristol.
Got a question?
Here's how to get in touch with the Civic and Community Engagement Team.
Get involved with volunteering at UWE Bristol, whether it's a regular or one-off opportunity.
We have identified trusted global volunteering providers who offer safe, ethical, good value, and positive outcomes for both student volunteers and communities.
Our Civic and Community Engagement team can help you to find reliable, skilled student volunteers.
Contact us for enquiries about volunteering opportunities and recruiting volunteers.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/about/website:
Access to UWE Bristol's online services for staff and students.
Measures to ensure that the website is inclusive.
Terms and conditions that apply to your use of this website.
UWE Bristol respects the privacy of visitors to our website.
How and why we use cookies on our sites.
Provide feedback about the UWE Bristol website or report a website related problem.
A comprehensive listing of all pages on the UWE Bristol website.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/study/library/log-in-to-your-account:
Log in to your library account to renew loans, pay fines and check the status of your holds.
Students and staff can log in with your UWE Bristol credentials.
Please use the sign in button in the top right-hand corner of the library search page.
Log in using your UWE Bristol username and password
You will need to have your email address you registered with the Library to log in.
Log in using your email address
Contact us for help with finding information, accessing online resources, referencing, your library account, and any other library issue.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/study/it-services/uwe-bristol-account/ess-access:
ESS access for casual staff
ESS enables you to:
Guidance with screenshots can be found below these steps.
You can now continue logging onto ESS.
You can now access your payslip(s) and mandatory training.
UWE Bristol is proud of its diverse workforce and welcomes new job applicants from all backgrounds and communities.
Log in to student and staff systems, including: MYUWE, email, Blackboard, Library account, and UWE Welcome for applicants.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/study/it-services/uwe-bristol-account:
A guide to your UWE Bristol username, email, passwords, multi-factor authentication (MFA) and other accounts available as part of your studies.
Everyone at UWE Bristol – students and staff – has a UWE Bristol IT account with Microsoft to sign in to university systems and any of the Microsoft products and services available to you.
Your account 'credentials' enable you to access UWE Bristol systems and keep your information secure.
The combination you use will depend on which systems you are using.
Your account is automatically created for you before you start your course.
The order in which you get your details is below.
Your account includes your:
You can manage your password and security settings in your Microsoft account :
Some details, such as your name, username and email address, are managed at an organisational level, and you can't edit them.
Your college may give you access to specific course-related accounts using either your UWE Bristol username or email address, and password.
Your course leader will provide you with more information.
Computer Science students - see our IT support for Computer Science students .
Used to access:
Your Microsoft account is where you can:
Please note that Microsoft doesn't allow email as a method for MFA.
Download Microsoft Authenticator
You will need your existing password:
You will need access to two of your authentication methods.
You must change your password if you suspect a data breach or think your account has been compromised.
Report an incident or breach
Remember: the university will never email or call you to confirm your password.
Never give this information to anyone.
Advice on strong passwords, keeping them secure and password managers.
With at least two authentication methods set up, you should still be able to verify who you are if you have a new phone and/or new phone number.
The only likely scenario where this wouldn’t be the case is if you meet all three points below:
This would mean you can't receive a call or text or reinstall and use the authenticator app.
If you had email as another method, Microsoft doesn’t allow this for MFA.
If you're in the situation above, contact the IT Service Desk by phone so we can reset your password and MFA.
We can’t reset anything by email.
Top tips and advice to help safeguard you, others and the University against cyber threats.
To stay connected with UWE Bristol systems when traveling outside the UK (for example Blackboard, MYUWE), use the guidance below to make sure you can still access your files and study materials securely.
MFA is more secure than just using a password because it requires something you  know plus something you physically  have.
We will prompt you to set up or update MFA when you register.
To learn more about MFA and keeping your data secure, visit our Information Security Toolkit .
The short answer is "because it'll make things more secure".
The long answer involves Ronald Reagan.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/study/it-services/it-guidance-for-graduating-students:
Important information about your access to IT Service provisions at UWE Bristol.
We recommend you save and download what you need from the University's IT systems as soon as possible after your results have been published.
This will ensure you do not lose any important information.
Information for final year students about your future access to IT Services at UWE Bristol and any steps you may need to take.
Your access to your personal data and academic record in MYUWE will end four months after your Award Board meeting date.
Find the Award Board meeting date
Before you lose access, make sure that you have:
Once your access is withdrawn, we will not be able to download your HEAR, results and notification of credit, or assessment marks for you.
In addition to physical award documentation, eCertificates will be published for eligible graduates on our UWE Bristol Secure Documents Portal.
This portal will allow you to view and download digital versions of your Award Certificates.
You will also be able to share your digital certificates with third parties through the connections feature.
For more information, including eligibility, go to our UWE Bristol Secure Documents Portal FAQs .
Once your results have been published on the UWE Bristol Secure Documents Portal, you will receive an email to your personal email address, to allow you to register and use the portal.
You can log in using your UWE Bristol details for single sign on or using your personal email address.
Your access to Blackboard will end two months after your Award Board meeting date.
Ensure you have downloaded all feedback from the coursework tab, as once access is withdrawn, you will not be able to download your feedback.
You can continue to use UWE Bristol career services after graduation.
Follow these simple steps for continued access to InfoHub for our vacancies database and event bookings, and to the Career Toolkit for a wide range of online career development tools, guides and resources.
Before you graduate, you should update your personal email address, as this will be the email address your InfoHub password reset email will be sent to.
To do this, please access MyUWE then 'Edit your details'.
If you have not done so already, you will need to reactivate your InfoHub account by selecting 'Graduate' on the InfoHub login page, then 'Reset your password'.
The password reset email will be sent to the personal email account you registered while at UWE Bristol.
Once you have left, all emails sent from InfoHub will go to this email address.
If you can no longer access or don't remember your personal email, complete a lost account form to request access to InfoHub.
If you're having issues with InfoHub access, email the Student Business Systems team at sds.operations@uwe.ac.uk and mention your student number.
As a UWE Bristol alum, you have lifetime access to the benefits of the Career Toolkit .
How you log in will depend on how long ago you graduated.
You will have continued 'student' access to the Career Toolkit for approximately 12 months after your results are published.
Log in to the Career Toolkit as usual - enter your UWE Bristol student username and password if prompted.
Email the Student Business Systems team at sds.operations@uwe.ac.uk if you're having difficulty getting access.
Email the Student Business Systems team at sds.operations@uwe.ac.uk for help switching your account.
Please include your student ID and your full name in the email.
Your subscription to Microsoft 365 will end one month after:
Find the Award Board meeting date or end date
This means that:
You have access to your UWE email directly from Microsoft Outlook for a year after you finish.
You can back up your account by following the instructions in the Microsoft Import and Export Outlook Email, Contacts and Calendar guide .
This includes instructions for importing your UWE emails into another email account.
If you have any difficulties with backing up your account, please contact the IT Service Desk .
Your access to Library e-resources will stop immediately after your Award Board meeting date.
If you have books outstanding on your Library account, please return them as soon as possible.
You can return your books to any of our Library sites at Frenchay, Glenside or Bower Ashton campuses.
After graduation, you'll be able to join the Library by signing up to our Alumni scheme.
This enables you to:
Find out more about Alumni membership .
It offers you unrivalled access to the best and latest graduate roles, connects you with academic and sector peers in the UK and internationally and enables you to directly connect with employers and organisations.
Your access to Pebblepad and associated support will be available for one year following your graduation or withdrawal from your program of study.
After this period, your access to Pebblepad will be disabled, and any work that you have not exported or saved to an alternative location will no longer be accessible.
To avoid losing your work, we recommend that you export your portfolio and save it to a secure location before your access expires.
Pebblepad offers the option to create an alumni account where you can take your assets with you when you leave.
You can continue to use the platform to support your personal learning and professional development as you move on to the next stage of your career.
For guidance on how to create an alumni account, please visit the Pebblepad guidance page .
How to find the award board meeting date or study end date.
To find the meeting date:
To find the end date:
Information about access to IT services for students returning to UWE Bristol for a new course.
Make sure you have downloaded everything you need related to your current course, as this will not be accessible once you start your new course.
If you are starting a new course at UWE Bristol:
Please look at the Information Security Policies when you start your new course as they may have changed.
Your license to Microsoft Office and OneDrive will be renewed when you register for your new course.
Advice about replacements and certified true copies of award certificates, and duplicate certificates of credit (transcripts).
Find out more about the Information Technology Services (ITS) at UWE Bristol.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/study/it-services/wifi-and-remote-access:
eduroam (educational roaming) provides free, fast and secure wifi access on personal devices on campus and when visiting other participating institutions.
For phone, tablets and Windows devices installing the geteduroam app is best.
The app is not available for MacBooks.
For MacBooks, follow the steps below.
This also works as a manual option for all other devices if you don't want to get the app.
Android users may need to use our step-by-step Android knowledge article to enter additional information.
UWE-managed devices will automatically connect to the 'UWE-Authorised' network instead of eduroam.
If you have changed your UWE Bristol password , you will need to remove any previous eduroam connections and start again using the options above.
By connecting to eduroam at UWE Bristol or another institution, you agree to abide by the following:
A separate company provides internet access in our accommodation.
Find out how to get connected to the internet via Moving in .
Wifi connection instructions for visitors to UWE Bristol.
Details of the periods that IT Services schedules possible interruptions to services.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/courses/fees/tuition-fees-policy:
When you register as a student at UWE Bristol, you should ensure
that you read the small print so that you understand what UWE
Bristol expects of you and what you can expect from UWE Bristol
when it comes to paying tuition fees.
The UWE Bristol Tuition Fee Policy applies principally to
students studying at UWE Bristol and UK Federation partnership
institutions.
Students studying on UWE Bristol courses through
non-UK partnership institutions and Kaplan UK should refer to the
policies of their host institutions.
We advise all students to ensure they have read and understood
the terms and conditions of the UWE Bristol Tuition Fee Policy.
Please read the UWE Bristol Tuition Fee Policy 2025-26 (PDF) if you are joining us in the 2025-26 academic year.
UWE Bristol Tuition Fee Policy 2024-25 (PDF) for students who joined us in the 2024-25 academic year.
UWE Bristol Tuition Fees Policy 2023-24 (PDF) for students who joined us in the 2023-24 academic year.
UWE Bristol Tuition Fee Policy 2022-23 (PDF) for students who joined us in the 2022-23 academic year.
UWE Bristol Tuition Fee Policy 2021-22 (PDF) for students who joined us in the 2021-22 academic year.
UWE Bristol Tuition Fee Policy 2020-21 (PDF) for students who joined us in the 2020-21 academic year.
You must also read all the supporting annexes below:
2020/21 annex 2 - Payment of fees to the University (PDF)
2020/21 annex 3 - Student finance-funded students (PDF)
2020/21 annex 3a - Postgraduate loans (PDF)
2020/21 annex 3b - Student finance-funded "NHS" students (PDF)
2020/21 annex 4 - International students (PDF)
2020/21 annex 5 - Studying away from the University (PDF)
2020/21 annex 6 - Additional charges (PDF)
2020/21 annex 7 - Additional modules, retakes and repeat charges (PDF)
2020/21 annex 8 - Withdrawal from the University (PDF)
2020/21 annexe 9 - Debt (PDF)
UWE Bristol Tuition Fee Policy 2019-20 (PDF) for students who joined us in the 2019-20 academic year.
UWE Bristol Tuition Fee Policy 2018-19 (PDF) for students who joined us in the 2018-19 academic year.
UWE Bristol Tuition Fee Policy 2017-18 (PDF) for students who joined us in the 2017-18 academic year.
This document covers all of the key facts relating to UWE Bristol fee charging.
Please ensure you also read the supporting annexes listed below as these documents contain more detailed key information relating to the application of the 2017-18 policy:
UWE Bristol Tuition Fee Policy 2016-17 (PDF) for students who joined us in the 2016-17 academic year
UWE Bristol Tuition Fee Policy 2015-16 (PDF) for students who joined us in the 2015-16 academic year.
UWE Bristol Tuition Fee Policy 2014-15 (PDF) for students who joined us in the 2014-15 academic year.
UWE Bristol Tuition Fee Policy 2013-14 (PDF) for students who joined us in the 2013-14 academic year.
UWE Bristol Tuition Fee Policy 2012-13 (PDF) for students who joined us in the 2012-13 academic year.
For any fee related queries, please visit our fees enquiries page.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/courses/fees/determining-your-fee-status:
Tuition Fees are charged at a rate of either ‘Home’ or ‘Overseas’.
The level that you pay is determined by your fee status.
Fee status is set before the start of the course, and will be assessed based on a number of factors including your nationality, immigration status in the UK, your residency, and where you have been living for three years prior to the start of your course.
The fee status rules are complex and the regulations set out the different qualifying categories that will allow a student to be charged ‘home’ fees.
The UK Council for International student affairs (UKCISA) have produced a user friendly guide to help you navigate the legislation:
Access the UKCISA guide
The University determines your fee status based on the information you provide.
Learn more about:
If you qualify for home fees it may not automatically follow that you will qualify for student funding and vice versa.
Learn more about Government student support by referring to the UKCISA information .
Qualifying for home fee status means that you can be charged the home fee rate of tuition fee.
It is important to be aware that many fee status categories require you to meet the criteria at the start of your course, and as such while fee status can be reconsidered during your course, only very few categories allow a fee status once set, to be changed after this point.
There are number of qualifying categories outlined within UKCISA’s guide to home fees .
You will need to meet all the criteria in any one of the categories to be eligible.
You may find that you meet more than one category, if you do, seek advice from the UWE Bristol Student Money Service or UKCISA to find out which category best suits your circumstances and offers you the most support.
This is the category that most home UK students will meet.
To qualify under this category, you must, on the first day of the
academic year in which the course starts (1 September for courses starting in the autumn and 1 January for those starting
in the spring):
and
If you applied for a place at UWE Bristol while you were living abroad please seek advice from the UWE Bristol Student Money Service .
If you are an EU student and started your course before academic year 21/22, you will remain under the rules that were in place when you started, for the duration of your course.
If you undertake a new course, or a change occurs during your studies that breaks this link such as changing your mode of attendance, you will then be assessed under the new rules.
Do seek advice from the UWE Bristol Student Money Service if this applies to you.
If you are an EU, other EEA or Swiss national, or a family member who is covered by the Withdrawal Agreements (holding settled or pre-settled status) and meet the residency requirements, you may have access to apply for home fee status and student financial support.
For advice on eligibility under the EU Settlement Scheme please contact a UWE Bristol immigration adviser .
If you are not covered by the Withdrawal Agreements and cannot meet the residency requirements, you are likely to be charged 'overseas' fees.
Please refer to our international student information .
If you are unsure about eligibility or have questions about your fee status, please contact the Student Money Service .
The Government have announced that from the 2024/25 academic year continuing students who are granted settled status in the UK may become eligible to be assessed for home fees.
Additional requirements will also need to be met.
Further detail can be found within the UKCISA guide .
Please submit a UWE Bristol Student Money Service advice form (login required) to request a fee status reassessment.
Eligible students from Ukraine in the UK with leave under one of the Ukraine schemes may be entitled to Home fees and student support.
Full details about eligibility can be found within the UKCISA guide .
Please contact the UWE Bristol Student Money Service for advice and to request a fee status reassessment.
If you hold refugee status, you may be eligible for Home (UK) fees.
There are residency requirements that also need to be met, see the UKCISA guide for details.
If you are an Asylum Seeker and the Home Office has not reached a decision on your asylum claim, you will likely be assessed by the University as ‘Overseas’.
If you are awarded a qualifying status after the start of the course, please submit a UWE Bristol Student Money Service advice form (login required) to request a fee status reassessment.
If you qualify for home fees and student finance, and already hold a higher education qualification, you may not be eligible for any further funding.
Please refer to our fees and funding information for students who already hold a higher education (HE) qualification .
Offshore students are those who meet the
'ordinarily resident' criteria in the Channel Islands or the Isle
of Man.
Relocation to the UK mainland solely for the purpose of
study is not sufficient to change the classification of 'offshore
student'.
Students who do not satisfy the criteria to be assessed for 'Home' fee status, will be classed as 'Overseas'.
If you think your fee status is incorrect, please email international@uwe.ac.uk immediately after you receive your fee status assessment.
A fee status questionnaire will be sent to you via your welcome website once you have submitted an application, and this will be used to determine your fee status.
You may be asked for further evidence.
Supporting evidence could include:
It is important that you provide as much information as possible to enable us to make a correct fee assessment.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/courses/fees:
Everything you need to know about tuition fees
The UK Government have announced an increase to the undergraduate tuition fee cap of 3.1% (in line with inflation) from 1 August 2025.
This will mean that UK home student tuition fees will be set according to these new limits.
To find out more about these changes see GOV.UK .
Changes will affect new and continuing full and part-time students who commenced undergraduate study at UWE Bristol after 1 August 2017.
The Government has introduced these changes to aid the financial stability of the higher education sector and support providers to focus on their core mission of providing world-class education.
Read more about student fee increases: what you need to know .
Undergraduate tuition fees will be £9,535 a year for UK home and offshore students.
Tuition fees for part-time study are charged a pro-rata amount of the full-time equivalent.
The maximum tuition fees for a part-time UK student is £7,145.
Type of fee: home and offshore students
2025/26 fee
Annual (per year) fee
£9,535
Annual (per year) full fee following placement year
Reduced annual (per year) fee following placement year
£8,343
Module fee (15 credits)
£1,192
Placement year fee (15 credits)
Fees vary from course to course, so please check the individual course page for accurate fee information.
International students are not usually able to study part-time due to the immigration restrictions of the Tier 4 student visa.
If you are classed as a UK or EU student and already hold a higher education qualification, you will be charged the same fee as UK or EU students without HE qualifications but you may not be eligible for fees and living cost support.
You can view tuition fees policies for the current and previous academic years.
You remain on the same tuition fee policy for the year that you started your current course.
Tuition fee policy
Information on how to pay tuition fees (including deposit) for international students.
Definitions for determining your fee status for home (UK), EU, offshore and international students.
Any additional costs given per course are what you could expect to incur during your studies – and are for items not covered by the standard tuition fee.
These could be for materials, textbooks, travel, clothing, software or printing.
If you’re living away from home while you study, there are plenty of extra costs you need to cover – including accommodation, travel, bills and food.
We’ve estimated that you’ll need to set aside between £14,000–£15,000 per academic year as a single student, based on mid-range accommodation costs.
This doesn't include tuition fees or unexpected costs.
If you have questions about tuition fees, please contact one of the Information Points .
If you are an international student with questions about tuition fees, please email the International Registration Team at international@uwe.ac.uk .
Tuition fee enquiries
The Money matters guide will help you understand your financial contract with UWE Bristol and our processes, including your responsibilities to pay tuition fees.
Money matters guide (PDF)
Information about how much liability to pay fees a student has during the academic year.
Funding and scholarships information for new students, including advice on undergraduate and postgraduate funding and financial support from UWE Bristol.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/courses/funding:
Funding and scholarships information for prospective students, including advice on undergraduate and postgraduate funding and financial support from UWE Bristol.
Funding and Student Finance information for part-time undergraduate students.
Funding and Student Finance information for undergraduate students from the EU.
Funding and loan information for full-time and part-time postgraduate students.
Find out details about the scholarships and bursaries that are available to applicants and new students.
Depending on your course or status, you may be eligible for additional funding.
Please note that all information below applies to undergraduate courses.
UWE Bristol recognises that disabled students may incur extra costs to enable them to carry out their studies.
There are measures in place to minimise the burden of these expenses.
Additional funding is available for students studying some Nursing courses, and Midwifery.
Guidance on how student income should be calculated in Universal Credits awards.
Student parents may be entitled to a range of allowances or grants that will help them to finance their studies.
If you are a new student who already has a Higher Education (HE) qualification and are starting an undergraduate programme, you may find that you are not eligible for funding for your fees or living costs.
Find out more about budgeting, dealing with debt and banking.
Information about eligibility and application for US federal loans for US students.
Find out the different funds that are available to you whilst studying at UWE Bristol.
Information about tuition fees for new and returning students, including UWE Bristol's tuition fee policy.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/courses/applying:
Ready to change the world?
Let's make it happen.
Whether you're a UK or international prospective student, find out how to apply for our undergraduate or postgraduate courses.
How to apply for an undergraduate course.
How to apply for a postgraduate course.
Ways to apply to UWE Bristol as an international student.
A guide to applying for higher and degree apprenticeships.
Learn about how to apply for study at UWE Bristol with Kerry Fey and Ben Stanford from our admissions team.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/courses/professional-development:
If you are looking for personal career development, we have a range of options to help you achieve your goals.
Our expert staff and diverse portfolio of professional training courses offer you the opportunity to acquire new skills and enhance your existing work-based experience.
We'll facilitate the skills to give you the competitive edge and take your career to the next level - whatever the stage of your career is right now.
Our continuing professional development programmes enable professionals and organisations to achieve their goals and exceed their aspirations.
Looking to enhance your skills without the full cost?
Our courses are available with up to 90% funding, making career progression more accessible than ever.
Explore our range of professional short courses in health.
Find out about funded opportunities, industry-specific courses and bespoke training.
Invest in and develop skills to support business, transport, entertainment, social enterprise and connectivity.
Investigate our range of engineering short courses designed to provide you with skills currently in demand in industry.
Develop your staff with the confidence, knowledge, and skills in the field of education.
Acquire new skills and techniques, or enhance the knowledge already acquired, whilst honing your artistry and craft with leading experts in the field of art and design.
Our courses expertly blend theory and practice, empowering you with the skills and creative solutions needed.
Build your own degree using previous qualifications and experience as well as new learning.
With a focus on work-based learning, the flexible structure allows you to tailor your course to match your continuing professional development.
Information about fees, funding and how to apply for our professional short courses.
If you wish to apply for a course, can’t find what you’re looking for or have questions about professional and short course study, please contact our professional development teams for more information.
"The course was exactly what I was looking for; a really engaging programme exploring leadership, change, power and politics with credible and inspiring lecturers and fellow students from a variety of industries.
It was highly instrumental in acquiring my next role."
Amy Jankiewicz Chief of Staff, Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA)
Terms and conditions for professional development courses (excluding Health), including information on fees and payment, cancellation and deferring your place.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/courses/degree-apprenticeships:
Combining on-the-job training with academic study to help improve business skills and knowledge.
Our higher and degree apprenticeships combine on-the-job training with academic study, offering you the opportunity to gain a higher education qualification – typically a Bachelor's or Master's, depending on your chosen course – while earning a salary.
We are committed to enhancing access and participation.
Our apprenticeships are designed to foster an environment that recognises the importance inclusion and diversity.
Winners
Training provider of the year.
Enginuity Skills Award, 2025
of apprentices feel their teaching and training supports their career growth.
Good
Ofsted rating for UWE Bristol apprenticeships.
Ofsted 2022, published 2023.
Steps to guide you through the application process including who can apply, how to apply, and enrolling through UWE Bristol.
Our campus facilities provide practical learning opportunities that support your development in the workplace.
Prior learning may qualify you for Learner Support Fund assistance and accredited learning opportunities.
Hear why apprentice April chose to study a higher and degree apprenticeship and how it could benefit you.
From practical careers advice and mentoring, to CV writing workshops and more, there’s lots of support available to help you achieve your career goals.
Discover all that’s on offer.
We offer a variety of health and wellbeing services.
Whether it's a listening ear, accessing medical care, disability funding or adjustment, or 24/7 crisis support, we've got you covered.
Success takes more than commitment and exceptional teaching.
You need the tools and skills to learn, evolve and thrive.
The good news?
We’ve got you covered.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/courses/funding/postgraduate-funding:
Information about student funding for the 2025/26 academic year for new students.
The figures are subject to parliamentary approval.
Postgraduate students living in England and Wales may be eligible for a student loan.
Unlike undergraduate student finance, postgraduate loans are a contribution to the cost of your study and expenses.
Postgraduate Master's Loans (PGMLs) of £12,858 are available from Student Finance England to study a master's course in the 2025/26 academic year.
Postgraduate Master's Loans (PGMLs) of £19,255 are available from Student Finance Wales to study a master's course in the 2025/26 academic year.
Scotland, Northern Ireland and some British Crown Dependencies have their own Postgraduate Master's Loan schemes for students who want to study in England.
View details of the 2025/26 postgraduate funding schemes
High street banks may offer a loan to support you with further study.
Contact banks directly to find out what type of loans they have on offer and whether it would be suitable for your needs.
It is important that you check all the terms and conditions and ensure that the repayments are affordable before committing to a bank loan.
You might also want to speak with an independent financial adviser about your options.
You may be able to get paid leave for study, funding for some or all of your tuition fees and other course-related costs from your employer.
However, this may only be possible if your course is directly relevant to your work.
Several trusts and charities provide awards for students.
There may be very particular qualifying criteria, and it can be difficult to meet the award criteria.
The following websites are good places to start looking for funds:
UK Research and Innovation (UKRI) brings together the seven disciplinary research councils, which offer funding and support across all academic disciplines.
Please note that competition is strong and only a small percentage of candidates are successful.
Postgraduate Doctoral Loans (PGDLs) are available from Student Finance England and Wales if you wish to study a PhD course.
PhD students starting courses in the 2025/26 academic year, aged under 60 can access a loan of up to £30,301 from Student Finance England or up to £29,130 from Student Finance Wales in total for PhD courses lasting between three to eight years.
The loan is spread evenly over each year of the course.
PGDLs will not cover the costs of both tuition fees and living expenses, so you will need additional funding to cover those costs.
If you are a UK resident, you may be eligible to apply for a full-time Tuition Fee Loan and Maintenance (living costs) Loan from Student Finance in the same way as undergraduates.
See the undergraduate funding information to find out more.
If you are an EU student, your eligibility for student finance funding will depend on your residency status.
Find out more about EU student undergraduate funding .
If you have children, a disability or an adult dependant, you could be eligible for further support from Student Finance; see Get into Teaching .
You can use the Student Finance calculator to estimate the amount of Tuition Fee and Maintenance Loans that may be available to you, as well as any additional support.
Part-time PGCE students will be covered by the funding arrangements for part-time undergraduate students with access to a part-time maintenance loan and tuition fee loan .
New part-time students already holding a qualification equivalent or higher than their PGCE remain eligible for this support.
Please see more details of part-time undergraduate funding .
Unfortunately, iPGCE courses do not receive funding from student finance.
UK students on eligible PGCE courses who are entitled to support under the student finance criteria (who are not employed as a teacher), may be eligible to apply for training bursaries.
The amount of bursary will be based on the teaching subject and degree classification.
Visit Get into Teaching for more detailed information and conditions.
There will be a link to the application form within the joining instructions which will be sent to you via the Welcome portal over the summer.
The bursary is paid in ten instalments from October.
If you hold a degree from outside the UK, please contact UWE Bristol Admissions to help determine your bursary eligibility.
You will need to check whether your qualification is comparable to a British bachelor (honours) degree standard.
Alternatively, you can find information on Get into Teaching .
Trainees in maths, physics, chemistry, computing and languages (French, German and Spanish only) are able to apply for a teacher training scholarship with the appropriate professional body.
Each body sets its own criteria and scholarships are awarded in place of a bursary.
For more information see Get into Teaching .
To receive a bursary or scholarship, students from Wales, Scotland or Northern Ireland will need to be eligible for financial support from their country’s student finance body.
Please contact Student Finance Wales , Student Awards Agency Scotland or Student Finance NI to find out about your eligibility for funding.
Due to faith or conscience some students may be deterred from taking out the UK Government's student loans due to the interest payment system.
Student Finance postgraduate loans incur interest on repayments set at the Retail Price Index (RPI) + 3%.
If you do not wish to take out Student Finance loans you will need to source alternative funding to cover both living costs and tuition fees.
The following websites may be useful:
Other options to consider are:
With multiple funding support options available, postgraduate study is more accessible than ever before.
Graham, one of our Student Money Services Advisers, provides all the information you’ll need about your options and managing financially as a postgraduate student.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate-study/chat-to-our-lecturers:
To ensure you receive the most accurate and detailed information, we encourage you to first review the programme page on our courses and applying pages.
It contains comprehensive details about programme structures, content, and other frequently asked questions.
For other enquiries regarding applications please contact our admissions team:
If you have more specific questions, or would like to request an informal chat with the programme leader, use the form below and we’ll arrange a convenient time for a one-to-one call with you, where applicable.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/study/international-study-exchange:
We welcome exchange students from our international partnerships worldwide.
Coming to study at UWE Bristol for a semester or a full academic year is an exciting opportunity.
As an exchange student from one of our exchange partners you can expect a warm and supportive welcome.
Find out how to apply for an exchange at UWE Bristol for an academic year or a semester.
See if your institution is listed as one of our exchange partner institutions and discover what subjects we offer at UWE Bristol through your institution.
Practical support for exchange students studying at UWE Bristol including information about travel, accommodation, living costs, visa and healthcare.
We offer students from around the world short-term study opportunities to study for one semester or one year alongside our undergraduate degree students.
"From an academic perspective, UWE Bristol is one of the best universities I had a chance to study at.
I had a great experience and the campus environment is really friendly.
I enjoyed my courses and the teaching style."
Snizhana Makushynska Collegium Civitas, Poland; studied Politics and International Relations
UWE Bristol's International College is a joint educational partnership between UWE Bristol and Kaplan International Colleges (KIC).
Our International Summer School balances English language teaching with social activities.
It's the perfect way to get a taster of UK university life.
Information regarding student visas and visas for short term study.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/life/preparing-and-arrival/registration:
Information on registration for new, returning and international students.
Whether you’re a new or returning student, you will need to complete student registration at the start of each academic year.
You will receive an email from the University inviting you to register online.
You must register with the University so that you can:
Follow the guide on how to complete the registration form in MYUWE.
August onwards
For help with registration visit our Registration guidance .
If you experience any problems, we're here to help.
You can: check out the MYUWE registration guidance complete our Get help with registration form chat with us live (click on the yellow speech bubble in the bottom right of your screen) visit the Welcome Hub .
You can:
September 2025
You must register to view your full teaching timetable.
Don’t delay your registration as, once timetables have been published, it takes up to three working days for your timetable to be visible in MYUWE.
Find out when your timetable will be available .
As an international student sponsored by UWE Bristol to be in the UK, you need to complete your in-person enrolment as part of your visa sponsorship.
You'll need to present your passport and visa to be scanned.
Appointments will be available from September.
You will need your UWE Bristol login and password to book an appointment.
September to October 2025
To help you get settled we provide support across all three campuses at our Welcome Hub to make sure you have a good start to your university journey.
Our friendly staff are here to help you.
September onwards
We can only print your ID card if you have uploaded your photo.
Upload your photo on MYUWE as soon as you receive your sign in details.
Get more help uploading your photo .
You should collect your ID card from the campus where you study.
Please allow at least two working days after uploading your photo in MYUWE before going to collect your ID card.
The New student checklist, which includes a welcome map of Frenchay Campus, will assist you with your next steps.
The checklist is a valuable tool for monitoring essential tasks and pinpointing key locations as you settle into university life.
Meet new friends and join our various events.
Visit the UWE Bristol events website to explore and get involved today.
Find out everything you need to know about registering as a new student at UWE Bristol including applying for your Student ID card and receiving your timetable.
You need to complete student registration at the start of each academic year.
Find out more about replacing a lost Student ID card, returning to study after time out and transferring courses.
Find out more about registering as an international student at UWE Bristol, including passport and visa checking, fees and funding and getting support through our welcome hub.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/study/it-services/choosing-it-equipment-for-university:
Our aim is to empower you and put you in control of your learning and digital experience at UWE Bristol.
This guide is your tool to make informed decisions about your IT equipment, ensuring you are well-prepared and choose the right tools for your studies.
Online learning is a pivotal part of your UWE Bristol experience.
While all campuses offer open-access computers, a personal laptop can provide you with the flexibility and convenience you need, putting you in the driver's seat of your learning journey.
We understand that personal preference and budget are significant factors in your equipment choices.
However, investing in equipment that is fit for purpose from the outset will save you time and money and ensure you are well-prepared for the software you are likely to use in your future career, giving you a head start and boosting your confidence.
Understanding the software requirements for your course is the first step, as this will decide the operating system and hardware choices.
More information about using the software at UWE Bristol, including specialist software and offers for students, can be found via software .
The operating system will be decided by what software you'll be running.
Will you need a computer with Windows, macOS or something different?
Some points to bear in mind with the software used in your course:
The specifications of the laptop that you will need depends on the software packages you will use and the complexity of the tasks you will need to do.
Your programme leader will advise of specific course requirements.
As a guide:
Core specification - to access the University's core digital learning systems (Microsoft 365, Blackboard, Collaborate, Panopto, Pebblepad) and light use of specialist apps like SPSS or NVivo:
Enhanced specification - for more advanced data processing, image editing or basic video editing, application development:
Intensive specification - for intensive data processing, video editing, rendering, visualisation, small-scale AR/VR, complex application development:
Thinking about these questions will help you to choose the right device you'll need to complete your studies.
Please note: the University does not endorse any scheme or supplier.
This guide is to help you so you can make the best-informed choice you can when buying IT equipment for your studies.
Information for prospective students, including advice on undergraduate and postgraduate funding and financial support from UWE Bristol.
The software, operating system and hardware are the three main areas to focus on.
Below are some other things you may be thinking about and some useful tips to bear in mind.
There are all sorts of broadband deals around and it's worth checking the guidance from Ofcom about connections and what will be suitable depending on your accommodation and requirements.
'Personal devices' can be defined as any devices not owned or managed by UWE Bristol.
We can offer limited help to students and staff for issues with their personal devices used for your work and studies.
We can't guarantee that all devices will be compatible with our network and services or meet our security requirements.
Find out how and where to access software on-campus, off-campus and at home.
Information on Microsoft 365 features and how to install them, including: email, Microsoft Office and OneDrive.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/study/it-services/software/microsoft-365:
Information on Microsoft 365 features and how to access or install them.
Microsoft 365 is the brand name for a collection of productivity apps and cloud-based services from Microsoft that you can use across multiple devices.
Some apps are available online (web apps) and others are installed on your computer (desktop apps).
This means that you can access your UWE Bristol email and files from wherever you are, as long as you are securely connected to the internet.
Microsoft 365 will run on most recent operating systems of Windows, Android and Apple devices, both mobile and desktop.
Take a look at choosing a PC for university for more information.
The Microsoft 365 platform is secure and compliant with data protection.
However, you should make sure to consider how you use the tools, what you are using them for and who you share information with.
The key parts of Microsoft 365 include:
Store, share, and easily collaborate on files securely with OneDrive.
UWE Bristol students have access to 100GB of OneDrive storage that can be easily accessed online via your browser, through mobile apps and on your PC/laptop.
More information can be found via data storage .
Mail lets you use your email account from any web browser.
You can customise the look of your inbox and messages, control how messages are processed and stored, and create rules to manage incoming mail.
You can also configure your account on most mobile devices.
Visit UWE Bristol email for further details.
Use your Calendar to create and track appointments and meetings.
You can create multiple calendars, link to other people’s calendars, and share your calendar with others in your organisation.
Use People to manage your personal contacts and to view any address books that have been set up for your organisation.
Tasks lets you keep track of things that you need to do but don’t necessarily want to put on your calendar.
Microsoft Office is available on all UWE Bristol desktops and loanable laptops and is available to download free, on up to five devices for home use.
Enhance your collaborative efforts while working on the same document 'live' with other students.
To access your free download please sign into your UWE Bristol Email .
Word lets you create, edit, and share Word documents with other students and your tutors.
Excel lets you create, edit, and share Excel workbooks with other students and your tutors.
PowerPoint lets you create, edit and share PowerPoint presentations with other students and your tutors.
OneNote lets you create, edit, and share OneNote notebooks in your browser.
You can access notebooks from any device.
Take notes, track to-do items, and work with other people at the same time.
Teams lets you see content and chat history anytime in team chat or small group private chat, and have quick access to shared files and other content.
A selection of Microsoft Office applications available to you online, scaled down versions of the Office desktop apps that enables you to create and edit your documents via your browser.
Enhance your collaborative efforts while working on the same document 'live' with your fellow students.
Word Online lets you create, edit, and share Word documents in your browser.
You can access your documents from any device and work with other people at the same time.
Excel Online lets you create, edit, and share Excel workbooks in your browser.
You can access workbooks from any device and work with other people at the same time.
PowerPoint Online lets you create, edit and share PowerPoint presentations in your browser.
You can access and deliver presentations from any device and work with other people at the same time.
OneNote Online lets you create, edit, and share OneNote notebooks in your browser.
Teams Online lets you see content and chat history anytime in team chat or small group private chat, and have quick access to shared files and other content you need from any device and work with other people at the same time.
A selection of Microsoft web apps that Microsoft provide to help with your productivity and daily tasks.
Post a comment in the SharePoint Newsfeed to start a conversation with everyone in your organisation or just a small group of people.
Sway is an intelligent app that helps you easily create an interactive web-based canvas of your ideas.
Pull your content from a variety of sources with minimal effort and use the built-in layout engine to craft a cohesive look and feel that looks great on any screen.
Office Delve shows you personalised information from across Microsoft 365 based on what you're working on and what's trending around you.
The quick and easy way to access Microsoft 365 is by following these steps:
All you need is your UWE Bristol email address, password, and MFA.
The version of Microsoft provided does not require a license key, as long as you are a current UWE Bristol student, it will be activated.
You can install Microsoft 365 desktop apps on a total of five devices.
The first app you open may prompt you for your UWE Bristol username and password.
Search and download Office programs individually from:
If you reach your limit you can deactivate an installed copy by visiting the same page from where you first installed Microsoft 365 and selecting one of the listed copies that you have installed.
If you are experiencing installation issues, please contact the IT Service Desk .
For help with how to use any of the software, we recommend:
How and where to save you work (OneDrive).
Advice and guidance on how to make the most of studying online.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/study/it-services/software/appsanywhere:
Software on-campus and at home.
AppsAnywhere is a platform similar to an app store that provides access to the software you need for your studies.
It is available on all campus computers and any personal devices running Windows or macOS, whether you are on or off campus.
Please note that AppsAnywhere does not currently support Chromebooks, Windows 10 and 11 in S mode, or mobile and tablet devices.
For more detailed guidance, please refer to the instructions for Windows and Mac users.
Here are some of the common questions we get asked about AppsAnywhere from other students.
Some software is licenced exclusively for use on campus computers.
If you're using your own device on or off campus or a UWE Bristol device off-campus, you'll need a UWE VPN (virtual private network) connection to obtain a license for these packages.
Please note that other VPNs won't work with AppsAnywhere.
A VPN extends a private network (in this case, UWE Bristol) across a public network (your broadband or other internet connection).
It allows your computer or laptop to communicate securely with licence servers on the UWE Bristol network.
When you first launch an app in AppsAnywhere that required a VPN connection, you will be prompted to install UWE VPN.
Alternatively, you can create a UWE VPN connection first using the steps below:
UWE VPN connections last for two days and you'll receive a warning notification three hours before the session is due to end.
If you require more time, you will need to reopen Ivanti Secure Access Client, login, connect and go through the authentication process again.
In AppsAnywhere , you will see Campus PC or UWE VPN required under or next to the title of the software.
Please note: some software will not be available in AppsAnywhere until you have a UWE VPN connection, so make sure you have set this up first.
Watch this short video on how to set up a UWE VPN for AppsAnywhere.
(Please note, Pulse Secure has been rebranded to Ivanti Secure Access Client.)
Please note: launching some applications may take longer, especially when launched for the first time.
Please launch any apps when you first arrive and log in, before the lesson begins.
Select any application to view:
You can favourite your most used applications for quick access and copy a link to share the application with other users.
To uninstall an application:
AppsAnywhere uses a streaming technology called Cloudpaging, which relies on the Windows operating system.
While AppsAnywhere is primarily Windows-based, there is support for Mac users for all applications which have a Mac version.
This method is where we have provided Mac installers for certain software to provide a consistent experience to Windows users.
However, this method will mean that your Mac won't recognise UWE Bristol as the developer.
Apple provides guidance to open a Mac app from an unidentified developer and from this we have added our recommended way below.
You can find common questions asked by other students in the AppsAnywhere FAQs .
For further support, please call the IT Service Desk .
You can email feedback on AppsAnywhere or the guidance above to itonline@uwe.ac.uk .
Useful information relating to UWE Bristol student computers and their facilities.
Information on specialist software, how to access them, and locations where they're already installed on campus PCs.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/study/it-services/getting-started:
Welcome to your UWE Bristol IT Quick Help Guide!
We're here to make sure you have a smooth start with the IT systems at UWE Bristol.
Dive into our top tips to get set up and ready to go.
If you run into any issues, our IT Services Team is happy to help!
Why?
For new students, your initial password is only temporary, and you should change it once you have registered .
Passwords should be a minimum of 12 characters – we recommend using three random words.
Additionally, having more than two sign-in methods will enhance your data security and simplify the process if you need to change your password in the future.
How?
Log in to your UWE Bristol account , click on 'Change password', and follow the on-screen instructions.
Next, check your 'Security info' and add a personal email and phone number if they aren't already listed.
You can also add more authenticator apps for added security.
Find out more about managing your UWE Bristol account .
It's free, fast, and secure!
Install the 'geteduroam' app on your phone, tablet, or Windows device (sorry, it's unavailable for MacBooks).
Find out more about wifi access (including how to set up on MacBooks).
To get stuff done!
You'll use some more than others, such as MYUWE and Blackboard.
Throughout the academic year, you will engage with various digital technologies.
It's important to take the time to familiarise yourself with these to feel confident when using them.
Find out more about online learning .
OneDrive is where you'll save stuff, you'll use Teams as part of your course, and Outlook is where you'll receive communications and important messages from UWE Bristol.
You may find some of the other apps useful too.
Microsoft 365 apps are available as web versions; however, all students can install desktop versions on up to five devices.
Find out more about Microsoft 365 .
Most software can be found on AppsAnywhere .
It's mainly Windows-based, but many apps also have Mac versions.
Some 'specialist' software is installed locally on student computers on campus.
This will depend on the device you are using.
All campuses have open-access computers equipped with minimum core provisions .
Find out more about software on campus and at home .
To keep up to date with all maintenance, incidents or unplanned interruptions.
Subscribe using your email address.
You can choose which systems and services you hear about and how often you are notified.
Find out more about the IT Service Status Hub .
If you haven't already bought a computer or laptop for your studies, we recommend ensuring you get something right for your course.
If you will be using software that requires a Windows operating system, don't buy a Mac, and vice versa!
Check with your module leader about any course-specific requirements, particularly if you will be using complex or specialist software.
Remember that all campuses have open-access computers (Windows and Mac), so you don't need to purchase your own straight away.
Find out more about choosing IT equipment for university .
The new MYUWE is here!
Take a tour of the platform.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/events/campus-highlights-explore-frenchay-with-global-buddies:
Discover the best places to eat, grab coffee, shop for essentials, and find your favourite study spots.
Whether you're looking for hidden gems or practical tips for everyday student life, this relaxed walkaround is the perfect way to familiarise yourself with your new campus and meet other students along the way.
Outside P Block Frenchay Campus Coldharbour Lane Bristol BS16 1QY UK
Thu 25 September 2025, 09:00

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/events/transport-in-bristol:
Join our Global Buddies as they share their top tips on using buses, bikes, coaches and trains to explore Bristol and beyond.
Find out how to catch your first bus and learn how to navigate rail apps and travel cards.
This relaxed and friendly session will help you feel more confident and connected as you settle into your new home.
Global Lounge, 2P4, P Block Frenchay Campus Coldharbour Lane Bristol BS16 1QY UK

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/events/bristol-city-tour:
Join the Global Student Support Team for a fabulous sightseeing trip around Bristol city centre.
Get to know Bristol city centre on an informative and interactive walking tour led by a professional tour guide.
You’ll learn about Bristol culture, including the famous street art, and discover some of the amazing history of Bristol, making new friends along the way.
The tour is free but you’ll need to cover your own transport costs and any personal expenses.
We recommend downloading the First Bus app before the event so you can buy your own bus ticket to the city centre.
You can also pay on the bus using a contactless card.
Look out for the Bristol Street Art Tour on Saturday 21 September, 11:00–12:30.
This tour is free but please book your place in advance.
Ka:Fei (blue shipping container) Colston Avenue Bristol BS1 4ST UK

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/events/sunday-chill-at-the-su-1:
Come and relax at The Students' Union at UWE
We’ll have music from the Centre For Music, free snacks, tea and coffee, plus loads of board games and our Nintendo Switch .
It’s a great chance to unwind, meet people, and find out what your SU can offer you.
You can drop-in at any time during the event.
The Lower Enagement Space, Union 1 Frenchay Campus Coldharbour Lane Bristol BS16 1QY UK
Venue Information: Disabled parking: Yes – on campus Step-free access: Yes Automatic doors: Yes Accessible toilets: Yes Induction loop: No Guide/ assistance dog-friendly: Yes Quiet spaces available: Yes
The Students’ Union at UWE welcomes all abilities/disabilities, ages, ethnicities, and genders into our spaces.
If you have any questions, concerns or additional requirements then please let us know so that we can make your time at this event as comfortable as possible.
For more information about this event, please contact the SU at SUCommunity@uwe.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/events/global-morning-coffee-9:
Global Student Support
International student support
A morning welcome from the Global Student Support Team who are here to provide you with all the support and guidance you need to help you to settle into student life at UWE Bristol!
Meet our healthcare professionals and Global Buddies who will be there to help you with questions on topics such as registering with a doctor, accessing emergency treatment, and how to open bank accounts!
Join us for a free hot drink and pastries.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/events/meet-the-global-support-teams-5:
Join us for an overview on the most important things you need to be aware of with regards to your student visa, working in the UK and how to access international and EU student support and guidance throughout your course.
This session will be run by members of our Global Student Support, Immigration Advice and Global Employability teams, with the opportunity to ask any questions you may have about being an international student in the UK.
4X113, X block Frenchay Campus Coldharbour Lane Bristol BS16 1QY UK

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/events/meet-the-global-support-teams-1:
Join us for an overview of the most important things about your student visa and working in the UK.
We'll also explain how to access international and EU student support and guidance throughout your course.
This session will be run by members of our Global Student Support, Immigration Advice and Global Employability teams.
Ask us any questions you have about being an international student in the UK.
Room 2S704, S Block Frenchay Campus Coldharbour Lane Bristol BS16 1QY UK
Join us for an overview on important things you need to be aware of regarding your student visa, working in the UK, and international student guidance.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/events/drop-ins-for-neurodivergence-and-mental-health-study-support:
Neurodivergence and mental health study support
Drop ins for students with diagnosed and undiagnosed neurodiversity or mental health to speak to a specialist practitioner.
Frenchay Library, Level 2 Frenchay Campus Coldharbour Lane Bristol BS16 1QY UK

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/events/bakes-and-board-games:
with the Student Life Team.
Wind down with us over a relaxed evening of games, hearty pies, and soft drinks — the perfect mix to kick back, laugh, and unwind with your mates.
No pressure, just great company and even better snacks.
Student Life Hub, Purdown View Frenchay Campus Coldharbour Lane Bristol BS16 1QY UK
Quiet spaces available: Yes

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/events/drop-ins-for-neurodivergence-and-mental-health-study-support-1:
Drop-Ins for students with diagnosed and undiagnosed neurodiversity or mental health, who would like to speak with a specialist practitioner.
Bower Ashton Library City Campus at Bower Ashton Kennel Lodge Road Bristol BS3 2JT UK

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/events/introduction-to-blackboard:
Find out how to access your learning materials online.
We will cover:
No booking required, join the meeting using the link below.
Add a reminder to your calendar so you don't forget.
This is an online event: Teams

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/life/health-and-wellbeing/get-wellbeing-support/secrets-to-success:
Are you looking for the secret to success at UWE Bristol?
It's actually pretty simple, and it's within you.
We've brought together insight from our lecturers and support services that will help you develop the skills you need to be in control of your wellbeing.
Understand what type of student you want to be and the importance of setting realistic expectations of yourself.
Starting well is important because your journey to graduation is made up of thousands of small, daily steps.
But you need to take the first step.
Being successful at difficult things grows our confidence and gives us the belief that we can do things we once thought were impossible.
Vision gives us purpose and direction which give us a sense of moving forward each day.
These daily achievements will mean you feel like you're reaching your goals.
There's more to university than studying.
By connecting with other students, staff and with the local communities, you form connections that can benefit your wellbeing.
Learn more about the role you play in keeping our community a safe and welcoming place.
Information about the University Health Centre and what it offers.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/research/postgraduate-research-study:
Do you want to push boundaries – both academically and personally?
Choosing to do your PhD or Professional Doctorate at UWE Bristol means just that.
Not only will you be contributing to new knowledge, but you’ll develop a wide range of transferable skills, including research methods, critical thinking and academic writing.
And you may even gain experience in getting published, teaching or presenting your original research at a national or international level.
How do we help you achieve that?
Our supportive community.
As part of UWE Bristol's Doctoral Academy, no matter what your discipline, you will join a thriving and expanding postgraduate research culture made up of diverse students from all over the world.
And with subject experts who provide a personalised experience to your supervision, a structured approach to your studies with regular check-ins on progress, and lots of training and research development opportunities, you’ll be in the best place to succeed.
Find out what research degree programmes are available at UWE Bristol and what they entail.
Useful information and guidance on your research study options including studentships, research degrees and self-funded opportunities.
How to apply to study a research degree at UWE Bristol.
View Doctoral Academy tuition fees, other fees and funding sources.
Learn more about self-funded  research opportunities at UWE Bristol and what they entail.
Learn more about studentship opportunities at the Doctoral Academy.
Support from the Doctoral Academy available to postgraduate researchers at UWE Bristol, including useful contacts.
UWE Bristol offers a comprehensive range of workshops which aim to help you complete your doctorate on time, feel part of UWE Bristol’s researcher community and consider your postdoctoral options.
Useful information and guidance for current postgraduate research students.
Incorporating regulations, procedures, guidelines and frequently asked questions for postgraduate researchers, their supervisors and examiners.
Information and support for postgraduate research supervisors.
Find out more about the UWE Bristol Doctoral Academy.
Email: doctoralacademy@uwe.ac.uk
Doctoral Academy Room 3E37 Frenchay Campus UWE Bristol Coldharbour Lane Bristol BS16 1QY
Find out more about our academic schools within our three colleges.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/about/contact-us/complaints:
The University welcomes all feedback, both positive and negative, and considers complaints to be a valuable source of information enabling us to improve services and enhance the student experience.
A ‘complaint’ is defined as an expression of dissatisfaction requiring a response.
Download the complaints procedure (PDF 161KB)
If you are a student who feels there has been an irregularity in the assessment process following the publication of the exam board results, please see the academic appeals web pages for further information.
Is the complaints procedure right for me?
Find out about the options open to you when making a complaint.
Information about who can complain and UWE Bristol's commitment to you.
Learn about the types of complaints and how they are dealt with.
Learn more about the complaints process and the different stages involved.
Advice and support about the complaint procedure and outcomes.
For any complaints regarding UWE Bristol students living within residential areas, please contact the Community Liaison Team .
The academic appeal procedure enables students to raise concerns about potential irregularity in the assessment process following results of an exam board.
Student feedback is important.
At UWE Bristol we view students as active participants in their learning, engaging them to work with us.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/about/values-vision-strategy:
At UWE Bristol, we’re focused on solving future global challenges through outstanding learning, world-leading research and a culture of enterprise.
Here, we empower our students to make a choice.
To choose a university that pushes itself as much as it pushes them.
To choose a community of original thinkers - breaking new boundaries and leading the way.
From our enterprise support programmes to industry masterclasses.
Professional mentoring to business incubators.
World-leading research facilities to work experience opportunities across the globe.
We give our students the tools they need to act on their ideas and make them happen.
Each of our pioneering courses have been created in partnership with industry professionals.
And over 150 come with professional accreditation from industry bodies.
Coupled with world-class teaching, they’re designed to equip students with the most in-demand skills, and the kind of mindset that employers want and need.
So that when you graduate from UWE Bristol, you’re ready to take on the world.
We believe that it’s only when you ask 'what if?' that you discover 'why not?' .
That’s why we’re not afraid to ask difficult questions – and tackle the big issues head on.
It’s our way of continuing to make a real difference to the way we learn, analyse and contribute to the world we live in.
Our partnerships with industry-leading organisations and businesses across the globe are what keep our courses relevant and our graduates in demand.
BBC, Rolls Royce, Lloyds Banking Group and Airbus and just some of the partners who play an important role in shaping course content and modules.
We’ve been awarded Gold in the Government’s 2018 Teaching Excellence and Student Outcomes Framework, TEF.
This is the best rating achievable and was awarded for our outstanding quality of teaching, alongside the exceptional performance of our graduates.
We make sure our graduates stand out - with the skills employers want and need.
Enterprise is built into our curriculum, and our links to over 7,000 employers help shape many of our courses.
It’s no surprise we’re in the top 10% of UK institutions for sustained employment three years after graduating.
We understand the power of a diverse university community.
That’s why we celebrate individuality and work hard to create a supportive and inspiring place for everyone to work and study.
We’re proud to have welcomed students from over 166 countries – all with different ideas, perspectives and beliefs.
We’re helping to build a more sustainable future for everyone by working towards the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals – with the aim to be carbon neutral by 2030.
From establishing our campuses as clean air and smoke-free zones to eliminating single-use plastics.
That’s why supporting the health and wellbeing of everyone at UWE Bristol is crucial to us.
We work hard to provide an environment where our students and staff can thrive and have a wide range of support options available.
Many of our  academics are globally recognised for their groundbreaking research in a wide range of fields, including robotics and body image.
They’re the ones on the front line, solving global challenges and transforming lives.
Over the last five years, we’ve invested £300 million into our state-of-the-art facilities.
Home to over 450,000 people, hailing from over 187 different countries - Bristol is a melting pot of diversity, innovation, research and tech.
We’re not afraid to shape, challenge and tackle the big issues, to take the initiative and pave the way.
We make UWE Bristol a supportive and inspiring place to learn and work – somewhere where diversity of experience and perspective is encouraged, and learning and research is shared and accessible.
We create new opportunities for the people who work and study with us.
We embrace different ideas and pioneer new and sustainable ways of doing things.
We have strong connections locally and globally.
We help people and organisations be the best they can, building trust throughout our university community and beyond.
We instil a thirst for new knowledge, its creation and application, empowering our students and staff to demonstrate a creative questioning approach, a 'can-do' confidence, and ability to navigate uncertainty.
Our unique approach to research, innovation, skills, enterprise and just and ethical practices is driving societal improvements and transforming futures for the better.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/life/health-and-wellbeing/get-wellbeing-support:
Need somebody to talk to?
Between our professional services, external partnerships and the NHS, there is somebody who can help, scroll through the links below for options.
Call 999 if immediate action is required.
Call NHS 111 if urgent advice is needed.
Notify the University in the event of a crisis or emergency.
Access free support in the way you need, when you need it via the Wisdom app.
Get access to councellors who can listen and offer support on a range of issues, such as bereavement, stress and anxiety, family issues, exam worries and any other concerns you may have.
T: +44 (0)117 32 86268 E: wellbeing@uwe.ac.uk
Counselling and mental health support for registered students who need to explore their difficulties in more depth using solution-focused methods.
The Wellbeing Service provides structured, appointment-based support.
We've developed self-help resource handouts on topics commonly discussed in counselling and specialist mentoring support.
Wisdom App for live chat and video counselling.
Student Health app download free.
T: +44 (0)117 32 86666
Register as a patient for GP appointments to talk about your health and get access to NHS services, including mental health support.
The Anti-Sexual Violence Service at UWE Bristol offers confidential support if you’ve experienced sexual trauma of any kind, recently or in the past.
Bristol Mental Health provides NHS services to support people experiencing an extreme mental health or emotional crisis.
T: +44 (0)808 808 2008
Mental health resource for people in Bristol and the surrounding areas, providing information, signposting, advocacy, low-cost counselling and a hate crime service.
Open evenings from Wednesday to Sunday.
T: +44(0)117 95 42952 E: awp.bmhsanctuary@nhs.net
A supportive place where people experiencing severe emotional distress can go for help outside of normal working hours.
T: +44 (0)1173284142 E: chaplaincy@uwe.ac.uk
The University's Chaplaincy Team are available provide a listening ear and offer spiritual direction to staff and students of all faiths and none.
E: dandaservices@uwe.ac.uk
Harm reduction advice and support for registered students who want to explore their substance use in more depth.
The Drugs and Alcohol Service provides structured, appointment-based support.
T: +44 (0)117 32 85678 E: infopoint@uwe.ac.uk
There are Information Points on each campus.
Just drop in to one of them and they'll help you navigate all the support on offer.
Mental health resources, services and support designed for men in the UK.
T: 0117 203 4419
Mindline is a free, confidential helpline that anybody in Bristol can call if they need emotional support.
The line is staffed by highly trained volunteers who will listen, support callers, and help them to work through their feelings, for up to half an hour per day.
T: +44 (0)808 80 82008 E: info@myh.org.uk
An emotional support helpline that supports clients of all backgrounds by providing a listening ear.
Open Monday to Sunday, 365 days a year, including Bank Holidays and Eid.
T: +44 (0)117 32 83589 E: sae.admin@uwe.ac.uk
Specialist practitioners offering a range of study support services including groups, workshops, drop-ins, one-to-one support and neurodiversity screening.
T: 111
Answer questions about your main symptom, get advice on where and when to get help, or get a call from a nurse.
They offer a range of short-term psychological therapies to adults who live in Bristol, North Somerset and South Gloucestershire and are registered with a GP there.
T: +44(0)117 95 25742 E: clare@nilaari.co.uk
A local black, Asian and minority ethnic-led charity with therapists delivering support, talking therapies and workshops for students experiencing the rigours of university life.
Off the Record is a mental health social movement by and for young people aged 11-25 living in Bristol and South Gloucestershire.
T: 0800 068 41 41 E: pat@papyrus-uk.org
The national charity dedicated to the prevention of young suicide – they can help.
You can use this online tool to report incidents like bullying either anonymously or with details so we can investigate, plus access practical support and guidance.
T: 116 123 E: jo@samaritans.org
Samaritans offer a safe place for you to talk any time you like, in your own way – about whatever’s getting to you.
You don’t have to be suicidal.
T: Text 'UWE' to 85258
Shout 24/7 Crisis Textline is a service that offers support via text to UWE Bristol students experiencing a mental health crisis.
The Stay Alive app is a pocket suicide prevention resource, packed full of useful information to help you stay safe.
Student Experience Coaches work with you to help you overcome anxiety connected to your life at university and outside the classroom.
They support you to build a plan for defining direction, overcoming obstacles and achieving your aims.
Why Google your symptoms and risk getting overly worried?
Download the Student Health App and use it to reduce your worries and know where to go to get the support you need.
For students, led by students.
Student Reps work to create positive changes to the learning experience at UWE Bristol, so if you're having trouble in your course, speak to your rep.
Manage the stresses caused by academic study by developing the skills you need to succeed.
Student Space is here to make it easier for you to find support.
Trusted information, online tools and resources from Student Minds.
T: +44(0)117 32 82676 E: advice@uwe.ac.uk
Gives friendly, non-judgemental and confidential advice about housing, finances, academic issues and more – no appointment necessary.
T: +44(0) 117 342 6999 E: TheBridge@UHBW.nhs.uk
The Bridge is a Sexual Assault Referral Centre (SARC).
They offer medical care, emotional and psychological support, and practical help to anyone who has been raped or sexually assaulted.
Also offer information and support to friends and family if someone you care about has been affected by rape or serious sexual assault.
Available 24/7, 365 days a year.
Develop the skills to survive and thrive through challenges, change and uncertainty by investing in your personal wellbeing.
T: +44 (0)117 9424510 E: info@bridgefoundation.org.uk
The Bridge Foundation offers short and long-term counselling and psychotherapy to adults, children, young people and their families.
They have extensive experience of working with people with a wide range of concerns and difficulties.
We have a range of resources at UWE Bristol to help you manage your own wellbeing.
Support and advice for staying happy and healthy while at university.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/life/health-and-wellbeing/get-disability-support:
Disclose as a disabled student Apply for reasonable adjustments Create your impact statement Get Disabled Students' Allowances
Neurodivergence and mental health study support Disability support guide Book a DSA Study Needs Assessment Disability Service Enquiry and Self-Help Form
Everything you need to know about accessing our Disability Service as a new or current student.
Ways to get in touch if you have a query about disability.
Find out more information about Blue Badges and accessible parking.
Details of assistive technology support available at UWE Bristol.
Access the Study Needs Assessors guide and non-medical helper support rates and guidance.
If you have additional needs, we have accessible, adapted rooms available on Frenchay Campus.
If you are a Degree Apprentice, how you get support and equipment is different.
This information has been put together to support autistic people transitioning into university life.
Find out what to expect at UWE Bristol, get tips to help you prepare for the start of the year and settle in.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/about/structure-and-governance/data-protection:
We recognise the importance of managing personal data securely and with respect for the privacy of our students, staff and anybody else who communicates with the University.
Access UWE Bristol's privacy notices.
Access the full General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) statement and Data Protection Policy for UWE Bristol.
Guidance and information for completing a DPIA and a downloadable template.
Examples of data breaches and how to avoid them as well as what to do if you suspect a data breach has happened or need to report one.
Report an incident or data breach .
Complete the Data Protection Subject Access Request Form (PDF) .
If you need to contact the Data Protection Office then please do so by emailing dataprotection@uwe.ac.uk or by telephone on +44 (0)117 32 86776 .
Login to UWE Bristol, view accessibility guidance, our privacy notice and manage your cookies.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/about/structure-and-governance/policies:
View key UWE Bristol policy and strategy documents.
Previous years' documents can be viewed in the Terms and Conditions archive .
Admissions Policy (PDF) Fraudulent application procedure under Section 14 of UWE Admissions Policy (PDF) Contextual Admissions Policy (PDF) Procedure for withdraw, reject or defer application under section 10.0 of the UWE Admissions Policy (PDF) Applicant Conduct Procedure (PDF) Criminal Conviction Policy (PDF) Criminal Conviction Procedure (PDF)
Details about the key people at UWE Bristol, from the governors and Directorate to professional service and college heads.
Facts and figures about UWE Bristol, including student and staff numbers and demographic data.
Find out more about our academic departments and schools within our three colleges.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/about/structure-and-governance:
Key information relating to the business of UWE Bristol.
Profile of our Chancellor, Sir Peter Bazalgette.
Find out more about our Vice-Chancellor, President and Chief Executive Officer Professor Sir Steve West.
Appointed by the Board of Governors, the Pro-Chancellors support the Chancellor in acting as advocates for the University, helping to raise its profile and advance its interests.
Senior managers at UWE Bristol.
Find out about the Board of Governors, the Academic Board and the Vice-Chancellor's Executive.
We recognise the importance of managing personal data securely and with respect for the privacy of our students, staff and anybody else who communicates with us.
Our legal status as a university.
A listing of key UWE Bristol policy documents.
UWE Bristol is one of Britain's most popular universities with over 29,000 students and 3,000 staff.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/about/services:
This section is undergoing updates as the University transitions to new structures and teams.
Whilst we are working to update information as quickly as possible, some content may be inaccessible, incomplete, subject to change, or temporarily outdated.
Your guide to all things accommodation at UWE Bristol.
Your options, how to apply, prices, moving in advice and residents guide.
Stay up to date with the latest support, benefits, news, and stories for UWE Bristol alumni.
How to report crimes, security incidents or suspicious behaviour on UWE Bristol campuses.
Our career coaching service can help you to develop a career plan.
The Centre for Music provides fantastic opportunities for learning, exploring and performing music across a diverse range of activities, ensembles, workshops and events.
Find out how the University is strengthening links with our local communities through our community liaison.
Equality, diversity and inclusivity underpin the University's core values.
Information about Estates and Facilities at UWE Bristol, including our services, teams and contact details.
Responsible for the efficient processing of financial transactions, production of financial statements and statistical returns to meet regulatory requirements.
Services providing information, advice and guidance to future students, schools and colleges, parents and carers, recruitment agents and partner organisations.
From pre-sessional English and summer schools to student support, we help students settle into their new life and studies at UWE Bristol.
We provide professional advice and guidance on relevant legislation and implementation of UWE Bristol’s Health and Safety policy.
We offer a wide range of services including hospitality delivered catering for a variety of events, catering outlets on all campuses and pre-paid voucher schemes.
Access library search and find information or help with using library resources and facilities.
Find out about People and Organisation Development (P&OD) at UWE Bristol, including policies and contact details.
Find out more about our on-site police officer and how to report a crime or incident.
Details of our convenient post office for the personal mail of students, staff and visitors on Frenchay Campus.
A professional printing and binding service for students and staff, run by the Printing and Stationery service.
Supporting, developing and enhancing the University's ambitions for research, professional development and business engagement.
We support the delivery of the University's 2030 Strategy, working with staff to coordinate, resource and monitor delivery of the University's strategic programmes.
Enhancing the academic experience of students and playing a pivotal role in establishing the shape and future direction of the University.
We provide staff and students with their individual teaching timetables for all schools at UWE Bristol.
Here to give student opportunities, build community and represent the student voice during your time at university.
Information on the UWE Bristol Travel and Access Team and how to get support from them.
Details of UWE Bristol's local branch of the national UNISON union.
Details about the UWE Bristol branch of the University and College Union.
Open to everyone, we provide fantastic sports facilities, activities and classes.
More information about the Vice-Chancellor's office, which is part of the Strategy and Governance Directorate.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/about/our-history:
A brief history of UWE Bristol, including a timeline and the meaning behind our coat of arms.
Although UWE Bristol is a modern university, its educational roots date back to the 16th Century.
We have a history built on partnerships and collaborations dating back to 1595.
Over the years, UWE Bristol has continued this tradition in order to grow and transform itself to meet the demands of modern day students and higher education teaching.
From a 1595 merchant navigation school to the present day, discover the long and interesting history of our institution.
St Matthias Campus closed its doors in June 2014.
Staff and students, past and present, reminisce on their time at one of the University's much-loved campuses as part of the St Matthias history project.
Find out more about the Glenside Hospital Museum, which currently houses students on Health and Social Care courses and has medical roots dating back to 1857.
The University of the West of England, Bristol, has its roots in a number of colleges, which reflect a lively local tradition of vocational education dating back as far as 1595.
Our coat of arms was designed to represent, and to celebrate, that many-stranded past.
Information about UWE Bristol campuses and how to find them, including transport and travel options.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/about/demographic-data:
UWE Bristol is one of Britain's most popular universities with over 38,000 students and 4,500 staff.
Our latest staff and students numbers at UWE Bristol, including age, ethnicity and gender of our students.
UWE Bristol data on applications, offers, acceptances, registrations and attainment for the Office for Students Transparency return.
UWE Bristol annual report and financial statements for the past six years.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/news/uwe-bristol-provides-outstanding-student-experience:
Media Relations Team,                        28 September 2023
The student experience UWE Bristol provides has been judged to be outstanding in a new sector-wide assessment of teaching quality.
The University received the highest possible classification of ‘gold’ for the student experience aspect of the revised Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF) review, with all seven features of excellence assessed to be typically outstanding.
For the student outcomes aspect the University was awarded a ‘silver’ rating, with all six features of excellence judged to be of very high quality.
Overall the University was awarded ‘silver’, with the TEF panel considering that there is compelling evidence that the very high quality features apply across the student body, including students from underrepresented groups.
The TEF evaluation is carried out by the Office for Students and designed to help applicants make informed choices and encourage universities to engage in continuous improvement.
English higher education providers were awarded one of four overall TEF ratings – ‘gold’, ‘silver’, ‘bronze’ or ‘requires improvement’, which they will hold for four years.
The classifications released today are based on expert TEF panel evaluations of written submissions from universities, students and key data indicators.
The TEF panel noted that UWE Bristol embedded effective approaches to the learning and teaching, and tailors its approaches to its student body, with evidence of outstanding quality across the student experience.
The University was judged to have highly effective and embedded teaching, learning and assessment practices that support our students’ learning, progression and attainment.
In support of the feature ‘Course content and delivery; student engagement in learning and stretch’, UWE Bristol submitted examples of its work including immersive and scenario-based Project Weeks run in the engineering curriculum, future-facing philosophy provision that sees students organising and leading public engagement events, and regular interdisciplinary major incident simulation exercises staged for our health care and other students at our Glenside campus.
These and other examples were able to evidence that the University’s course content and delivery inspires students to actively engage and commit to their learning, and stretch students to achieve their full potential.
The methodology for the TEF assessment has been significantly revised since the first exercise released in 2017, with an enhanced dual focus on both the quality of the student experience and student outcomes (continuation, completion and progression to further student and graduate employment).
It has been re-designed to assess how well each provider is delivering for its particular mix of students and courses, embracing the diversity of student populations and different ways of providing learning and teaching.
Professor Sir Steve West, Vice-Chancellor at UWE Bristol, said: “It is pleasing that the University’s excellent work to support, encourage and inspire our students has been recognised with the best possible rating for student experience through the rigorous TEF process.
“The TEF assessment is an important piece of work across the sector to measure of the quality of teaching, learning and student outcomes, and it is significant that an independent student submission was included as part of universities’ submissions for the first time in the revised TEF process.
This contribution is vital in giving students a voice in the evaluation and allowing universities to learn and improve from student feedback.
“I would like to say a heartfelt thanks to the staff that worked tremendously hard to drive forward our detailed submission, and to staff from across the university for ensuring we are able to offer an outstanding student experience.
Our TEF submission captured the enormous breadth of innovation and great practice taking place across the university to ensure our students thrive and flourish on their way to rewarding and fulfilling careers.”
Guy Bailey OBE, a civil rights activist instrumental in the Bristol Bus Boycott, has been awarded an honorary doctorate by UWE Bristol.
Jezz Wright, founder of a range of in-cell channels that aim to help prisoners with their rehabilitation, has been awarded an Honorary Degree by UWE Bristol.
11 July 2024
New student accommodation at UWE Bristol which is the largest low carbon development of its kind in the UK has been completed.
07 June 2024
Dr Matthew Jones has been selected to join the new cohort of Design Council Experts.
05 February 2024
Universities in the west of England have pledged together for the first time to take a collective approach in tackling sexual violence and harassment.
06 December 2023
UWE Bristol has appointed Piers Taylor as Professor of Knowledge Exchange in Architecture.
16 October 2023
UWE Bristol statement on Israel and Gaza.
28 September 2023
UWE Bristol is developing proposals to relocate its School of Health and Social Wellbeing from Glenside campus to Frenchay campus.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/study/career-development/graduate-destinations:
Every year a survey is carried out to discover the employment status of graduates across the UK 15 months after graduation.
UWE Bristol consistently outperforms the Higher Education sector for percentage of graduates in employment.
Find out what careers our graduates go into after leaving UWE Bristol, who our top employers are and options for further study and career support in each of the subject areas.
See destinations for our Accounting and Finance graduates.
See destinations for our Architecture graduates.
See destinations for our Art graduates.
See destinations for our Audio and Music Technology graduates.
See destinations for our Biosciences graduates.
See destinations for our Business Management graduates.
See destinations for our Computer Science and Creative Technology graduates.
See destinations for our Construction, Property and Surveying graduates.
See destinations for our Design graduates.
See destinations for our Drama and Acting graduates.
See destinations for our Economics graduates.
See destinations for our Education and Teaching graduates.
See destinations for our Engineering graduates.
See destinations for our English, History and Writing graduates.
See destinations for our Environmental Science graduates.
See destinations for our Fashion graduates.
See destinations for our Filmmaking, Animation and Photography graduates.
See destinations for our Forensic Science graduates.
See destinations for our Geography and Environmental Management graduates.
See destinations for our Health Professions graduates.
See destinations for our Journalism and Media graduates.
See destinations for our Law graduates.
See destinations for our Marketing graduates.
See destinations for our Mathematics graduates.
See destinations for our Nursing and Midwifery graduates.
See destinations for our Philosophy, Politics and International Relations graduates.
See destinations for our Physiotherapy, Occupational Therapy and Sport Rehabilitation graduates.
See destinations for our Planning graduates.
See destinations for our Psychology, Sociology and Criminology graduates.
See destinations for our Social Work, Environmental and Public Health graduates.
The structure and coverage of this survey are determined by the Higher Education Statistics Authority (HESA) .
The survey's coverage spreads to all UWE Bristol UK first degree leavers who have successfully achieved an award on a full-time, part-time or sandwich degree within the previous six months.
See more information about UWE Bristol's excellent university rankings and reputation.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/news/uwe-bristol-becomes-first-university-to-earn-merit-status-for-approach-to-mental-health:
Media Relations Team,                        14 March 2024
UWE Bristol has become the first university in the UK to achieve the University Mental Health Charter ‘Award with Merit’ for embedding mental health and wellbeing as a strategic priority and implementing a whole-university approach.
The University has received the Award for its commitment to the evidence-informed principles of the University Mental Health Charter Framework created by Student Minds, the UK’s student mental health charity.
Yeme Onoabhagbe, Interim CEO at Student Minds, described the achievement as an ‘extraordinary milestone’.
She said: “The attainment of the Merit status reflects the unwavering commitment, hard work and effort invested by UWE Bristol’s staff and students to embed a whole-university approach to better mental health.
It's a testament to the university’s collective effort and dedication.
“This remarkable achievement marks this next phase in UWE Bristol’s journey, and the outcomes report serves as a powerful tool to keep developing a better future for the university’s students and staff.”
UWE Bristol was one of 32 universities to join the University Mental Health Charter (UHMC) Programme when it launched in 2021 .
The Programme brings together universities committed to making mental health and wellbeing a university-wide priority, sharing practice and creating cultural change.
All universities on the Programme pledged to work towards a Charter Award which recognises universities that demonstrate excellent practice and ongoing improvement of mental health and wellbeing.
Universities are assessed by a team of peer-assessors against the UMHC Framework, which was developed in consultation with students and people across the Higher Education sector and beyond.
Assessments are then scrutinised by an independent panel to ensure consistency and fairness, before outcomes are ratified.
To date, Student Minds has a network of 96 universities on the Charter Programme.
Ten of these have received an Award.
UWE Bristol is the first to achieve the Award with Merit status which is awarded to universities ‘addressing’ Principles of Good Practice (or higher) in all themes of the Assessment, and has at least three themes ‘demonstrating’ good practice or higher.
In the Assessment Outcomes Report, the Assessors singled out the UWE Cares programme for special praise, describing it as ‘excellent practice’.
Karen Archer, who leads the UWE Cares programme, said: “UWE Cares provides quick, empathetic, and accurate signposting to our students, enabling them to navigate all of the fantastic support at UWE Bristol.
We have a whole-university approach to ensure that some of the most vulnerable students feel seen and supported.
We are thrilled to have been recognised as an excellent area by the Assessment Team.”
In a letter to UWE Bristol, Student Minds’ Head of Programmes Jennine Fox said: “It is evident that the University has successfully engaged with the spirit of the Charter as a learning and development tool.
The Award Panel emphasised the Institution's responsibility to the wider sector to share examples of good and excellent practice, particularly in Support and Leadership, and its approach to the Assessment process.”
Jo Midgley, Deputy Vice-Chancellor and Registrar at UWE Bristol, said: “I would like to thank our dedicated staff and students for their efforts in working towards this important Award.
For their work to be recognised in this way is a truly fantastic achievement.
We are committed to continuing our learning and to further enhance our whole-university approach, to empower everyone in our community to thrive and flourish.”
28 May 2025
Leaders from Bristol-based Empire Fighting Chance and Canadian non-profit REACH will speak at the next Bristol Distinguished Address Series.
09 May 2025
UWE Bristol is among the first universities in the UK to introduce sanitary waste bins in male toilets for the disposal of incontinence products.
11 April 2025
Two UWE Bristol researchers are among the recipients of a £7.6 million investment from the Academy of Medical Sciences aimed at tackling urgent health challenges.
A national research partnership will explore ways to support wellbeing and sustainability in the NHS and social care same day and urgent care workforce.
10 March 2025
An inspiring tale of grit and resilience will be told to audiences at the first BDAS event of 2025 as UWE Bristol welcomes Nick Hounsfield, founder of The Wave.
28 February 2025
Paramedics working in GP surgeries help reduce GP workload but do not contribute to cost savings to the NHS, according to the first major study of the clinical and cost-effectiveness of paramedic compared with GP consultations.
24 February 2025
A new WESTbusStop+ bringing together buses and other ways to travel has been officially opened at UWE Bristol’s Frenchay campus.
06 February 2025
Flicking through the pages of academic medical textbooks back in 2022, our team spotted a surprising omission: a stark absence of images of health conditions on darker skin tones.
30 January 2025
Women exercising in gyms often feel judged for their appearance and performance, leading to a persistent sense of inadequacy, according to a new study.
19 December 2024
A UWE Bristol researcher has been appointed an honorary professor at a prestigious university in Denmark.
18 December 2024
Could singing in a group bring a moment of calm and boost your mood this Christmas?

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/news/uwe-bristol-ranked-among-top-15-per-cent-of-apprenticeship-providers-nationally-:
Media Relations Team,                        29 April 2024
UWE Bristol has been ranked among the top 15 per cent of apprenticeship providers nationally in a new league table.
In the Qualification Achievement Rate (QAR) table for 2022/23, to be published by the Department for Education, the University has achieved a score of 74 per cent for the outcomes of its apprenticeships.
This places UWE Bristol in the top 15 per cent of all 1,119 providers (including Higher Education and non-Higher Education providers).
This success follows UWE Bristol’s recent top 20 ranking for best apprenticeship training provider in a Rate My Apprenticeship annual guide.
Simon Flenley, Assistant Director of Apprenticeships at UWE Bristol, said: “It is great to see our apprenticeship provision going from strength to strength.
UWE Bristol is incredibly proud of the work we continue to do for those studying an apprenticeship with us.
I’d like to thank all our staff for the incredible amount of hard work they undertake to support each apprentice.
“UWE Bristol’s success in this table reflects the high-quality teaching provided to apprentices, along with the effort, dedication and commitment of each apprentice and their supporting employer.”
The Qualification Achievement Rate is the measure of a provider’s success in delivering an apprenticeship.
A successful outcome is defined as an apprentice completing all components of their apprenticeship, including their End Point Assessment.
UWE Bristol delivers 19 higher and degree apprenticeships across different disciplines.
A list of the University’s apprenticeships can be found on our course pages .
Further information is available on the apprenticeships and employer pages.
Information for students about the higher and degree apprenticeships offered at UWE Bristol.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/news/uwe-bristol-wins-national-sustainability-award:
Media Relations Team,                        05 December 2023
The University of The West of England (UWE Bristol) has won the Sustainability Institution of the Year award at this year’s Green Gown Awards which celebrate the inspirational sustainability work and projects of UK and Ireland higher education institutions.
The judges commended the university for its stand-out strategic plan ‘Transforming futures: Our path to 2030’, saying: “It’s absolutely right and appropriate to recognise and celebrate UWE Bristol’s longstanding and deep-rooted commitment to sustainability action – it really is in the DNA of the organisation.”
Now in its 19th year, the 2023 awards, in association with UK Research and Innovation, took place in Liverpool on Thursday 30 November.
The evening showcased a diverse array of innovative projects that universities and colleges across the UK and Ireland are currently leading to create a positive change.
UWE Bristol’s 2030 Strategy is working to address the urgency of the climate and ecological crisis and strives to fulfil the university’s role in the achievement of the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals.
It has a diverse community of global citizens and works with partners, communities, and stakeholders to drive the transition to a decarbonised and regenerative economy in the west of England and beyond.
Professor Sir Steve West, Vice-Chancellor of UWE Bristol, said: “We are investing heavily in the student experience, campus improvements and new smart, low carbon technology to support the journey to a net zero and biodiversity rich future.
We also work collaboratively with the Students’ Union to ensure that the student voice is at the heart of our approach.
“Winning this prestigious award is a fantastic endorsement of our exceptional commitment to sustainability and of the efforts of many of our staff and students.
It validates our efforts to inspire and motivate others to practice sustainability and responsibility.”
Commenting further on UWE Bristol’s winning submission, the judges added: “We felt the university exemplified what a whole organisation approach to sustainability looks like – embedded across all aspects of the institution, planned with real intent and delivered with tangible outcomes and an openness about lessons learned.”
The university was also Highly Commended in the ‘Creating Impact’ category recognising the excellent initiative and impact of the Sustainability Hub – a physical space where students and staff can come and swap out everyday items, socialise in a sustainability-themed space and avoid fast fashion.
This hub-and-spoke approach is demonstrating true collaboration between the university sustainability team and its Students’ Union, and a coming together to best help students and staff to live sustainably.
To date the hub has had over 2,000 customers with 1,305 items swapped.
Charlotte Bonner, CEO, EAUC, who deliver the Green Gown Awards, said: “The Green Gown Awards celebrate the most innovative and impactful work being done by those working in the post-16 education sector.
The projects, initiatives and people showcased through the awards this year are, as ever, inspirational – it’s been a privilege to be part of the judging.
I look forward to seeing them flourish in future and to using their examples to springboard further action for sustainability.”
Alison Robinson, NERC Deputy Executive Chair and Director of Business Delivery and Insight, part of UKRI and headline sponsor, said: “Congratulations to the winners of the Green Gown Awards.
It is so great to see this exceptional set of finalists showing us what is being done across our sector to reach net zero.
The quality of research and innovation alongside the passion and enthusiasm of all the finalists is inspiring.
I look forward to following the progress of these projects as they help us all take climate action.”
As a winner in the Sustainability Institution of the Year category, UWE Bristol is automatically entered as finalist for the International Green Gown Awards which take place in July 2024.
03 January 2025
Research led by UWE Bristol and the University of Southampton has shown wearable electronic textiles (e-textiles) can be both sustainable and biodegradable.
Two UWE Bristol academics have made contributions to an influential Government report on the measurement of air pollution.
Road traffic noise reduces the wellbeing benefits associated with spending time listening to nature, researchers have discovered.
15 November 2024
A UWE Bristol researcher will lead a £4.7 million project focused on the management of UK’s grasslands aimed at supporting efforts to achieve net zero emissions by 2050.
14 November 2024
UWE Bristol has won the 2030 Climate Action award at the 2024 Green Gown Awards for its highly sustainable student accommodation, Purdown View.
12 November 2024
UWE Bristol will play a key role in a new programme to educate more than 10,000 young people in the West of England about green skills and help them explore eco-friendly careers.
05 November 2024
When David Attenborough said saving the planet is now a communications challenge, he probably wasn’t thinking about the possibility of DJs doing soil sets.
01 October 2024
New practical guidance to help local authorities in England create places that promote health has been co-authored by a UWE Bristol academic.
17 September 2024
UWE Bristol’s Repair Café returns this autumn with a special ‘repairs skills day’ on 25 September, ahead of the café reopening monthly from 9 October.
03 September 2024
A UWE Bristol researcher looks set to transform the jewellery industry after successfully growing the world’s first ruby in situ, in a platinum ring.
02 September 2024
The reintroduction of beavers to wetlands in England and Wales is leading to an increase in bat activity, a new study suggests.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/courses/find-a-course/courses-by-subject:
Browse the courses available in the subject area that interests you.
Foundation, undergraduate, postgraduate and continuing professional development courses are included.
"I’ve no doubt that my degree gave me the skills and confidence to achieve my goals and find my dream job.
It’s got me exactly where I wanted to be."
Anna BA(Hons) Geography

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/about/services/research-external-engagement/contact-us:
If you're interested in any of our business projects, or want to get in touch regarding Degree Apprenticeships, Continuing Professional Development (CPD) or Graduate Talent and Recruitment, please contact our Business team:
Email: uwebusiness@uwe.ac.uk
If you have a query regarding our research or bidding activities, please contact our Research Office:
Email: res.admin@uwe.ac.uk
Research and External Engagement Northavon House UWE Bristol Coldharbour Lane Bristol BS16 1QY UK
Members of staff can find out more about Research and External Engagement at UWE Bristol on the Research and External Engagement intranet pages (login required).
Employee Self-Service (ESS) gives you secure access to some of your data held in the University's people management system.
UWE Bristol's range of continuing professional development courses and short course study has been designed to help you achieve your career ambitions and maximise your potential.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/rise/shaping-integrated-healthcare:
Transforming health and wellbeing for all.
We are driving innovation in health and social care education, workforce development and technology to create a system that prioritises prevention, community-based care and digital transformation.
Find out what we're doing to reimagine healthcare provision in a modern age.
We are working closely with minoritised communities around their sexual health and on marginalisation through sexual violence - REE blog.
We are using eye-tracking and machine learning technology to aid the early diagnosis of crippling neurodegenerative diseases - REE blog.
A new photo library has launched to address the shortage of images available showing health conditions on a range of skin tones.
Read how we are improving the health and wellbeing of marginalised and underserved communities - REE blog.
Read about how we are designing and developing real products that help people to live better for longer - REE blog.
Our researchers are working to resolve the challenge of understanding the pathogenesis of Alzheimer’s, in an ever-increasing ageing population, with the hope of identifying earlier interventions for the disease.
Healthcare testing and treatment in some of the world’s malaria hotspots has been significantly improved thanks to participatory interventions designed by UWE Bristol.
Our collaborations with global healthcare and tech leaders are helping to improve treatment outcomes for oral care, thanks to improved and novel products.
The support available for people across the world born with cleft lip or palate has been vastly improved by the work of UWE Bristol researchers.
Researchers at UWE Bristol have created an online toolkit that will improve dementia service provision for people from South Asian communities.
Thousands of people across the world are benefiting from a self-management intervention for hip, knee and back pain developed by UWE Bristol, reducing healthcare costs in the process.
Our researchers have been working with Unilever on the Dove Self-Esteem Project global education programs, addressing the psychological, social, cultural and resource-based challenges to improving self-esteem and body image among young people.
Our researchers have harnessed the glow-in-the-dark properties of bacteria to help some leukaemia treatment sufferers.
Studies carried out by UWE Bristol have helped promote and strengthen the position of Britain’s Overseas Territories in the aftermath of Brexit.
UWE Bristol research has led to improved teamwork between healthcare professionals during hospital emergencies.
The findings from UWE Bristol research into children's communication have directly influenced major policy reports and have improved therapy practice.
In partnership with the NHS, commercial, charity and independent sector partners, we're developing innovative, patient-centred models for integrated health, social care and wellbeing.
Harnessing creativity and technology to power economic growth, we're working with industry and the public sector to develop skills, talent, and innovation for the future economy.
We're tackling global challenges by promoting social justice, empowering communities and protecting the environment, helping to make Britain a Clean Energy Superpower.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/rise/harnessing-creativity-and-technology:
Answering the challenges faced by our society.
Find out how we're changing the mindset around data and its use.
A team at UWE Bristol is co-creating and developing technology and tools that work for the greater good of everyone, everywhere - REE blog.
UWE Bristol's Unconventional Computing Lab is producing liquid computing and biological computers, that can be recycled easily - REE blog.
Read how our research is boosting resilience in our creative and cultural industries -  REE blog.
Our research is ensuring that immersive technologies act in the interests of human rights - REE blog.
Our expert printmakers and digital specialists are helping to craft the future of print for artists and commercial producers.
UWE Bristol experts are taking a crucial role with driverless cars and how they interact with other road users including buses, cyclists and pedestrians.
UWE Bristol research has led to changes in public data sharing laws around the world after proving that a risk-averse approach was ineffective.
Fresh insights into Artificial Intelligence, are transforming the way confidential data is processed and publicised by UK government and statistical bodies.
Activists, artists, filmmakers and exhibitors have joined forces as part of the world’s largest alternative film network.
Once the preserve of a niche audience, artists’ books have been reframed as a widely accessible art form, connecting artists with fans and collectors.
Our research and our support of Bristol's film industry has led to the city being awarded UNESCO City of Film status.
Innovative techniques developed at UWE Bristol for measuring the dimensions of difficult solid objects automatically are now being used commercially.
From wearable technology that will give people the power to monitor their health, to futuristic composite materials that will make transport more environmentally sustainable, researchers at UWE Bristol are on the case.
Public engagement in the criminal justice system has been enhanced by our work, thanks to an innovative and digitised approach to capturing the history of the UK’s courthouses.
UWE Bristol research has had a major influence on the teaching, reading and writing of children’s literature, at home and abroad.
Driving innovation in health and social care education, workforce and technology to create a system that prioritises prevention, community-based care and digital transformation.
Undertaking fundamental and applied research in computer science.
The Digital Cultures Research Centre (DCRC) is a loose-knit, collaborative and anti-disciplinary network of researchers distributed across UWE Bristol.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/rise/enriching-culture-place-and-community:
Creating a better place for people to live, work and be.
We collaborate with national policymakers, local authorities, educators, and industry to improve public spaces, infrastructure and communities.
Find out how we are working internationally to improve the support families of those who have gone missing or lost their lives while migrating.
Find out how our research is understanding food security and vulnerability in Bristol.
Read how our research shows extreme volunteering can create a space for equality, inclusion and transformation.
In this blog our researchers explain how their personal experiences in motherhood during COVID have shaped policy to recognise the intense, essential labour that new mothers manage.
Find out what we are doing to empower women in male dominated spaces such as aerospace.
Research by Professor Shawn Sobers is uncovering unheard stories and amplifying voices that haven’t been heard in the mainstream - REE blog.
Graham Parkhurst, Professor of Sustainability, Centre for Transport and Society gives his reaction to the news of a £800 million public transport investment for WEMCA.
Read about how we are supporting Black British literature in secondary schools - REE blog.
Our research is co-developing insights, leading to new tools that protect and save the lives of construction workers - REE blog.
The life and work of one of the 21st century’s most canonical writers have been reconnected to the city of Bristol, amplifying the city’s cultural kudos.
People subjected to pre-trial detention in courts across England and Wales now stand a better chance of a fair hearing thanks to research by UWE Bristol.
Improving society’s attitudes and involving communities in rehabilitation programmes is key to preventing repeat sexual offences, say UWE Bristol researchers.
We are helping to ensure that transport policymaking is more robust in addressing changing patterns of travel behaviour.
Traditional top-down approaches to heritage interpretation have been flipped on their head by UWE Bristol experts.
UWE Bristol research has informed the BBC and community groups in working together to widen the range of voices in local news.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/rise/securing-a-green-resilient-future:
Safeguarding our planet.
Through collaboration, we’re driving the green economy and helping make Britain a Clean Energy Superpower.
Discover how we’re building the evidence for a green economy that works for everyone.
Our research is trying to  understand the impact of microplastics on both human and ecosystem health - REE blog.
By making complex research familiar and easy to access, our research is helping people to be more sustainable - REE blog.
Households, insurance companies, construction professionals and businesses have been encouraged to do more to tackle flood risks, thanks to UWE Bristol.
Innovative methods for improving the quality and health of water, food and people.
Investigations led by our experts in marine and fisheries law have played a critical role in establishing proper legal practices and lobbying for greater safeguards.
We are working with policymakers and community groups across Europe, putting people at the heart of environmental change, to facilitate lasting change to the world’s air pollution crisis.
Nature-friendly urban developments are springing up across the UK, propelled by in-depth collaborative research by UWE Bristol.
Our experts in transport policy are working internationally to bridge the gaps in cycling infrastructure to bring the many advantages of cycling to our cities.
Sustainable technology is helping to resolve sanitation and safety issues for thousands of people at schools, humanitarian projects and music festivals.
A collaborative approach to maximise the support available to farmers in Laos has significantly bolstered the national economy and the individual income of hundreds of households.
New methods for predicting uptake of radioactivity by plants are transforming how the environmental impact of nuclear activity is managed.
A research team at UWE Bristol have taken an in-depth look at the risks suburbs face, joining forces with residents to test ideas and create change.
Climate Education is a free online course for all students, available through Blackboard.
Find out more about the Centre for Advanced Built Environment Research, UWE Bristol including research themes, projects or get in contact.
A leading provider of information, advice, research and consultancy around air quality and carbon management.
More information about the Centre for Sustainable Planning and Environments, UWE Bristol.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/news/rural-housing:
Media Relations Team,                        16 July 2025
A new report from countryside charity CPRE, produced with UWE Bristol researchers, has revealed a concerning picture of under-supply and inadequate planning for social housing across England’s 84 rural local authorities.
The new research reveals that only 20 per cent of rural local authorities have set specific targets for social rent housing in their Local Plans, the documents that set out the long-term development needs for an area.
Several rural local authorities have no plans to build any new social housing.
The report follows a decision by the government to scrap rural targets for new affordable homes in its new Social and Affordable Housing Programme.
CPRE research shows that there are currently more than 300,000 people on waiting lists for social housing in rural England.
While the recent adoption of the government’s new way to calculate housing demand (the Standard Method) has led to an overestimation in some parts of the country, the new research shows that 79 per cent of rural local authorities have consistently under-supplied new homes compared to the number of new households.
Housing shortfalls range from 41 homes in Wyre to a staggering 28,625 homes in Dorset.
Between 1997 and 2023, ‘affordable’ homes, defined as costing up to 80 per cent of market value, made up a consistent 31 per cent of total housing delivery.
However, this figure varies dramatically across different areas, ranging from just two per cent in Horsham to 61 per cent in North Warwickshire.
Danni Sinnett , Professor of Sustainable Built Environments at UWE Bristol, said: “Housing in much of rural England is unaffordable for local people and robust planning policies are essential to delivering more affordable homes and reducing inequality.
“Whilst this study found examples of really strong policies for social housing in some rural authorities, in others the policy requirements were more modest and did not appear to be based on the evidence of local need.”
In light of the findings of the study, CPRE is calling on the government to make the inclusion of social housing and affordable homes a condition of planning permission for all new development, and support Homes England to help rural local authorities to increase the delivery of new social and affordable homes.
20 May 2025
Short films exploring Black people’s experiences of stroke have been released as outputs from a research project led by UWE Bristol and Kingston University.
14 May 2025
A team of scientists, led by Visiting Professor Alessandro Chiolerio, has discovered that spruce trees can anticipate and respond to a solar eclipse.
12 May 2025
Individuals with dietary needs are choosing not to attend outdoor events because of the risks they associate with the experience, according to new research by UWE Bristol.
With over 6,000 students and 450 staff, our interdisciplinary approach to teaching, research and partnerships creates new opportunities for our students, our staff and the communities we serve.
A broad-based intellectual community committed to an inter-disciplinary approach to the creation and management of sustainable buildings, whether they are in urban or rural environments, residential or commercial, new or refurbished.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/news/visible-difference-support-hub:
Academics from the Centre for Appearance Research (CAR) at UWE Bristol collaborated with national charities to develop the free-to-access Visible Difference Support Hub , providing help for people with conditions, treatment, or injuries that affect how a person looks.
This includes burn injuries, skin conditions, limb loss, craniofacial conditions, alopecia, scarring and many other differences in appearance.
More than 1.1 million people in the UK have a visible difference of some kind.
Research by the team at CAR has explored the challenges often faced by people living with a visible difference in a society that seems obsessed with appearance, and led them to create resources to help.
The new website is a comprehensive collection of tried-and-tested resources that have been brought together to support people who might be struggling with problems such as other people’s reactions, bullying, or feeling self-conscious or nervous about new relationships.
The resources come in a variety of formats, including an e-book, podcasts, videos, booklets and even a board game.
Based on years of robust research by the internationally recognised team of experts at CAR, the resources have been informed by input from people with lived experience of visible difference and well-established psychological principles.
All 13 resources on the website have been rigorously evaluated to ensure they will benefit people living with a visible difference.
Diana Harcourt , Professor of Appearance and Health Psychology at CAR, said: “The psychological and social impact of a visible difference can be substantial, so we’re very pleased to be launching this unique website, offering support through a range of resources, free of charge, all of which are backed by scientific evidence.
“Much of the support currently available for people with visible differences and their families comes from wonderful but overstretched and under-resourced NHS teams and charities.
That support hasn’t always been rigorously tested and isn’t always immediately available.
“Because of the research we’ve been doing, and because these resources available through the hub are based on solid psychological approaches, we can be confident that they are going to be helpful.
“I see it as helping people develop a toolbox of coping strategies.
By making our resources easily available, we are putting more tools into their toolbox so there’s more chance that they’ll have something that can help them when they’re in a difficult situation.
“We hope the hub will make a real difference to people with visible differences and their families, and that it will also be useful to health professionals and teachers, and people who want to challenge negative attitudes towards visible difference.”
"Most of the resources we've created are generic - they could help people who have a skin condition, or who have lost a limb, or have a burn injury or scar.
The challenges people face are often similar, regardless of the particular type of condition or injury they have."
Professor Diana Harcourt
The resources were created with input from an advisory group of representatives from 12 support organisations as well as health professionals.
The website gives information about the research that has been conducted for each resource.
More resources will be added to the website in the coming months and years.
Prof Harcourt said: “There are resources that people can access immediately, whether that’s a booklet to read, a video to watch, a podcast episode to listen to or an app to download.”
Dr Maia Thornton , a Senior Research Fellow in CAR who developed some of the resources on the website, said: “A good example of how the website could help is to think of a parent who’s awake in the night worrying about their child who has a visible difference - they probably can’t talk to another parent at that particular moment but they could go to the hub and find other people's experiences similar to their own or download booklets that can help them to manage their own worries, as well as support their child.
The website makes support available at any time of day.”
Prof Harcourt added: “The website could also help someone who is on a waiting list to see a clinical psychologist.
They could access the hub to get support in the meantime, while they're waiting to see the specialist.
It could fill a gap, rather than leaving a person thinking there's nothing they can do.
“It could also help someone with a visible difference who is looking for a new job.
Interviews are often stressful, but they can be particularly difficult for people with visible differences who might be worried they'll be judged because of how they look.
They can go to the hub for support and to develop skills to build their confidence, which could help them manage that particular situation.”
Many of the resources on the hub have been developed for people with any kind of visible difference, and their families, although there are also some resources specific to particular conditions such as burns, eczema or craniofacial conditions.
Prof Harcourt said: “Most of the resources we've created are generic - they could help people who have a skin condition, or who have lost a limb, or have a burn injury or scar.
The challenges people face are often similar, regardless of the particular type of condition or injury they have.
Typically, this includes managing other people's reactions such as staring, commenting or asking questions, receiving negative comments on social media, being worried about bullying at school or being concerned about romantic relationships.
Those are common worries and concerns, regardless of the type of visible difference.
We’d love people to explore the website and use the resources, which we hope will make a real difference to them.”
Hannah Cree, Head of Support at the charity Caring Matters Now , one of the support organisations that worked on the resources included in the hub, said: “Finally there is a place which hosts a breadth of research under one umbrella.
“This is an accessible, research-based resource which will benefit both members of the public and medical professionals, regardless of any prior knowledge and experience.”
Illustrations on the website were created by Abbi Bayliss, a former UWE Bristol student.
The website development was funded by the university through a successful application to the Engagement & Impact Fund (2023-25).
Several researchers from CAR were involved in the development of the hub, along with UWE Bristol colleagues Ana Ribiero and Neil Leonard.
The Visible Difference Support Hub website is available at www.VisibleDifferenceSupportHub.com
03 June 2025
Centre for Appearance Research, UWE Bristol.
If you want a career in social sciences, our inspiring courses will teach you to apply what you've learnt so you can start making a difference as soon as you graduate.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/news/enginuity-skills-awards:
Media Relations Team,                        07 July 2025
UWE Bristol has been named Training Provider Skills Champion of the Year at the Enginuity Skills Awards for its commitment to driving inclusive growth in the engineering industry and closing the skills gap in the West of England.
The awards recognise individuals and organisations who are supporting the next generation of engineering professionals and fostering a culture of innovation, diversity and collaboration in the industry.
The Training Provider Skills Champion award celebrates an organisation with an outstanding commitment to learning and skills development that supports sustainable engineering and manufacturing growth through partnerships between providers and employers.
UWE Bristol has supported over 1,000 engineering and built environment degree apprentices since 2017, with achievement rates up to 100%.
Its Women in Industry project addresses skills and diversity gaps by partnering with employers and Science, Technology, Engineering and Maths networks, boosting female applicants by 60% in a year.
This includes Women Like Me , a peer mentoring and outreach project dedicated to increase female representation in engineering and construction.
Led by Dr Laura Fogg Rogers since 2018, it pairs senior female engineers and property professionals with junior counterparts, fostering mentoring relationships.
The judges recognised that UWE Bristol is working to close the skills gap and make the industry more inclusive through mentoring, outreach and partnerships.
Simon Flenley, Assistant Director of Research & External Engagement at UWE Bristol said: “We are so proud of our apprenticeship programmes, and the opportunities they provide for increasing access and participation and addressing under representation.
This award reflects the hard work and dedication from so many people, underpinned by the critical projects that UWE Bristol delivers such as Women Like Me.”

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/research/centres-and-groups:
We have a reputation for conducting research which is of direct relevance to arts, industry, society and the environment, combining academic excellence and policy relevance.
We have built an international reputation for research in the fields of Law, Business Management, Marketing, Accounting and Finance and Economics.
With strong links to partners in the NHS, education and commercial sector, plus fantastic labs and facilities, our research is leading the way in both academia and industry.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/business/university-enterprise-zone:
UWE Bristol proudly supports start ups and businesses through our University Enterprise Zone (UEZ) and beyond.
The University Enterprise Zone (UEZ) provides opportunities and outstanding spaces for a thriving community of start ups, fast-growth businesses, graduate entrepreneurs and cooperative research in the high-tech, robotics, digital and health-tech sectors.
It’s the perfect space in which to work, share and collaborate.
Technology and world-class research facilities include the start up and fast-growth business spaces Future Space, Launch Space and the BRL Hardware Incubator, as well as lab facilities Health Tech Hub and the Robotics Innovation Facility (RIFBristol).
They all share the Hub and café area, an inspiring space for meetings, networking and events.
Our START programme supports those with a great idea that need help bringing it to life.
Innovation centre and community hub for start ups and fast-growth businesses in the digital, robotics, high-tech and med-tech sectors.
With wet-labs, offices, workshops and co-working space.
Launch Space has worked with hundreds of early-stage tech founders to help make their businesses successful.
Start up space for hardware development businesses, focused on robotics and automation-related products, devices and technologies.
It provides desk space, fabrication facilities, networking opportunities and technical support.
Providing robotics, automation and advanced manufacturing consultancy services to organisations, large or small, to overcome innovation challenges.
Equipped with a range of cutting-edge hardware that can be used for research purposes, training courses, prototyping and the testing of new products.
Provides lab space and facilities for businesses to develop health technologies in collaboration with the University.
It offers tailored R&D support for product development and prototype testing with state-of-the-art labs and product design suites.
Research events take place across the University and wider community throughout the year.
Researchers at University Enterprise Zone are involved in projects of regional, national and global significance.
Services for businesses and start-ups including innovation and enterprise opportunities, professional development and student and graduate recruitment.
Facilities on campus to support careers and enterprise including the University Enterprise Zone and Student Ventures.
Find out how you can work with us on research to drive your business forward.
UWE Bristol has a strong record of public and community engagement that traverses a wide portfolio of civic activities.
We are a future-facing, locally embedded, anchor institution with global reach.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/rise/harnessing-creativity-and-technology/tracing-data:
The CRISTAL software system was initially developed to lend 24/7 support for the construction and installation of the complex scientific experiments being conducted at CERN’s Large Hadron Collider (LHC) in Geneva.
Based on research by Richard McClatchey, Professor of Applied Computer Science, the system provided a dynamic software solution for managing over 200 terabytes of CERN’s LHC detector data and the complex workflows associated with producing it.
CRISTAL has since been translated into open source and commercially available variations, enabling companies across Europe to adapt to the evolving needs of their users in a rapidly changing technology landscape.
The CRISTAL-ISE software, the subsequent version developed by a team of UWE Bristol researchers working at CERN, was designed to manage data in a way that allows information to be traced back to its origins and describes how the data is processed and used.
This enables full traceability of the data in operation for maintenance and support purposes.
Part of the system’s unprecedented efficiency and flexibility lies in its description-driven approach, whereby it works with descriptions of objects used in any given logistical scenario.
These descriptions evolve in-line with the changing needs and experiences of users, which means the system adapts to evolving needs over time.
Working with the French software development company Agilium, CRISTAL-ISE was adapted to meet the needs of industry and clinicians.
Using a built-in Virtual Research Environment, it allows users to track data such as business information, laboratory results, patient records and images.
The system not only gives users the tools to track data and monitor how information use used, it provides a space for collaboration and development between organisations.
For Agilium, CRISTAL-ISE has led to significant cost reductions and an increase in revenue to the estimated tune of 2 million Euros by 2020.
Several of the company’s clients have benefited from the software’s capability to save time by operationalising workflows and business processes.
These include a specialist aerospace painting company and the French utilities and waste water industries.
The software has since been adapted by the Swiss company iCube, experts in digitisation and industrial automation, to support the production of medical isotopes used for the treatment of cancer, and for production processes in Switzerland’s dairy industry.
iCube’s application has been used by AdAcAp Smart Pharma, lending greater security and quality control to its data processes.
The resulting improvements in the company’s ability to release new products led to a recorded income of more than 100 million Euros in 2016/17.
UWE Bristol is proud to align our research to the UN sustainable development goals .
The above research aligns with the following goals:
The  College of Arts, Technology and Environment (CATE) has a well-established and continuously developing research environment.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/rise/harnessing-creativity-and-technology/cyber-crime:
Helping authorities worldwide to tackle financial crime.
Being as vast and intangible as it is, the internet has proved one big loophole for cyber criminals – until now.
Turning the tables on fraudsters is the raison d’etre of experts in cyber security and financial crime, who are helping police forces across the world to close in.
“We know that the rapid exchange of information between cyber criminals, and the lack of information sharing across police forces and countries is a major barrier to success in tackling the issue,” says Professor Phil Legg , Associate Professor of Cyber Security.
“Our goal is to work with police forces to understand what tools they currently lack and how we can help by using our research intel to come up with a solution.”
Phil worked alongside Professor Nic Ryder, Professor of Financial Crime, on a multidisciplinary project to address the evolving nature of crime online, and to develop technological solutions for facilitating law enforcement in this globally connected space.
Much of Nic’s work has already helped shape improvements in how law enforcement agencies across the world tackle terrorism financing and money laundering.
As well as training police authorities in Rome, the Netherlands and the UK, he has worked with NATO, the UK Home Office and the Centre of Research Evidence and Security Threats (CREST).
A seminal piece of work is the development of a fraud typology that enables agencies to identify where financial crime is being used to fund terrorist activity.
The typology is a robust toolkit based on evidence from convicted terrorism cases, which revealed how terrorism is often connected to fraudulent activity in areas including immigration, identity theft, credit cards, tax, student loans and insurance.
"We’ve made a series of recommendations that encourage law enforcement&nbsp;agencies to use this typology as a checklist if they suspect someone of terrorism, and to facilitate information exchange between security services and&nbsp;tax and revenue agencies, so that they can intervene early enough."
Professor Nic Ryder Financial Crime
One of the major gaps that Nic and Phil plan to address is the lack of communication between law enforcement authorities.
Their collaborative project, MODEiT (Money Laundering Detection Using Enhanced Information Technology), involves partnerships with industry stakeholders across Europe, including government authorities, businesses, academics and law enforcement agencies.
Among the challenges being explored is the need to develop an understanding of how criminals use encrypted information systems and digital assets – such as blockchain and cryptocurrency – as well hidden internet sites such as the dark web, in order to equip police forces with the tools and insights to identify and disrupt their activities.
“We know that police forces need to coordinate and improve their response,” adds Phil.
"Pooling our expertise on machine learning, data visualisation, and cyber security, and applying these to online data exchanges such as blockchain and the dark web, we will develop tools and guidance on how to improve threat detection, analysis and response time for investigating coordinated cybercrime."
Professor Phil Legg Associate Professor of Cyber Security
A forum for research activity in the field of financial crime, criminal justice and procedure, serious organised crime and cyber security.
Details about the Financial Crime and Cyber Crime Research Network at UWE Bristol.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/rise/harnessing-creativity-and-technology/digital-ethics:
Balancing creativity with ethics on and off screen.
What happens when you give people the power to raise the dead?
Aside from the creative potential for screen directors to shock audiences into paying attention, the deep fake phenomenon which does precisely that, raises a host of ethical and legal challenges.
Who better to test the balance of such powers than Maggie Thatcher…
Digital face replacements are commonplace in the high budget film industry, with the widespread use of CGI and digital effects by Disney and the Star Wars franchise, among others.
Since 2017 the open source, lower resolution alternative of deep fakes has become widespread, providing an affordable means of translating existing images into a simulated context.
For television and film directors like UWE Bristol’s Dr Dominic Lees, Associate Head of Department, Filmmaking, this is interesting territory that poses both creative and ethical questions when it comes to examining a director’s intentions and the potential for shifting perceptions.
“We have a moment in technological development that is really exciting,” says Dominic.
“It’s the democratisation of what has been an extremely elite part of the studio and film process for some years.
Philosophically, it raises questions around why we would want to do this, how we do it, and whether we even ought to.”
These are the questions that Dominic is exploring in collaboration with colleagues from Law, and Engineering and Technology, via the Virtual Maggie project, digitally resurrecting the former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher for a contemporary short film set in the 1980s.
Having filmed several scenes with a real actor, they are now testing out open source (artificial intelligence) AI technology to recreate the actor’s scenes with a simulated version of Thatcher’s face.
Dominic says: “It’s both interesting and rattling to consider whether I want people to completely believe that this is Margaret Thatcher, which I could never do because the audience knows she wasn’t alive when I was shooting this film?
Or whether I want it to be slightly unbelievable so that viewers are aware of the artifice of what I’m doing, and appreciate the fakeness?”
"Virtual Maggie is a provocation that tests out the current state of play in terms of how believable a deep fake actor&nbsp;can be made on screen."
Dr Dominic Lees Associate Head of Department, Filming
Much of the debate surrounding deep fakes has been doused in moral panic, owing to how the technology has been used for nefarious purposes in the US elections and to manipulate the faces of celebrities in revenge porn.
But there is enormous creative potential that merits greater exploration.
Given that deep fake machine learning has yet to go mainstream, this is a pivotal moment where UWE Bristol, working with an international network of scholars, industry regulators and the British Film Industry, hopes to strike a workable balance between creative intention and cultural impact.
Dominic adds: “The ideal response would be to create a set of guidelines where creative practitioners are able to use this technology in a way that explores the positive cultural and creative possibilities.”
Research in the School of Arts maintains our established reputation, nationally and internationally, across a range of disciplines.
Screen Research explores the moving image at all points along the value chain from production to its after-life in culture.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/rise/shaping-integrated-healthcare/safer-drugs:
Research led by David McCalley , Professor in Bioanalytical Science, has sped up the development process and reduced costs associated with testing, creating and monitoring therapeutic drugs targeted at conditions that have otherwise proved resistant to regular antibiotics.
The benefits for clinicians, patients and companies like GlaxoSmithKline have proved so significant that the work led by Professor McCalley was recognised as one of the world’s 100 most influential analytical scientists by the journal The Analytical Scientist in 2013, 2015, 2019 and 2021.
Multi-drug resistant (MDR) bacterial infection is a growing problem in Europe and the UK, which has seen high rates of MDR-tuberculosis.
The issue has been compounded by the lack of reliable, non-toxic therapeutic options.
As a last resort, colistin antibiotics are used for MDR-tuberculosis infections, and streptomycin antibiotics for sepsis.
However, before UWE Bristol’s work, the lack of accurate testing of either drug and the presence of impurities led to under and over-dosing.
Under-dosing leads to ineffectual treatment while over-dosing can result in toxic side effects of the drug.
In the case of tuberculosis, this can lead to loss of hearing and balance, while in sepsis, it can lead to renal (kidney) damage.
Professor McCalley and his team explored new aspects of an analytical technique drawing on over a decade’s worth of scientific insights into high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), a laboratory method for analysis of very low concentrations of chemical compounds in drug formulations and biological fluids.
While HPLC is widely used for chemical analysis, before UWE Bristol’s work, some important aspects of the technique were poorly understood, leading to wasteful trial-and-error approaches in method development.
The new liquid chromatography mass spectrometry tests (LC-MS) developed by Professor McCalley’s team increased the precision and quality of the measurements.
Drugs used to treat MDR infections that previously defied analysis can now be quickly and accurately measured in biological fluids.
Drug formulations can also be tested for the presence of potentially dangerous impurities.
This work is highly relevant to companies like GlaxoSmithKline when developing methods for the analysis of new drugs, or testing the shelf life of drug formulations.
UWE Bristol’s methodologies have been successfully used by hospital-based staff at the Antimicrobial Reference Laboratory (ARL), including the sole commercial test for streptomycin in Europe.
Located at Southmead Hospital in Bristol, the ARL is the largest provider of antimicrobial therapeutic drug monitoring in the country, serving more than 240 laboratories across the UK and Europe.
As a consequence, the laboratory tests have helped clinicians to improve patient care throughout Europe by administering safe but effective doses of streptomycin and colistin based on more accurate monitoring of these drugs in biological fluids.
GlaxoSmithKline has applied Professor McCalley’s methodologies to create shorter, more effective screening processes especially in the drug discovery process, helping to reduce turnaround times, while reducing in some cases running costs by approximately 50%.
Research centres and institutes in the College of Health, Science and Society at UWE Bristol.
Find out what areas of research they focus on and much more.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/rise/harnessing-creativity-and-technology/visual-storytellers:
Gary Embury is a Senior Lecturer in Illustration whose own work has been exhibited at galleries across the UK.
As an internationally connected practitioner, and winner of the prestigious Association of Illustrators Gold Award, he is perfectly placed to show how traditional analogue drawing is making a comeback.
Since the dawn of digital journalism and a 24-hour rolling news stream, reportage drawing has taken something of a backseat compared with the perceived credibility of the photographic image.
Embury’s research, combined with his practical experience as an illustrator, challenged this assumption and showed that artists do in fact have a role to play in shifting people’s understanding of what is real.
In 2013, Embury set up the web-based journal and platform Reportager , encouraging artists, art directors, journalists and academics from across the world to discuss how they could play a more proactive role in contemporary society.
Rather than being relegated to a passive role of simply producing something to accompany text, they were inspired to reposition themselves as alternative scrutinisers and narrators of events.
The resulting work has seen visual artists share their work via online, digital and analogue means.
Simultaneously, it has uplifted previously unknown and early career artists, providing a fresh perspective compared with traditional print and broadcast news.
In 2013, Embury co-founded and delivered a Residency Programme at the London studio of Feliks Topolski, one of the 20th century’s most prolific illustrators.
Former residents have gone on to make their living as lecturers, curators, artists and researchers.
The programme also prompted collaborations with artists in residence at Chelsea and Westminster Hospital.
The global status of visual journalism was further boosted by Embury’s founding of The International Reportager Drawing Award, the first award and exhibition of its kind.
A total of 350 images were exhibited, with entries from the US, China, Mexico, Uganda, South Korea and Australia.
Sponsors of the award, global company Moleskine, also funded two awards and drawing travel bursaries – a professional award to India and a student award to Cuba.
Embury’s 2016 project, Reflections, again brought international journalists, photographers and artists together to curate a parallel exhibition in Nepal and the UK.
Public perceptions were also changed when in 2018, Embury gave a sold-out public lecture at The House of Illustration, a London-based public arts organisation founded by Sir Quentin Blake.
In 2019, he gave an open public lecture at London’s V&A, emphasising the powerful role of reportage illustration in the changing media landscape.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/about/values-vision-strategy/strategy-2030:
Powering the future workforce, supporting local economic prosperity, shaping the health and sustainability of our communities and creating solutions to global challenges.
Solving future challenges through outstanding learning, research and a culture of enterprise.
Creating opportunities to thrive and flourish.
Creating an inspiring local and global gateway to the future.
"Looking forward to 2030, UWE Bristol will be a market disrupter, leading future trends and approaches to solve future challenges, create opportunities and shape our communities across the region and beyond."
Steve West Vice-Chancellor, President and CEO, UWE Bristol
Download the UWE Bristol Strategy 2030: Transforming Futures (PDF)
View all strategy documents

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/business/community-engagement/integrated-care-academy:
The Integrated Care Academy (ICA) at UWE Bristol is an exciting partnership being created with our NHS, commercial, charity and independent sector partners across local and regional health and social care systems.
We envisage collaboratively creating a health and social care system that fosters new patient-centric and sustainable models for health, social care and wellbeing that become best practice in the UK and beyond.
As the South West’s inaugural ICA, our centre of excellence unites individuals, organisations, industry, networks and partnerships, establishing a dynamic living lab, dedicated to pioneering novel approaches for research, teaching, enterprise and technology transfer.
We’re pleased to introduce our new podcast series Let's Talk Health and Care , which takes a closer look at topics associated with workforce development, applied research with impact and positive societal change.
Each episode will take a deep dive into a topic to address how we can effectively transform health and social care for our communities.
The ICA brings together clinicians, academics, researchers and system leaders to create new delivery pathways.
It links higher and further education to create innovative learning pathways for learners across key networks leveraging new and established partnerships.
The ICA develops new educational and workforce pathways, leading to new professional disciplines that directly address modern challenges.
It enables us to equip health and social care professionals with the skills to work collaboratively at every level, placing patients and carers at the centre of designing and delivering new care pathways.
Our ICA seeks to develop, improve, and test the service delivery models of the future, equipping workforces with the skills to continuously challenge, reinvent, and refine health and care practices.
"My role has demonstrated the value of placing an intern within the ICA.
Not just to support the department and its staff, but also for other allied health students interested in pursuing research and academic roles."
Sam Pilkington ICA research intern
Sam Pilkington recently completed her studies in Diagnostic Imaging at UWE Bristol, where she received a first-class honours.
Following the completion of her degree, Sam became the first research intern within the Integrated Care Academy (ICA) at UWE Bristol.
During the two-month internship, Sam collaborated on a systematic literature review on physical activity advice-giving, for which an abstract is being presented at the International Society for Physical Activity and Health Conference in Paris (November 2024).
She contributed to data collection, analysis and presentation for other projects, including a local evaluation exploring the impact of a digital self-management intervention in primary care.
Sam also worked on submitting a College of Radiographers Industry Partnership Scheme (CoRIPS) grant.
This will explore perceptions of autism within the radiography profession, with the hope of launching a wider body of work on neurodiversity within Allied Health Professions.
Sam is due to commence her graduate role as a Diagnostic Radiographer at the Royal Shrewsbury Hospital in late October.
Professor Marc Griffiths, Pro-Vice Chancellor for Health introduces the Integrated Care Academy – Core Principles.
Our ICA leverages additional strengths in education, training, research and evaluation, together with effective industry partnerships, to tackle three significant challenges:
As part of the ICA at UWE Bristol, funding was secured from NHS Health Education England (HEE) to explore allied health professionals (AHPs) leadership in academia through a three part project.
A collaborative project with NHS Trusts, Integrated Care Boards (ICBs), and private operators to address skill gaps and develop radiographer-led diagnostic services in CDCs.
This NHS funded project explores the South West's approach to inclusive training within practice for healthcare students and international staff.
A teaching and learning documentary showcasing an innovative application of high-fidelity simulation to deliver multiprofessional major incident training.
UWE Bristol has secured funding from NHS England for an exciting new project to further develop sonographer skills, and enable them to expand and advance their field of practice.
This project aims to enable a diverse health workforce environment by funding and supporting diverse placement opportunities for widening participation students from the School of Applied Sciences.
UWE Bristol's has secured funding from NHS England for the procurement of equipment and software to support the delivery of training in healthcare science.
A collaborative project with NHS England and University Hospitals Bristol and Weston Foundation NHS Trust to create a diverse image library that reflects the communities it serves.
In building the ICA, UWE Bristol is delighted to collaborate with several partners across local and regional health and care systems, including:
UWE Bristol offers a diverse range of learning environments and state of the art training facilities.
These spaces provide an immersive setting for aspiring healthcare professionals to hone their skills and gain invaluable hands-on experience.
By simulating real-world scenarios in a safe and controlled environment, our trainees can confidently develop the expertise necessary to deliver compassionate, high-quality care.
Our real replica hospital ward at Glenside Campus, complete with consultation rooms, maternity and children’s unit.
The UWE Bristol Eye Clinic is a student-led service with state-of-the-art treatment rooms.
To discuss collaborative opportunities and for more information on our case studies and impact, please email ica@uwe.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/life/campus-and-facilities/city-campus/arnolfini:
One of the sites that makes up City Campus at UWE Bristol and an iconic building on Bristol Harbourside that's home to Arnolfini gallery.
The Arnolfini is one of Europe's leading centres for the contemporary arts, presenting innovative, experimental work in the visual arts, performance, dance, film, music and events, accompanied by a public programme of learning and participation activities.
City Campus shares the iconic building on Bristol’s historic Harbourside, home to Arnolfini gallery.
The Arnolfini provides a unique setting for undergraduate and postgraduate students studying Art, Graphic Design, Curating, Fashion Communication, Filmmaking, and parts of our Drama, Acting and Performance courses.
The Arnolfini houses five exhibition spaces, a theatre/cinema auditorium, Reading Room and Light/Dark Studios all housed in this Grade II listed, fully accessible building.
The ground floor Auditorium is used for lectures, drama workshops and performance workshops.
Watch The Outlaws' star, Gamba Cole, discuss nurturing talent in the screen industry at the Bristol and Bath Screen Summit at Arnolfini.
Arnolfini is Bristol’s renowned centre for interdisciplinary contemporary arts.
Located in the city centre, Arnolfini hosts international exhibitions and diverse cultural and community events to engage the public in arts and learning.
Through our uniquely rich partnership with Arnolfini, UWE Bristol staff, students and researchers work in this building too.
They share art and design studios, photography and print facilities, a VR lab, seminar rooms, student services, a PhD hub, a reading room, plus Arnolfini’s 200-seat theatre.
Arnolfini staff deliver talks, work experience opportunities, and placements for students.
There are also opportunities to attend public workshops, enabling students to get involved with community outreach projects to build their professional learning and civic engagement.
Students gain inspiration from and respond creatively to Arnolfini’s exhibitions , which are co-produced by UWE Bristol.
These exhibitions offer tangible opportunities to learn, develop and grow as practitioners.
Exciting opportunities exist for UWE Bristol’s creative students to exhibit their artwork in Arnolfini’s public galleries.
These include our annual Degree Shows and during the academic year, through projects such as The Periphery .
Artists exhibiting at Arnolfini regularly work with UWE Bristol students and researchers.
Our School of Arts and Centre for Fine Print Research collaborate with Arnolfini on running public drawing workshops, and co-hosting an evening lecture programme, The Art of the Maker .
Where to find Bower Ashton Campus, Arnolfini, Spike Island and Watershed.
Kennel Lodge Road Bristol BS3 2JT.
16 Narrow Quay Bristol BS1 4QA.
Located in the centre of Bristol on Narrow Quay, between the harbourside and Prince Street.
133 Cumberland Road Bristol BS1 6UX.
1 Canon’s Road Harbourside Bristol BS1 5TX.
Bower Ashton is the hub of City Campus at UWE Bristol for all students studying creative disciplines.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/life/campus-and-facilities/health-tech-hub:
The Health Tech Hub facility at Frenchay Campus is focused on advancing technology that enables people to live independently and manage their own health and well-being, thereby ensuring they spend the least possible time in hospital.
The 900m 2 facility is located in UWE Bristol’s University Enterprise Zone.
A researcher at the Health Tech Hub facility on Frenchay Campus.
Researchers at the Health Tech Hub facility on Frenchay Campus.
Businesses in the West of England developing health technology products can now benefit from the new £5 million centre at UWE Bristol.
The Hub offers companies tailored support for their product development and prototype testing, including access to state-of-the-art technology and specialist support from UWE Bristol academics.
It aims to boost regional economic growth, create new regional jobs and international recognition of the vibrant health and life sciences sector in the West of England.
Products in development within the facility include:
"This world class facility brings together clinicians, scientists and industry experts to solve some of the most challenging issues of health and social care practice.
I am convinced that this will deliver tangible results for patients and grow a vibrant health tech cluster and collaboration here in the West of England."
Professor Sir Steve West Vice-Chancellor and President
Funded by the European Regional Development Fund and the West of England Local Enterprise Partnership (LEP) , the Health Tech Hub is managed by a consortium led by UWE Bristol.
Other partners comprise the Health Innovation West of England , University of Bristol , Designability , Sirona and P3Medical .

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/rise/harnessing-creativity-and-technology/responsible-robots:
A pioneering roboethicist, Alan Winfield , Professor of Robot Ethics, has steered national and international debates and developments around the principles, standards, design and application of robots.
His work has earned him several awards, including the Royal Academy of Engineering Rooke Medal in 2010, in recognition of research dating back to 2006 exploring the ethical impact of robotics in society.
The foundational principles of robotics that came out of that work paved the way for the world’s first published ethical standard in robotics: British Standard BS8611 – a guide to the ethical design of robots and robotic systems.
In turn this led to Professor Winfield playing a pivotal role in the global ethics initiative led by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), a global community of innovators committed to the advancement of technology for the benefit of humanity.
Within the initiative Professor Winfield has led the development of both new general ethical principles for autonomous and intelligence systems, and new IEEE Standard 7001-2021 on Transparency of Autonomous Systems.
In collaboration with Professor Marina Jirotka from the University of Oxford, Professor Winfield is developing an “ethical black box” for robots and AI, akin to an aircraft flight data recorder, that logs robot behaviour.
This work is part of a five-year project to devise and test frameworks for ethical governance and responsible robotics for companies and organisations developing and operating social robots.
Working with Professor Michael Fisher from the University of Liverpool, Professor Winfield devised new approaches for validating robot systems and robot safety by using computer models to enable robots to predict the consequences of their actions.
Associated experimental studies demonstrated the world’s first transparent and verifiable ethical robot.
These findings were included in a special issue on machine ethics published by the IEEE, representing the most comprehensive survey in practical machine ethics at the time.
UWE Bristol’s research has gone on to inform organisational standards used by the robotics industry.
This includes best practice principles used by the UNI Global Union, an association of more than 650 unions in 140 countries with over 20 million members.
Public perceptions around robotic ethics have been significantly influenced by Professor Winfield’s contributions to hundreds of public lectures and panel debates, including the 2018 annual Institute of Physics lecture alongside Dame Wendy Hall and Jim Al-Khalili, and an appearance on the BBC’s ‘The Infinite Monkey Cage’ in 2016 with Professor Brian Cox and Robin Ince.
Multiple policy debates in the UK Government have benefited from Professor Winfield’s expertise, including a Foreign Office briefing on the risk of robotics and AI, round tables with the UK Chief Scientific Advisor, and inquiries led by select committees in the House of Commons and the House of Lords.
The SCU is internationally renowned for its diverse and innovative activities, designed to engage the public with science.
Our research covers a wide range of subjects within the fields of computer science, computer systems and information systems.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/rise/shaping-integrated-healthcare/assistive-robotics:
Intelligent robots, integrated with smart home sensors and healthcare databases, can provide the ability to realise a range of assistive care solutions to support independent living for an ageing population.
Robotics-based technologies are increasingly being recognised as important tools in helping older people with ageing-related disabilities and long-term conditions improve their quality of life and live independently for longer.
Socially assistive robots, particularly those that can navigate around a person’s home, working in conjunction with a smart home sensing system, can deliver reminders, prompts and guidance for a range of activities.
"The ability for a robot to take proactive initiative in response to specific situations anywhere in the home offers several advantages over a static tele-care system in terms of increased availability, awareness and access."
Professor Praminda Caleb-Solly Professor of Assistive Robotics and Intelligent Health Technologies
Praminda and the team at Bristol Robotics Laboratory (BRL) are leading the way in the design of assistive robots.
Their flagship projects include I-DRESS and CHIRON , both developing robotic devices to offer physical assistance.
This research is being further progressed as part of the Assuring Autonomy International Programme , where the BRL’s role is to develop safety and regulatory standards of close-proximate human-robot interaction in an unstructured environment with people with a range of sensory, cognitive and physical impairments.
It's also being progressed as part of the H2020 programme METRICS , defining the benchmarks and evaluation protocols for emerging healthcare robotics technologies.
Now more than ever there is increased consumer expectations for an Internet of Things (IoT) enabled home, driven by smart home automation systems.
The team at UWE Bristol believe that integrating assistive robots, which add value by providing a physical embodied form for these emerging platforms, is a natural next step in developing a connected assistive ecosystem.
Praminda commented “Drawing on contextual information from activity sensors within the home, and information about the user’s current physical and emotional state, assistive robots can create value through provision of interventions that are socially intelligent in regards to how, and what advice and support is provided, and adapting as needs change”.
The work in the BRL involves understanding how people and robots can interact intuitively, designing and testing robots that will be acceptable and enjoyable to use, ensuring that the technology is developed being mindful of ethical and cultural issues.
Using a person-centred approach helps the team to understand people’s context of use and perspectives of assistive technologies.
Praminda commented “By putting the user first, we can investigate potential barriers and ensure effectiveness and efficiency.
We aim to use design approaches that are inclusive, involving older people, their formal and informal carers, healthcare and social care and service providers, and clinicians”.
The BRL has also been working with Extracare Charitable Trust in a Knowledge Transfer Partnership trialling and co-designing assistive technology with older adults and carers.
This project provides evidence of the impact of assistive technologies on supporting people as they age.
Working with care providers ensures that the research is informed by best practice and experience in health and social care.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/rise/harnessing-creativity-and-technology/automated-farming:
Farming gets sustainability and environmental boost from machine learning.
The introduction of automated systems for monitoring cattle welfare and crop production, based on innovative research from UWE Bristol, is improving agricultural standards while saving costs and reducing environmental damage.
Drawing on extensive research into 3D imaging and deep learning conducted by the Centre for Machine Vision (CMV) , UWE Bristol researchers developed three separate technologies; to monitor the conditions of dairy cattle, to detect weeds in pasture fields, and for real-time monitoring of root crop production.
Using new data capture, analysis, and machine learning techniques, the University’s researchers pioneered the HerdVision system, which can quantify the body condition of dairy cattle and detect lameness by analysing movement patterns.
The system deploys 3D sensors and a novel ‘rolling ball algorithm’ developed at UWE Bristol to capture information from animals in motion.
With 96% accuracy in lameness detection, the system is a significant improvement on the subjective, labour-intensive methods farmers previously relied on.
The subsequent improvements in livestock welfare and production have already benefited 11 farms owned by Arla, the UK’s largest milk producer, which since 2020 has been using HerdVision to monitor 3,300 cows.
Advanced vision techniques similarly developed by CMV researchers underpin HarvestEye, a data capturing system that is being used by crop producers, to monitor yield and market crops more profitably by assessing the health of their fields in real-time.
Using an overhead camera mounted onto a harvester vehicle, coupled with a small detection mechanism, an optical flow tracker and GPS, HarvestEye counts and measures root crops such as potato tubers across an entire field.
The system has been successfully developed, marketed and sold by B-Hive Innovations and GRIMME UK .
UWE Bristol researchers have also been working with SoilEssentials Ltd , an established provider of precision farming products and services, to develop a system for precisely identifying weeds and targeting the use of herbicide only where needed.
The GrassVision system uses a smart camera developed on the basis of CMV’s research on the synergistic use of computer vision and the latest deep learning techniques.
Its refined approach to herbicide delivery has the capacity to reduce the total amount of crop protection products required by 90%, thereby reducing environmental damage and improving agricultural practices.
As well as introducing a new technology to the industry, UWE Bristol’s collaboration with SoilEssentials has resulted in the upskilling of the company’s employees, enabling them to explore new potential commercial opportunities.
Find out more about how the Centre for Machine Vision is a major research collaboration between UWE Bristol and the University of Bristol.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/rise/harnessing-creativity-and-technology/virtual-realities:
Thanks to advances in immersive media, other people’s lives and distant lands are all virtually up for grabs.
We can step into any realm that developers make available.
Does that mean that we should?
What about privacy, what about propaganda?
Pertinent questions that audiences are asking and our researchers are investigating.
Funded by the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC), ‘ Virtual Realities: Immersive Documentary Encounters ’ is a collaboration led by an all-women team, including Professor Mandy Rose , Professor of Documentary and Digital Cultures.
“When people try VR for the first time they are wowed by a very powerful experience,” says Mandy who is working with co-investigators at the universities of Bristol and Bath.
“We set out to interrogate the implications of the platform beyond that initial reaction.”
Since 2017, the £1.2m project has involved partnerships with industry world-leaders including BBC Research and Development and the MIT Open Documentary Lab.
Through studies in the lab and in the wild, and commissioning three path-finding VR non-fiction works, the project has built a qualitative and data-driven picture of how VR experiences are produced and received, informed by perspectives from computer-human interaction, experimental psychology and documentary studies.
Working with regional partners including Refugee Women of Bristol and Knowle West Media Centre has enabled the team to examine how mainstream audiences respond.
One key study involved giving a weekly menu of VR pieces to 35 people aged 13 and upwards in 12 diverse households across Bristol, on themes including space, the natural world and migration.
“There’s a sense in which TV supports family life by offering a shared experience.
What happens when you alter that scenario and people access content through a headset?” asks Mandy.
“For some, VR proved very compelling – offering a feeling of being there in the documentary scenes; sitting among people and witnessing their lives up close.
Others had concerns about the power of these experiences; VR felt too real, and might be used for persuasion, or even propaganda.
Either way, we found that participants had reservations about these immersive encounters.
”
Industry partnerships mean that the research is being shared with producers as part of the process.
Outputs include the first comprehensive history of English language nonfiction VR in the form of an online interactive database of more than 600 titles.
Mandy and co are working on a toolkit to help producers navigate ethical issues arising where VR meets factual material such as data, privacy and risky content.
One of the three commissions, ‘Waiting Room VR’, received the Digital Storytelling Award at the International Documentary Festival in Amsterdam.
"As producers continue to develop the creative language for VR, research like ours can play a part in shaping the field, by providing invaluable audience insight and an understanding of the technical, cultural and ethical challenges that&nbsp;come with this emerging medium."
Professor Mandy Rose School of Creative and Cultural Industries

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/rise/shaping-integrated-healthcare/biofilm-model-systems:
A system developed at UWE Bristol to measure the growth rate of microbes has been used by companies to help identify and develop dressings for wounds and products to tackle bad breath.
Research led by Professor John Greenman has developed a technique that can measure the growth and behaviour of microbes, the ‘matrix perfusion flow system’.
The microbes are grown as a biofilm on a supporting matrix made of loosely packed interconnecting strands of cellulose and supplied with a flow (‘perfusion’) of nutrients.
If the cells have been engineered to glow (bioluminesce), measurements of the emitted light can be used to monitor their growth.
Alternatively, for bacteria taken from the mouth of a volunteer with halitosis, for example, Greenman’s team can measure the emissions of hydrogen sulphide and other volatile gases.
The biofilms grow on the matrix in much the same way as they would on the area of the body it is designed to simulate, whether the inside of the mouth or a wound, for example.
The researcher can vary the conditions in which the cells grow – such as the acidity or composition of the nutrient – and observe the effects on the growth or metabolism of the microbes.
This has enabled the team to test the efficacy of formulations proposed for use as oral health products such as mouthwashes, tongue sprays and tooth gels.
The biofilm cultures could be made to behave in a very similar way to real tongue-surface biofilms.
Then, when the researchers change the conditions in controlled ways, they can watch what happens to the microbes as a result.
For example, between 2008 and 2013, tests performed by Greenman’s team informed the company GABA International (a subsidiary of Colgate-Palmolive ) in its choices of formulations for mouthwashes, helping it decide which ones were priorities to take to market.
Similarly, Greenman and colleagues have worked with Givaudan , a company that provides flavours for oral care products.
Givaudan has developed solutions identified using UWE Bristol’s approach and has sold them to major oral healthcare brands around the world, who have incorporated them into their well-known products used by millions of consumers every day.
Givaudan’s Vice President, Technology (North America) says that UWE Bristol’s in vitro model “has enabled us to increase speed to market through reduction in our flavour development time”.
He says that sales of the consumer products in the period 2008-13 may be conservatively estimated at many millions of dollars, and adds “The bar has been raised in breath freshness and much can be directly attributed to the scientific and collaborative studies of Professor Greenman's research”.
The team has also conducted clinical trials of oral health products designed to eliminate bad breath in real human volunteers.
The trials were carried out on behalf of an industrial client.
Greenman and colleagues were able to show that a test product worked extremely well, giving the company the basis to develop it further, scaling up to full commercial manufacture.
Under a new brand name, it is now distributed and sold internationally.
The team developed a new ‘gel diffusion’ flat-bed model to test films growing on flat surfaces.
The resulting technique was able to simulate the progression of microbial colonisation of wounds.
In real wounds, if this colonisation goes on to cause infection, it can substantially delay or even prevent healing, especially if the wound is complex.
In most cases there was little evidence as to whether antimicrobial dressings helped.
The way these dressings had typically been assessed only applied to highly artificial conditions.
To develop new dressings that were genuinely better at killing microbes, a new evaluation technique was needed to model the conditions found in real wounds.
It would also need to be able rank how well proposed new dressings worked compared with each other.
Greenman’s team used their flat-bed model to test prototype dressings for industrial partner Insense Ltd and its later spin-out company Archimed Ltd .
This approach succeeded in showing the product’s efficacy without the need for animal models and all the extra costs they would have entailed.
Insense’s founder says they approached Greenman because “we became aware of his excellent work on multi-species bacterial biofilms and cultures.
It quickly became clear that he and his team were ideally suited to be our partners, not just to undertake routine testing but to develop a new, more meaningful and rational approach to testing wound dressings”.
UWE Bristol’s model gave them “compelling evidence of the superior efficacy of our products” which was “of great importance in the promotion of our products and in building a basis (together with clinical performance and cost effectiveness) for their acceptance and adoption by healthcare professionals and purchasing authorities.
The products have been accepted on the National Formulary and are in use in various clinical centres in the UK and the Netherlands.”
These are just a few examples of companies that have made direct use of UWE Bristol’s research findings in a commercial context, resulting in tangible and widespread benefits to consumers of healthcare products.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/rise/harnessing-creativity-and-technology/3d-printing-of-ceramics:
Ceramic tableware companies have approached UWE Bristol to help them improve their industrial processes, using UWE Bristol’s innovative ceramic 3D printing material.
Researchers at UWE Bristol’s Centre for Print Research have developed a patented ceramic material that can be used in digital 3D printers.
The team, led by Professor Stephen Hoskins , created a technique that prints ceramic artefacts that can be fired in a kiln and glazed, in the same way as those produced using conventional techniques.
It is possible to finely control the material’s tactile qualities and other physical properties.
The research also produced a new understanding of processes through the whole of the workflow involved, such as the parameters used during firing.
Taken together, this means that the team can adapt the technique to meet a variety of needs – whether of artists, designers or industry.
This caught the attention of the ceramics industry.
Denby Pottery , a major manufacturer of tableware, was interested in using the material to produce prototypes of proposed new products.
Previously, this had only been possible using materials such as plaster.
Because the UWE Bristol printable ceramic could be fired and glazed, it was possible to make prototypes that had the same look and feel as that expected of the finished product, giving a much better impression of what it would be like – before the considerable investment required to scale it up to full production.
From 2011, UWE Bristol collaborated with Denby to demonstrate that this was commercially viable, helping to convince them that there is a clear future for 3D -printed ceramics.
“Here is a university that has already made ceramic printing a reality,” says their Senior Designer.
“We can certainly replicate things… we are really pleased with the way it is heading.”
Denby is not alone.
Other major UK tableware manufacturers – Dudson’s , Steelite and Wedgewood – have also approached the UWE Bristol team.
As well as 3D -printing of product prototypes, they were interested in using the technique to produce ‘setters’.
These are special supports that help keep ceramic products in shape while they are being fired in the kiln.
The new ceramic material itself has been licensed to US company Viridis .
Innovations from UWE Bristol are therefore adding directly to industrial competitiveness in the UK and beyond.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/rise/harnessing-creativity-and-technology/next-generation-flight-design:
Airbus needed to design faster, safer, more cost-effective aircraft so a team at UWE Bristol created 'OntoREM', a piece of software that combines advanced system requirements modelling with business requirements to achieve incredible results.
Requirements modelling has now become the standard driver for designing new pieces of technology to meet user needs.
But, while fantastic at enabling design, it doesn't make any allowance for the needs of the business.
Dr Mohammed Odeh said:
"If you're an engineer then you're constantly trying to balance your system modelling with your business requirements; such as reducing costs and sticking to the schedule."
"We wanted to create a system that would do both – making the whole process of development much quicker, more efficient and less costly, with higher quality."
It was something that had never been tried before, but Dr Odeh and his team of computer scientists believed it was an idea with great potential.
The team knew that designing this type of system would be truly challenging; it would require a totally different approach, driven by what the user knows rather than just the defined processes.
Their research resulted in both a knowledge and process driven requirements engineering platform.
It was a major breakthrough that they called OntoREM – and it wasn’t long before the Airbus team, led by Dr Mario Kossman, requested that OntoREM be used in a number of high profile case studies:
"For example, Airbus were developing a new wing and needed to integrate operational maintenance and repair aspects into the design.
OntoREM not only made this possible, it improved it and significantly reduced costs" said Dr Odeh.
OntoREM has now been used in a variety of different aircraft programs, demonstrating it can significantly improve the quality of requirements in terms of correctness, completeness and consistency.
The research has led to improvements in the resulting design solutions, and at a fraction of the cost compared with traditional aircraft design processes.
It does not come as a surprise that Airbus continues to work with UWE Bristol to industrialise OntoREM, further enabling their engineers to develop world-class aircraft:
"For companies like Airbus, accuracy is crucial.
Not just accuracy in the design and manufacturing, but also in cost estimates, risk and time management.
That's where OntoREM has really come into its own.
Our UWE Bristol research has redesigned the way engineers will approach their projects."
Dr Mohammed Odeh

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/rise/shaping-integrated-healthcare/sensing-our-health:
Across the health service, agriculture and industry, UWE Bristol researchers are developing cutting-edge technology called ‘magnetic-biosensors’ to accurately detect biological molecules.
Even in tiny quantities, these results can change lives.
Doctors need accurate, sensitive and high-speed methods of detecting changes in their patients’ health.
Previous sensing technologies meant samples had to be sent away to laboratories, and results could take days to process.
However, a new invention from a team of UWE Bristol researchers means this process can now be done in real-time.
"Ten years ago, we developed magneto-immuno assays", says Professor Janice Kiely.
"This novel biosensing technique means that we can get results on the spot, and not only that, they are cheap and reliable.
It’s proving to be critical where rapid responses are needed, such as for clinicians definitively diagnosing a heart attack in Accident and Emergency”.
The technique works by detecting target molecules binding to a biological receptor – similar to the way pregnancy tests work.
The clever development comes with the addition of a magnetic particle which is bound to the receptor.
When the target molecule binds to the receptor, the amount of magnetic particles in the sample can instantly be detected.
The technique is proving to be a hit beyond health care, as co-researcher Professor Richard Luxton explains.
“We all expect our food to be safe and meat free from disease, but the only way to ensure that at the moment is to give all animals antibiotics,” says Professor Luxton.
“That’s not good, as it can lead to antibiotic residues in our food.
So we’re working with a company to develop an on-farm test which vets can use to detect disease.
If spotted, only that animal would be given antibiotics, rather than the whole herd.”
The research team is now working with a range of partners and industries to expand the use of the new technology.
Connecting with the end-user means that UWE Bristol’s researchers can deliver solutions which meet the needs of real people in society.
"That’s what we love.
We see ourselves as problem solvers, bringing novel solutions to real people.
It’s been inspirational to see these ideas having a tangible impact."
Professor Richard Luxton

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/life/campus-and-facilities/city-campus/watershed:
The leading film culture and digital media centre in the South West, home to the Pervasive Media Studio and UWE Bristol’s Digital Cultures Research Centre.
Watershed is the leading film culture and digital media centre in the South West.
This centre aims to advance education, skills, appreciation and understanding of the arts with a particular focus on film, media, digital technologies, inclusive talent development and collaboration.
Watershed is home to the Pervasive Media Studio , a creative technologies collaboration between UWE Bristol, Watershed and the University of Bristol.
The Studio is a research space which brings together a network of over 100 artists, technologists and academics to explore the future of mobile and wireless media.
UWE Bristol use many of Watershed’s flexible spaces and theatres for teaching, screenings and events.
Our Digital Cultures Research Centre (DCRC) is based within the Studio, where some of our postgraduate modules are taught.
Within the Watershed building, you’ll also find three cinemas, a cafe/bar and a flexible conference and events space.
What's on at Watershed
UWE Bristol shares a committed partnership with the Pervasive Media Studio at Watershed, a base for the DCRC.
All three partners, UWE Bristol, Watershed and the University of Bristol, contribute their time and funding to develop talent and new ideas in the cultural and creative economy.
This collaboration has been instrumental in the DCRC leveraging £21M in external funding for research into the Creative and Cultural Industries since 2008.
The funding directly benefits UWE Bristol staff and students through grant funding, fellowships, research and development, and project support.
Watershed has supported the development and delivery of undergraduate teaching, international summer schools, postgraduate courses, postgraduate research (PhD/DPhil), and graduate residencies.
"As part of my final project for MA Curating, I curated an event at Watershed called “Out of Arcadia”, which explored our complex relationship with countryside landscapes.
This involved approaching creators who had produced thematically linked content to see if they’d be interested in showcasing their work at this event."
Steph Read MA Curating student
“As part of my final project for MA Curating, I curated an event at Watershed called “Out of Arcadia”, which explored our complex relationship with countryside landscapes.
This involved approaching creators who had produced thematically linked content to see if they’d be interested in showcasing their work at this event.
For example, I worked with experimental duo, SŌN, who developed a new audiovisual piece, Maen Mawr, as part of the season at Watershed.
Since moving to Bristol, the one thing that drew me to Watershed was their unique programme, from its year-round repertory offering to its festival hosts.
Thanks to UWE Bristol’s partnership with Watershed, I also had the chance to learn from a mentor who was working there as a cinema curator.
This opportunity gave me valuable insight into working as a curator in the film industry.
As a cultural venue, Watershed is one of the only places in the city where niche independent releases are shown.
The building feels intrinsically connected to the cultural fabric of the city, complemented by its central location on Bristol’s Harbourside.
The historic Victorian warehouse that houses this venue lends a unique sense of character.
Watershed holds a great sense of creative openness, and their programme offers a space for deeper discussion and engagement.
It’s a cultural hub where you can network and collaborate with people across many different art forms, practices and industries.
My experiences at Watershed have played a major role in supporting and shaping my career aspirations as a film programmer and curator after I graduate.”

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/life/campus-and-facilities/bristol-robotics-laboratory:
Do you want to understand and develop robotic devices that can behave intelligently, without human supervision and intervention?
You're in the right place.
Robotics students in the Engineering Design and Mathematics can create and test exciting structures or concepts using state-of-the-art facilities and equipment at the Bristol Robotics Laboratory.
And when you join us, you can get hands on with the kind of facilities most robotic engineers dream of, including:
Did you know?
BRL is multi-million pound partnership between UWE Bristol and the University of Bristol, and is the largest research facility of its kind in the UK at over 4,600 sq.
metres (50,000 sq.
feet)
As the most comprehensive academic centre for multi-disciplinary robotics research in the UK, Bristol Robotics Laboratory delivers an enviable and varied range of study opportunities ranging from undergraduate and postgraduate courses to PhDs and postdoctoral research.
Our courses include: Mechanical Engineering, Engineering, Electronics, Robotics, Aerospace Engineering, Civil and Environmental Engineering, Mechatronics and more.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/research/centres-and-groups/cate-research-overview/the-bridge-studios:
Connecting technology with creativity.
A creative space for physical-meta production, based at the heart of Frenchay Campus.
The Bridge Studios is an interdisciplinary research lab and a state of the art creative space for physical-meta production.
It was launched on 2 April 2025 by Professor Chris Smith, Executive Chair of the Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC).
It was established with a £2.3M investment from AHRC, £830,000 from the West of England Combined Authority (WECA), and funding from UWE Bristol.
It is part of AHRC’s strategic Creative Research Capability (CResCa) initiative within UK Research and Innovation's (UKRI) World Class Labs fund.
To kickstart research and innovation at the facility, £120,000 has been allocated to provide seed funding for six projects , enabling academics from the College of Arts, Technology and Environment (CATE) and collaborators to explore its potential.
UWE Bristol has also funded three PhD studentships to nurture the development of a vibrant postgraduate research community in the lab.
The space also houses the Music Interaction and Computational Arts (MICA) Lab .
This inclusive research group develops and evaluates novel technologies for creative expression, expanding the interdisciplinary scope of The Bridge Studios.
Our facilities are kitted out with the latest robotic, fabrication and immersive technologies, making us a leading space for creative research and innovation.
Our research at The Bridge Studios aims to:
This list of research themes will expand as broader users engage with The Bridge Studios.
We welcome activity outside of these themes, as long as it aligns with one or more of our aims.
Six projects have received seed funding to explore the potential of The Bridge Studios.
To find out more about us, please email The Bridge Studios at thebridge.studios@uwe.ac.uk .
You can also follow us on LinkedIn .
Read more about who we are and how to find us on campus .
The Bridge Studios is supported and made possible by the following funding bodies: Research England , UK Research and Innovation , Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC) , and The West of England Mayoral Combined Authority .
Facilities and equipment available at The Bridge Studios, UWE Bristol.
Immersive Studio and performance space at The Bridge Studios, UWE Bristol.
Robotic Fabrication Lab at The Bridge Studios, UWE Bristol
Research and innovation at the Bridge Studios, UWE Bristol.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/news/green-skills-programme-wins-prize-at-green-gown-awards:
Media Relations Team,                        09 November 2022
The Green Skills for Jobs and Entrepreneurship programme has won the Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Award at this year's Green Gown Awards which celebrate the inspirational sustainability work and projects of UK and Ireland higher education institutions.
The programme, which is led by UWE Bristol, in collaboration with NatWest and the Black South West Network, provides access to green jobs, training and business opportunities to Black, Asian and minoritised young people (aged 18 — 28), and recent graduates living in Bristol, South Gloucestershire, North Somerset, Bath and North East Somerset.
The judges commended the programme, saying "it addresses an important issue in the environmental profession.
The project has achieved so much over such a short period of time, reflecting the passion of the people involved.
A very replicable project that fits the award criteria very well."
Ninety young people have successfully completed the first stage of a transformational 'first of its kind' green skills training programme designed to empower young people with skills, knowledge, insights and industry contacts to assist them in pursuing careers in the growing green sector.
The initial phase of the project has provided each of them with access to eight days of paid training - covering energy, food, living and the circular economy, transport and air quality, Passivhaus construction, innovation and enterprise.
They have been introduced to a number of inspirational industry, community and business consultants, participated in interactive workshops, completed group activities and been provided with opportunities to reflect on their personal development and future careers through one-to-one coaching and mentoring sessions.
Stage two of the project provides the learners with the opportunity to embed their knowledge and refine the skills they have been developing through access to one of four skills pathways: a fully funded internship with a local business, a fully funded research internship at UWE Bristol, funding to cover industry training, or further learning and support to help set up a Green Tech business or Social Enterprise.
Jessica Tomico, UWE Bristol Senior Business Development Manager for Green Skills for Jobs and Entrepreneurship, said: "The Green Skills Team are delighted the programme has been recognised for its impact to support a just and inclusive transition to a green economy, and tackling the underrepresentation of people from Black and Minority Ethnic communities in environmental careers, recognising that this is the second least diverse sector in the UK.
Green skills are the building blocks we need to meet global net zero ambitions.
They must permeate every industry and sector of the economy to stimulate innovation and mobilise the workforce transition needed to address the threats of climate change.
Collective action requires equitable civic and economic inclusion of Black and Minority ethnic communities."
UWE Bristol was also highly commended in three other award categories.
Associate Professor Dr Verity Jones in the Staff Sustainability Champion category for her work embedding Sustainable Development Goals in all UWE Bristol programmes and partnership work with local schools, whilst Rupert Gale in the Research With Impact Student category for his research project findings that have contributed to South Gloucestershire Council's net zero targets for the region.
The University was highly commended in the Tomorrow's Employee category for its innovative and unique compulsory Sustainable Global Public Health module which provides undergraduate nursing students with the knowledge of public health and sustainability to be applied to healthcare in general.
The winners were announced at an awards ceremony at Loughborough University on Tuesday 8 November 2022.
View the full list of winners and finalists on the Green Gown website .
The Green Skills for Jobs and Entrepreneurship programme is funded by the UK Government’s Community Renewal Fund (CRF) and managed by the West of England Combined Authority (WECA) on behalf of the Department of Levelling Up, Housing and Communities (DLUHC).
26 September 2024
Classroom overcrowding has been eased at a township school in South Africa, thanks to money raised during the Project Zulu choir tour last year.
16 July 2024
UWE Bristol is launching a major new suite of online degrees.
In partnership with global experts in online higher education, Skilled Education, students can study Master’s degrees in Data Science, Education Leadership and Human Resource Management entirely online.
08 July 2024
A new podcast ‘Wisdom from the Global Majority’ tells the stories of both migrants and refugees in Bristol through their own words.
26 June 2024
UWE Bristol will support an international research project that will embed theatre practice to work with less heard communities who face water insecurity.
01 May 2024
New research has uncovered how the pandemic intensified and exposed the immense layers of unpaid work by mothers during maternity leave.
18 April 2024
A new UWE Bristol film poses the question 'what does it mean to be a man in 2024?'
05 April 2024
UWE Bristol has signed up to a ground-breaking agreement to address inequality and deprivation for Bristol’s low-income communities.
26 March 2024
A UWE Bristol professor is leading a new campaign which calls for a radical change across the built environment sector.
13 February 2024
A UWE Bristol academic has been given a New Investigator Award to further develop wearable sustainable e-textiles to monitor heart patients.
Dr Georgina Gough Professor for Education for Sustainable Development is one of only three professors in the UK with this remit.
05 December 2023
The University of The West of England (UWE Bristol) has won the Sustainability Institution of the Year award at this year’s Green Gown Awards.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/rise/harnessing-creativity-and-technology/critical-literacy:
Since 2016, Dr Ann Alston , a Senior Lecturer in UWE Bristol’s College of Arts, Technology and Environment, has worked with education experts across South Wales and South East England to show the importance of questioning how children’s books portray race, domestic life and identity.
Dr Alston’s research has revealed that, for more than 200 years, picture books and young adult fiction have carried a subtle ideological power.
One of the most striking findings was the prevalence of outmoded ideas of domesticity, with portrayals of the “good mother” as homemaker versus the implicitly sexualised “bad mother”.
Roald Dahl’s work, which had received relatively little critical analysis before Dr Alston’s research, was highlighted for its traditionalist undertones, including his depiction of women, race and identity.
Dr Alston drew particular attention to the problematic “othering” across Dahl’s characters.
The educational charity Cumberland Lodge was inspired by Dr Alston’s research to spark critical conversations with children.
Through workshops that have reached more than 450 children, the charity actively encouraged a more creative approach to considering how to build inclusive communities.
Dr Alston’s work on Dahl formed the basis of a webinar produced for the training provider Just Imagine, reaching 500 viewers in the UK, US, Australia, China and Pakistan.
This was followed by an article in the critically-acclaimed magazine Primary Matters, distributed to almost 3,000 primary practitioners in England and Wales.
Through keynote speeches and teacher training sessions, Dr Alston reached more than 500 student teachers, teachers and senior school leaders, giving them the knowledge and confidence to discuss stereotypes, diversify their choice of texts and change how they teach, with a knock-on effect of increasing children’s enthusiasm for reading.
Two schools in Cardiff benefited from Dr Alston’s role in delivering research-based class sessions, assemblies and Continuing Professional Development (CPD) sessions for teachers.
One of those schools was moved to invest £15,000 on diversifying its library, earning a reputation as a reading school.
It was later awarded £4,000 to showcase good practice in combining literature and science.
Dr Alston’s research also prompted her to advocate for greater diversity in the publishing world – the independent publisher Book Island, already a well-regarded company, noted that the research had further impacted the questions and criteria they applied when choosing which texts to publish and had shed light more generally on publishers as gatekeepers.
To assist with home-schooling during lockdown, Dr Alston created two online videos for Book Island, an independent publisher of picture books that saw an increase in sales after being able to directly attract young readers.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/rise/shaping-integrated-healthcare/improving-people-management:
Research at UWE Bristol has revealed that front-line managers in their role as people managers have a critical impact on operational performance.
The findings have helped a diverse range of organisations support their line managers as implementers of Human Resources policies and transformed the way they work in this area.
Selfridges, the MOD (Ministry of Defence) and the Royal United Hospitals Bath are amongst those who have benefited, and the research has also directly influenced approaches adopted by the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD), ACAS (Advisory, Conciliation and Arbitration Service), and in a variety of public policy documents.
Driven by Sue Hutchinson, Principal Lecturer and Associate Professor in the Bristol Business School at UWE Bristol, the work has delivered clear insights into the importance of line managers and team leaders in people management.
Building on earlier work that looked at the impact of people management on organisational performance, Sue’s research provided empirical evidence that line managers influence employee attitudes and behaviours through the way they approach leadership and people management, and are therefore vital to organisational success.
These findings were the catalyst for subsequent work undertaken at UWE Bristol, aimed at providing a greater understanding of the role of front-line managers, the factors that enable and inhibit their performance, and the skills, behaviours and environments that make them more effective.
This research was based around a series of case studies in order to acknowledge the context-specific nature of front-line manager roles.
Organisations of varying sizes in different sectors were involved in the study, including Tesco , Selfridges , John Lewis , the MOD , Price Waterhouse Cooper , DAS , Nationwide and a number of NHS Trusts .
The work showed that front-line managers are no longer traditional supervisors and have increasingly complex, often ambiguous roles, with growing responsibilities in the area of people management.
Surprisingly, given the importance of their positions, it was found that they are frequently overlooked, unsupported and often face considerable barriers in their role as people managers – from conflict of responsibilities and work overload, to lack of appropriate skills and inadequate training.
Research outputs have focused on practical implications, with recommendations on the skills, behaviours and support required for more effective people management.
This has resulted in positive action from many of the organisations involved in the case studies.
At Selfridges , for example, the role of team leaders was redefined and changes made to their selection criteria.
Senior management have since attributed improvements in sales performance, wage costs and labour turnover to these changes, and the business has continued to invest in training and support for line managers.
Ward managers at the Royal United Hospitals Bath have also benefited from better training and higher levels of support, as well as the introduction of a new appraisal scheme.
Improvements in ward management behaviour have been evidenced by changes in employee attitudes and reduced vacancies.
At the MOD , a senior HR manager commented that UWE Bristol research was “used to develop the organisation's research-based People Plan which defined how we would achieve an engaged, empowered and accountable workforce - which was fully aligned to the MOD 's personnel strategies.
The research was considered invaluable.”
The research has impacted on the wider HR professional community too, perhaps most significantly through the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD), the professional body for HR practitioners, where it has informed policy and the professional qualification curriculum.
A range of materials has been produced for CIPD members which reinforces the influential role line managers play in delivering HR policy, the constraints they face and the support needed from the HR function.
The UWE Bristol research also inspired the influential ACAS advisory booklet, ‘ Front-line Managers – a practical guide ’ to help senior managers get the best from their line managers covering their role, the problems they face, and the support that can be provided.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/rise/harnessing-creativity-and-technology/professional-mentoring-scheme:
This pioneering scheme has attracted the support of more than 400 mentors and mentees along with a number of organisations across the UK's aviation and aerospace industry.
An evidence-based approach to addressing the lack of mentoring support for professional women is taking shape across the UK’s aviation and aerospace industry.
Designed by UWE Bristol research, the pioneering mentoring scheme has attracted the support of more than 400 mentors and mentees and a number of organisations across the industry, and counting.
The UK’s aerospace and aviation industry has long been recognised for the under-representation of women in professional roles and a chronic skills shortage – women comprise just 4% of pilots and 10% of engineers.
Based on focus groups, interviews and a survey with around 250 professional women, employers and HR directors across the industry, UWE Bristol experts in human resource management created Alta, an online mentoring platform, alongside industry partners, “designed by women for women”.
Among the frustrations and challenges expressed by study participants was the scarcity of tailored support and the lack of a sense of community for women in male dominated industries.
The study also revealed limitations in access to female mentors who could offer advice around maternity leave, work-life balance, childcare issues and career development.
This informed the research team’s approach to creating a women-only mentoring scheme where women could feel empowered, and develop the confidence to share their experiences and offer mutual support.
The design stage was supported by Airbus, the Royal Air Force, the Royal Aeronautical Society and Little Blue Private Jets Limited, none of whom were specifically providing mentoring support for women at the time but could see the value in doing so.
The mentoring scheme, which is the first of its kind operating in the industry, has since been embedded within the Royal Aeronautical Society’s (RAeS) careers service to meet the commitment to achieving gender equality.
As well as being adopted by supporting organisations, Alta is now part of the mentoring offer provided by the likes of Airbus, Boeing UK, GKN and Collins Aerospace and offers mentoring support to women from a wide range of industry organisations, including, the Ministry of Defence, BAE Systems, Virgin Atlantic, Qatar Airways, Cathay Pacific, the Met Police, Safran Landings System and others.
By the end of 2020, only 18 months after its official launch on International Women’s Day 2019, there have been 460 individual female mentors and mentees.
Mentors are predominantly in positions such as executive board members, senior managers and squadron leaders.
The scheme proved particularly beneficial during the COVID-19 pandemic, transcending organisational and geographical boundaries, by offering support to women who may otherwise have felt isolated due to working from home, being furloughed or made redundant.
Alta has received widespread praise, with one industry expert and mentor commenting: “After years of well-intentioned but limited impact initiatives, the aerospace and aviation community is embracing gender equality initiatives, within a broader drive to improve diversity and inclusion.
Alta is, without doubt, an instrumental aspect of this journey.”

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/rise/harnessing-creativity-and-technology/engagement-with-education:
Research at UWE Bristol has helped improve young people’s participation and achievements in education.
The research stimulated new partnerships between universities, colleges and schools.
It has also influenced wider policy debate both at the national level and around the country.
Back in 2005, only 10% of young people from the Bristol South parliamentary constituency went on to higher education, compared with 42% nationally.
Why was this, and what could be done to address it?
To answer these questions, the Higher Education Funding Council for England (HEFCE) commissioned UWE Bristol to investigate.
The research was led by Professor Lynn Raphael Reed, Head of UWE Bristol’s Department of Education and Childhood (now known as the School of Education and Childhood) until her retirement in 2012, in collaboration with several UWE Bristol colleagues, including Dr Neil Harrison and Mrs Kathryn Last .
The resulting report, published in 2007, proved so valuable to HEFCE that they commissioned a second report from UWE Bristol – the ‘Four Cities Report’ – analysing and drawing together earlier reports by other researchers on three further cities.
The reasons for the lack of take-up of higher education were many and varied, and were specific to this particular locality.
Rather than passively drifting out of education as was often assumed, the young people had made active decisions: for example, they valued taking up work and family life early.
They wanted immediate benefits such as the ability to earn.
Early employment or even teenage parenthood gave them a sense of choice and control.
The reports identified the need to develop respectful relationships that could help improve schools, rather than dwelling on shortfalls in the young people, their schools, families and communities – which tended to limit what they felt they could achieve.
Importantly, the reports recommended new ‘extended partnership’ models of school governance, in which representatives from the wider local community would become involved in the governing bodies, including businesses and other groups.
Amongst these, further and higher education institutions should have a visible presence, offering their experience and expertise in the running of the schools.
UWE Bristol itself then embarked on this kind of partnership with local schools.
Starting in the Bristol South constituency, the location of the research itself, the first partnership was with the Bridge Learning Campus in 2009, an innovative new school providing for pupils across the entire age range from 4 to 19 years old.
It replaced an earlier school that had been identified as failing.
The new school’s governance system was heavily influenced by the UWE Bristol research: it is run by a trust partnership which includes UWE Bristol, City of Bristol College and Bristol City Council .
The effect on the school has been profound.
Those involved have even described it as transformational.
Compared with the school it replaced it has radically improved both community expectations and the standards actually achieved: in 2012, 45% of students achieved five or more A*-C grades in their GCSE s compared with only 11% in 2006.
Involving higher and further education providers in the management of the school, as recommended by the UWE Bristol research, has helped the school to support lifelong learning and to engage hard-to-reach and vulnerable families.
UWE Bristol went on to enter into a similar innovative partnership outside the Bristol South area.
John Cabot Academy , a successful Bristol school, had partnered with a weaker nearby school, seeding what was later to become the Cabot Learning Federation .
By 2013 this had grown into a federation of 11 schools with a central chief executive.
Primarily as a result of the research findings, UWE Bristol became one of the Federation’s principal sponsors, developing the same form of ‘extended partnership’ that proved so successful at the Bridge Learning Campus.
UWE Bristol is represented on the governing bodies of all of the Federation’s schools.
The clearer chains of accountability that have resulted from these arrangements have been a key factor in raising standards for its pupils.
This has caught the attention of policy makers at the national level.
The Federation’s success, and UWE Bristol’s contribution to it, has twice been highlighted in Michael Gove’s Academies Annual Reports to Parliament (2012 and 2013) as well as in other influential policy documents.
The successful innovations at Bridge Learning Campus drew attention to the UWE Bristol research that had inspired them.
Raphael Reed was asked to present the findings to meetings with key national bodies, including one called by Government minister, the Rt Hon Bill Rammell.
Bristol South’s own local MP , Rt Hon Dawn Primarolo, further raised their profile both locally and nationally.
This led another local school, Brislington Enterprise College, to develop new approaches to raising its students’ aspirations.
As a direct result of UWE Bristol’s research findings, it appointed new staff with that brief, and forged strengthened links with local businesses and providers of post-school education.
Dawn Primarolo has described the “significant change in the delivery of education in South Bristol,” saying that the UWE Bristol research was “influential” in bringing it about.
Raphael Reed’s ‘Four Cities Report’ has influenced policy discussions on local education provision in various parts of the UK.
It provided a model that others have followed in undertaking similar work in Hastings, Leeds, East London and Salford, for example.
In Nottingham, it was taken up by local MP Graham Allen, where it stimulated city-wide discussions on how best to widen participation in post-school education.
“Widening participation practice is certainly more subtle and sophisticated than it was before the research was carried out,” according to a senior national educationalist.
Dawn Primarolo has gone so far as to say that “the research was highly valued by education ministers in the previous Labour Government in which I served,” adding that it “informed and influenced policy”.
Its findings “continue to prove invaluable to schools, policymakers and higher education institutions”.
There is strength and diversity in the programme of educational research and evaluation at UWE Bristol.
A broad range of substantive areas of enquiry is sponsored by a wide range of funding bodies.
Information about the Education and Childhood Research Group (ECRG) based at UWE Bristol.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/rise/harnessing-creativity-and-technology/what-graduates-do-we-need:
Informing student choices and national policy
A classification scheme for graduate occupations developed in a research collaboration with UWE Bristol has become the standard tool to analyse graduate employment.
The tool has been used to:
How many graduates does the UK need, and in what subjects?
To answer that question, we first need to know how the supply of graduates compares with demand, and what roles they take up.
How has this been affected by the expansion of higher education?
These issues have been investigated in a stream of research since the late 1990s by Professor Kate Purcell, who was the Director of UWE Bristol’s Centre of Employment Studies Research until 2006, and Professor Peter Elias of the University of Warwick .
The research included two large-scale projects that each surveyed thousands of graduates on what they went on to do after completing their degrees, followed up by detailed interviews with a subset.
One key research result was the development in 2004 of a new classification scheme for graduate occupations, known as SOC ( HE ).
It moved beyond a simple binary ‘graduate versus non-graduate’ distinction.
The need for this was highlighted by the changed landscape of jobs and the recruitment requirements of employers: qualification to degree level had become typical or required in many more types of roles than before.
The first test of the scheme was when the team used it to analyse the data they had gathered from graduates, helping them to draw their research conclusions.
Since then, it has proved useful and influential in the wider world.
The SOC ( HE ) scheme went on to become the standard way of classifying graduate occupations.
The Higher Education Careers Service Unit and the Association of Graduate Careers Advisory Services work together to publish an annual report called ‘What do graduates do?’.
It is a resource that summarises what sorts of jobs graduates in different subject areas take up, to help inform pupils’ choice of degree subject.
Successive editions of the report from 2007-8 onwards have done this by categorising the jobs using the the SOC ( HE ) scheme.
The scheme has also helped inform policy deliberations on the provision of foundation degrees.
The Higher Education Funding Council for England used it to assess what occupations were taken up by students in academic subjects it had identified as strategically important.
It has even been used to inform the UK Government on migration policy.
In 2010, the Home Secretary commissioned the Migration Advisory Committee (MAC) to advise on how to use the ‘Points-Based System’ (PBS) to manage migration into the UK.
It made use of the scheme in advising on which occupations should be considered graduate level for the purposes of granting visas.
Universities UK has used the SOC ( HE ) typology to understand the state of the graduate labour market in seeking to inform and influence policy in the UK university sector, repeatedly citing the research of Purcell and Elias.
The Scottish Government has also used the scheme to analyse the employment outcomes of graduates from Scottish higher education institutions, to measure progress against policy performance objectives.
The classification scheme became established as a standard means of assessing the labour market for graduates, and has informed policy at the highest levels.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/business/businesses-and-employers/funded-skills-programmes:
UWE Bristol offers a range of funded skills programmes, making career development more accessible for individuals and businesses.
Whether you're looking to enhance your expertise or invest in your workforce, these programmes provide an affordable way to develop leadership skills, drive innovation and develop expertise in sustainability.
Enquire now
We offer a range of funding options to make professional development more accessible.
Each programme offers different levels of funding and has specific eligibility criteria.
Explore our options to find the best funding solution for you or your organisation.
Enhance SME leaders' skills in strategy, innovation and financial management.
Empowers local SME manufacturers to enhance performance and efficiency through access to digital tools, skills and innovation.
Equips SME leaders with essential skills to enhance team performance and drive growth.
Provides practical benefits to business through cost-effective training solutions.
If you're unsure which programme is right for you, we’re here to help.
You can send us an enquiry or contact us on +44 (0)117 32 81174 for further information.
If your business has a strategy for growth, we can help make your ambitions a reality with a Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP).

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/life/campus-and-facilities/skills-and-simulation-centre:
Our realistic Skills Simulation suites let you plunge into the deep end of real clinical practice – without risk to patients.
Get familiar with equipment, test new skills and get vital feedback before you go out on placements.
It's just one of the ways we help you graduate as a safe, confident assured practitioner, ready to make a real difference in your community.
The fantastic Skills and Simulation Centre at Glenside Campus mimics a real hospital ward, so you acclimatise, practice what you learn, and feel more confident before going into a real hospital on work placement.
The facilities are dedicated to Princess Campbell MBE who was Bristol's first black ward sister, and who worked and studied at Glenside.
She campaigned tirelessly for disadvantaged communities and sought to represent and give a voice to vulnerable people.
Meet Adult Nursing students using the simulation suite in this video.
Learn in a safe environment that reflects the actual conditions you'll find in practice.
Here you'll find:
As well as our Children’s Nursing Suite, our sensory room is a fantastic space where you can learn bring joy and therapeutic care to children, people with learning disabilities, and people with dementia.
View footage of the Sensory Room and learn more about why simulation suites can help you learn in this video.
Our courses include: Midwifery, Adult Nursing, Learning Disabilities Nursing, Mental Health Nursing, Health and Social Care Practice and more.
Our courses include Paramedic Science, Diagnostic Radiography, Radiotherapy and Oncology and Optometry.
Find out more about Occupational Therapy, Physiotherapy and Sport Rehabilitation courses at UWE Bristol.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/business/businesses-and-employers/continuing-professional-development:
At Bristol Business School and Bristol Law School we inspire excellence.
Our continuing professional development programmes enable professionals and organisations to achieve their goals and exceed their aspirations.
Our professional development programmes blend academic expertise with industry knowledge to offer flexible learning solutions for individuals to help advance careers.
We also work with organisations to co-create innovative custom programmes to develop leaders and teams.
Most of our courses are delivered through a mix of peer-to-peer learning and interactive sessions, with hybrid teaching either on campus or online.
Find out more or book onto one of our continuing professional development short courses.
Whether you are a new, middle or senior manager, we have a programme to help accelerate your career to the next level.
We offer a range of programmes for anyone developing a culture of coaching and mentoring within their organisation or starting out as a freelance coach.
Our practical business programmes enable professionals of all levels to access a portfolio of specialist expertise in finance and project management.
We have a range of marketing programmes for marketing and non-marketing professionals of all levels.
We offer a series of inspiring workshops aimed at individuals, teams and organisations.
Delivered through a blend of peer-to-peer learning and interactive sessions, participants will learn valuable practical skills and tools to enhance their personal and professional impact.
Not sure what type of programme you're looking for?
View all of our continuing professional development programmes.
Our holistic approach to customisation means that we work in partnership with you to create flexible solutions that fit your business needs.
From access to funding and leading research, to networking events and free legal and business advice clinics, we can help your business succeed.
Suitable for aspiring line managers through to senior executives, these leadership qualifications can be tailored to suit your organisation's needs.
We welcome enquiries from organisations and individuals looking to develop their professional skills.
If you would like to find out more about our range of services or to discuss your individual business needs, please contact our team:
Email: ExecEd@uwe.ac.uk Tel: +44 (0)117 32 81043
Read our blog for the latest updates from Bristol Business School, as well as sector case studies and upcoming business events.
See the real change that’s possible when you choose Bristol Business School for support.
These digital TV pioneers needed to secure continued growth in a changing global marketplace - Bristol Business School created a bespoke leadership development programme to support the whole management team.
Founded in 1993 and based in Bristol, Cabot Communications was one of the forerunners of the digital TV revolution.
It has been part of the Vestel Group since 2001, and is headquartered in Turkey.
A very successful business, Cabot has grown rapidly with a turnover of around £6 million in 2009.
There are around 35 employees, run by a senior management team with the support of a number of key project managers.
Cabot Communications had reached a stage in development where the key priority was to secure continued growth in the context of a changing global marketplace and influence from head office in Turkey.
An important element of this growth plan was to ensure that the business was making effective use of the skills of its existing employees.
Bristol Business School was asked to prepare a leadership and management development programme.
We spent three days consulting with staff, including the Managing Director, Senior Managers and Project Managers, to understand Cabot's challenges and give them confidence in our knowledge and approach.
We also gathered as wide a range of views, perspectives and opinions as possible, so we could build a programme based on their specific and unique needs.
The result was four key workshops:
The workshops were rolled out with one-month gaps between each.
This allowed participants to practise new skills and gather information on key issues for the next session.
It also fostered team building by bringing the participants together in a shared learning experience.
This pragmatic approach not only helped the participants to apply the skills and techniques they learned on the workshops to their day-to-day practice in the workplace, it also encouraged them to develop as reflective practitioners and it encouraged innovation and good practice.
Our final reviews showed that 88% felt the programme had been 'good' to 'excellent' and had achieved its aims in developing a stronger 'professional' management ethos.
We returned six months later to see how things were going, and were delighted to find that they had started to create their own in-house development ideas and that our philosophy of passing on knowledge to equip clients had proved successful.
Bristol Business School helped Cornwall Council to develop a bespoke coaching and mentoring course which was linked to a recognised postgraduate academic qualification.
Cornwall Council's Learning, Training and Development Unit (LTDU) operates within the Directorate of Adult Care and Support, one of the five Directorates of Cornwall Council .
It designs, delivers and commissions learning and development solutions for the unitary authority's internal adult social care workforce, supporting approximately 1,400 staff.
The Unit also contributes to the learning and development needs of external private, voluntary and independent care providers, a workforce of over 11,000 in Cornwall.
The Unit supports social care workers to become self-directed and reflective learners through face-to-face training and e-learning as well as tailored small group and individual approaches.
The Council contacted us when members of the LTDU needed development in coaching and mentoring theory and skills.
Working with Cornwall Council, Bristol Business School reviewed the coaching and mentoring course and modified the interactive sessions to reflect the working context and culture of their organisation.
The programme was delivered in Cornwall through a three day block of teaching - an initial two days plus a day that took place six weeks later.
This allowed for practice at work.
Participants developed expertise in coaching and mentoring to support all aspects of learning and development, which in turn have helped contribute to the development of Adult Care and Support.
“Thanks to a clearer understanding of different approaches and skills, we can now offer increased support to staff at all levels within Adult Care and Support.” - Course participant from Cornwall Council
Professionals within LTDU are continuing their studies at Bristol Business School towards the MSc in Coaching and Mentoring to enable them to provide a resource for other Directorates and external agencies.
Hire Association Europe (HAE) wanted a qualification that would encourage the recruitment and retention of staff within the hire industry to further increase the professionalism of the industry.
Hire Association Europe (HAE) is an industry-leading trade association for plant, tool and equipment hire.
With over 900 members worldwide, it supports the hire industry through provision of operational resources, products and services covering all aspects of hire including insurance, legal advice, training and health and safety, among others.
HAE supports innovation and sustainability and focuses on safety, energy efficiency and utility.
Members have the option of joining a Board or taking part in a technical panel to review and develop new industry practices that will also benefit their own organisation.
A key challenge for the organisation was how to help members address issues of recruitment and retention of staff whilst continuing to drive through increased professionalism and competence of its members.
HAE turned to us to help equip people with a professional qualification and transferable skills and knowledge.
HAE and UWE Bristol worked in close partnership to develop a bespoke accredited leadership and management development programme to complement the introductory courses being delivered, and offer staff a route through to a degree in the hire industry.
The programme was designed to provide managers across different levels of seniority with the next step in their career development, recognising good practice and enhancing their career paths within the industry.
The units for the workshops were chosen to reflect industry-specific needs to develop leadership skills for HAE's members and offer a 'cradle to grave' qualification framework.
These included:
Participants from the original course cohorts reported that the programme had encouraged them to look at aspects of their leadership style and had helped them become better leaders.
They felt that they were better able to motivate their teams and had improved their relationships with their colleagues as a result of this programme.
Many had found returning to education somewhat challenging, but had felt supported throughout and had found the experience rewarding and worthwhile.
Bristol Business School worked with Lidl to develop a management development solution for managers across different levels within the organisation.
Founded in Germany in 1973, Lidl is a chain of grocery stores with over 9,500 shops worldwide.
The majority of personnel are dedicated to working at the sharp end of the retail business providing great service to customers.
Lidl's philosophy is to keep its employees and customers happy, enabling its business to grow and flourish.
Lidl UK were exploring initiatives to enhance training of district and store managers to better equip them to deal with business challenges.
The business needed to:
Bristol Business School worked with Lidl to develop a course for managers across a number of different levels within the organisation.
The programme took the form of six one-day workshops for Divisional Managers, tailored to the organisational context within Lidl.
The workshops covered:
The workshops were very positively received by the Lidl managers who commented on the ability of the tutors to understand the context of Lidl.
District Managers subsequently requested a workshop for Store Managers across the region to address people management issues.
Lidl commented on the benefits of having an external academic provider come into the organisation and engage with the staff around this topic.
There followed additional development activities in the areas of customer service and people management as a result of this successful collaboration.
“Bristol Business School's input was extremely beneficial for our managers, enabling them to reflect on current practice and look at ways of improving their performance across a range of activities.” - Douglas Ireland, Regional Director, Lidl South West
Newbury Building Society, one of the oldest in the UK, needed to develop the strategic leadership capacity in its Senior Leadership Team.
Newbury Building Society established in 1856, is an independent mutual society, providing mortgages and savings for its members.
It is one of the oldest surviving building societies in the UK, with total assets of around £675 million.
At a time of extreme turbulence in the world financial markets, and with the appointment of a new Chief Executive, Newbury Building Society's senior management team needed to work closely together to develop a strategic vision.
The main aim was to balance growth with financial stability, while developing team working at senior level.
In response to the Society's needs, we developed a tailored Postgraduate Certificate in Strategic Leadership, which was delivered on site to the eight members of the senior management team.
The learning took place over 18 months and critically, was based on real projects within the business.
Close collaboration ensured that participants' work was focused on tangible business outcomes.
This flexible programme consisted of a series of three-day workshops, independent learning and assessment, and six Action Learning set meetings to help consolidate and deepen understanding.
The theoretical concepts and practical knowledge gained on the programme were applied to real organisational tasks and problems.
The team gained improved communications and understanding of strategic leadership, and found ways for working on development issues through action learning.
The programme was attended by the whole senior management team, five of whom opted to successfully complete the Postgraduate Certificate in Strategic Leadership.
The NHS South West Leadership Academy (SWLA) required a bespoke programme to enable both clinical and non-clinical employees to develop confidence and leadership for innovation when caring for patients.
The NHS South West Leadership Academy (SWLA) operates a small, dynamic team that oversees the creation, design and delivery of learning interventions with the aim of empowering and supporting NHS staff in the delivery of better health, care and wellbeing outcomes across the whole healthcare system.
The SWLA seeks to achieve this through developing excellent compassionate and inclusive leadership capacity in its stakeholder population.
The SWLA required a comprehensive leadership development programme that would help increase the capacity of clinical and non-clinical leaders to drive service effectiveness and transformation to bring about improvements in patient care.
A learning solution was needed that would equip these leaders with the skills and ability to meet individual and team goals in respect of leading high-quality and compassionate patient care.
They needed to be able to operate effectively at a systems level, in multi-disciplinary teams and across organisational boundaries, successfully engaging with a wide range of partners and stakeholders.
Working in collaboration with the North Bristol NHS Trust and Exeter Leadership Consulting Ltd., we partnered with the NHS SWLA to co-create a programme for clinical and non-clinical leaders in health and social care to help them develop the confidence, resilience, entrepreneurial mindset, skills and authority needed to 'act locally' and lead innovations to improve patient care.
A ten-day programme comprised of six modules was created and delivered over an eight-month period.
The programme, named 'Leadership for Improving Frontline Talent' (LIFT), is now in its fifth iteration and emphasises cumulative and sustainable learning.
It explores leadership for innovation at multiple levels from leadership of self, to leading teams and groups and also influencing the wider health care system.
The programme has continually evolved since its inception to adapt to the needs of each cohort and a constantly changing context.
The programme includes a 360-degree feedback process along with the use of a range of diagnostic instruments and peer coaching.
It also includes a leadership exchange programme, where participants 'pair up' with another participant from a different part of the health sector, and immerse themselves in each other's work for a couple of days as participant observers to gain a different perspective.
Participants share their observations and feedback with each other for development purposes.
An independent evaluation of the first run of the LIFT programme indicated that:
South Western Ambulance Service NHS Trust and Gloucestershire Care Services both needed a programme to equip staff to meet organisational changes within the NHS .
South Western Ambulance Service NHS Trust provides care and transport services.
It employs more than 1,700 staff and covers an area of 3,000 square miles with a population of almost 2.4 million people.
Gloucestershire Care Services serves approximately 602,000 people and provides a range of services including community nursing and speech and language therapy.
Both organisations experienced substantial transition and needed a programme to equip staff to deal with large-scale change in an increasingly complex and uncertain environment.
Managers wanted staff to feel more confident about big organisational changes by linking their development with the Learning Qualities Framework (LQF) and to provide them with increased career visibility through a nationally recognised qualification.
We customised a Postgraduate Certificate to the needs of the client, taking into account the organisation's rate of change.
The tailored programme of study was delivered on site to an initial cohort of 20 managers.
The success of the programme led to the client commissioning a second cohort.
The programme ran over a 12-month period, and all modules included a focus on practical work issues as a core part of the learning process.
The programme included a 360-degree diagnostic tool to provide participants with feedback from a range of managers, clients, staff and peers and help them gain greater self-awareness about their strengths and areas of development to help them become more effective in their roles.
As a result of the programme:
Red Kite needed a new corporate vision to unify every location of the business, shifting from 'traditional' law firm to a more creative culture.
Initially founded in 1898 as Lowless & Lowless, Red Kite grew to become a leading law firm in Wales.
Offering a range of services including trust administration, commercial and private client work and with offices across Carmarthenshire and Pembrokeshire, Red Kite has built an excellent reputation for providing a wide range of legal services for both individuals and businesses.
In recent years, the firm had experienced considerable and rapid growth in new and existing sectors.
With several centrally located offices, the firm needed a new corporate vision to unify every location of the business.
Senior management saw this as an opportunity to shift from a traditional to a more creative culture.
We determined that senior partners and lawyers needed to feel confident in our ability to understand professional partnerships and created a fit-for-purpose project team consisting of an experienced academic leadership specialist, a senior business management specialist with a professional services background, and a senior lawyer from our School of Law.
Their combined depth and breadth of experience with professional services firms and knowledge of leadership, business development and change management was deemed a good fit.
To further clarify the need and ensure success, we also gathered information from the wide range of views, experiences and perceptions of Red Kite's leadership team, senior partners, second-tier fee generators and leading lawyers.
The result was a bespoke six-day programme that was delivered over three months in one and two day blocks.
Topics covered included:
In line with our highly participative approach to leadership development is highly, we placed an emphasis on working with live issues so the learning could be readily applied to practice.
Gaps between delivery days allowed participants time to practice their skills and bring any issues to the next session.
The partnership agreed that they had begun to work together in a way that they had never done before - 82% of partners 'strongly agreed' and the other 18% 'agreed' they would recommend the programme to others.
The firm went on to create their own unified vision and improved group communication while pursuing business expansion with renewed clarity and purpose.
They achieved their biggest corporate merger to date, involving another well-established Welsh firm.
They are now Red Kite Law LLP, a much larger business, and an even more significant and influential law practice.
Bristol Business School has since been invited back to see how the new firm has grown and to help them look ahead for their next phase of growth.
“Any businesses with leaders who are ambitious to achieve growth or who are facing the imminent prospect of a more challenging or more competitive market should seriously consider a strategic leadership programme like the one offered by Bristol Business School.
They provided a talented team who developed a tailored programme that really helped us get to the next level.” - Mark Griffith, Operations Director
Swindon Borough Council and the High Futures through Swindon Wiltshire Local Enterprise Partnership (SWLEP) identified a need for a highly skilled and competitive workforce to help employers grow their organisations and benefit the local economy.
Swindon is a growth town with an economy which ranks amongst the top five UK cities for performance.
There are 25,400 businesses across the SWLEP, with 22% and 78% in Swindon and Wiltshire respectively.
It is host to a number of high-value sectors, ranging from manufacturing to communication technologies, with innovation being common characteristic across all of these sectors.
Against this backdrop, research undertaken by Swindon Borough Council (SBC) revealed that local employers across all sectors were particularly interested in having access to flexible leadership and management training to help develop a competitive local workforce to drive forward organisational and economic growth.
A bespoke programme of leadership training was commissioned by SBC to help achieve this.
Our solution involved the creation of the Swindon Leadership Academy.
As an approved ILM centre, we designed a programme with an ILM Level 5 Award in Leadership and Management in response to SBC's specification for Swindon's Leadership Academy.
The programme was developed in close collaboration with the council and consists of a one full-day and five half-day workshops comprising a 'core' element, and additional flexible session options that are personalised to the cohort.
The programme is underpinned with coaching and mentoring from industry specialists, organised by the council and was delivered over nine months.
Participants also benefitted from additional optional activities to enhance the learning experience including a 'Leadership Exchange'.
This involves participants inviting another leader to observe them in their work and provide feedback to support reflection and development.
The roles are then reciprocated.
Participants also received executive coaching and mentoring from a talented pool of external leaders connected with SBC's Human Resources and Organisational Development Team.
Action learning sets also formed a crucial part of the learning journey and encouraged participants to engage in peer coaching and work through individual and current work challenges.
This programme structure provides the flexibility to help tailor each programme to the cohort's individual needs.
We are now in the implementation phase and working closely with commissioners to identify the most appropriate syllabus for subsequent cohorts, refining module options using the 360-degree appraisal approach.
Following the first iteration, the programme was independently evaluated by Bath Spa University.
The taught sessions were very well-received and enabled participants to gain practical skills.
All participants felt that they had developed leadership skills and that they had improved communication skills.
Furthermore, they reported greater awareness and knowledge of how to develop teams and felt that they were taking greater ownership of plans and actions.
The second cohort commenced their learning journey in early 2019 and are now being mentored by participants from the first cohort.
The success of this programme was highlighted when Swindon Borough Council was shortlisted for a PPMA/Guardian award for Excellence in Senior Leadership Development in 2018.
The programme has made the shortlist for two awards in 2019 including 'Best Leadership/Management Development Initiative' and 'Best Cross Sector/Effective Partnership Working'.
“The programme has been instrumental in generating a positive swell of leadership talent which supports the council to achieve its aims of being as modern, effective and efficient as we can.
The programme has created some great mentors and ambassadors for change and enabled us to draw on their insights, knowledge and support as we continue to drive through our vision, priorities and pledges for Swindon.” - Helena Taylor-Knox, SBC's Organisational Development Lead
We are distinctive in our engagement with external partners, business and the region in our determination to deliver the highest quality practice-led learning experience and engagement for all our students and clients.
Explore an A–Z of professional short courses available to study at UWE Bristol.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/business/degree-apprenticeships-employer-information:
Improve your business by upskilling your workforce skills and knowledge.
Higher and degree apprenticeships combine on-the-job training with academic study.
They enable employees to gain a higher-level qualification while providing you with a highly skilled and knowledgeable workforce.
Higher and degree apprenticeships help address skills shortages and retain, attract and diversify talent.
That's why were committed to:
UWE Bristol partners with a range of employers and sectors to deliver our degree apprenticeships.
Our programmes are suitable for levy-payers and small and medium-sized enterprises.
More about our degree apprenticeships
Explore our range of higher and degree apprenticeship courses.
We work collaboratively with business in the public and private sectors to design courses that meet business needs.
Information for employers about how higher and degree apprenticeships are funded, the Apprenticeship Levy, the Apprenticeship Service and additional funding opportunities.
Information for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (SMEs) about how higher and degree apprenticeships are funded.
Learn how taking on a higher or degree apprentice can benefit your business, from boosting productivity to capturing new talent.
Find out about our work with employers and industry specialists to broaden apprenticeship diversity in STEM subjects.
Apprenticeships are defined as jobs with training.
An apprenticeship standard provides learners with the knowledge, skills, and behaviours needed to develop during their programme of study to become occupationally competent in their chosen career.
Apprenticeship standards are developed by Trailblazer groups of employers and industry bodies to meet the needs of their sector.
The apprenticeships delivered by UWE Bristol are designed to meet the needs of our apprentices and their employers.
The apprenticeship standards provided by UWE Bristol will include a range of higher and degree apprenticeships at:
If you are interested in standards from Levels 3 and 4, we may be able to redirect you to one of our further education college partners.
For more information view the approved standards on the Institute for Apprenticeships website.
The educational part of the apprenticeship will be based on a UWE Bristol higher and degree courses relevant to the apprenticeship.
The course will be delivered in a range of formats including day release, block release and blended learning.
Not all courses will be available in all formats.
As apprenticeships are work-based qualifications, on-the-job training is undertaken at the employee’s workplace.
A higher and degree apprenticeship with UWE Bristol can take anything from 18 months to five years, depending on the course.
There are eligibility criteria for who can undertake an apprenticeship programme.
An apprentice should be:
More details about who can be an apprentice can be found via GOV.UK .
You can find apprenticeship vacancies on GOV.UK.
More information is available for apprentices on enrolling and applying for a higher and degree apprenticeship .
As an employer you will have all the normal statutory employer responsibilities for the apprentice.
Apprentices must spend at least six hours per week of their contracted working hours completing off-the-job training/undertaking new learning.
Training can be flexible and achieved in a number of different ways, including face to face delivery at university, online learning and work-based projects and activities.
In addition, you will need to provide the apprentice with paid time away from normal work duties for study, provide in-company support/mentoring, and ensure the apprentice meets your job/employment criteria, is eligible for funding and meets the entry requirements of the programme.
Off-the-job training is a statutory requirement for an English apprenticeship.
Training is undertaken by the apprentice during the apprentice’s normal contracted working hours, for the purpose of achieving the knowledge, skills, and behaviours of the approved apprenticeship the learner is undertaking, all the way through to completion of their end-point assessment.
The Apprenticeship Agreement and Training Plan, supplied by UWE Bristol, must be signed by the apprentice and the employer on or before the start of the apprenticeship.
Our team at UWE Bristol will support and help facilitate the apprenticeship process.
If you have any questions, please email our Apprenticeships Hub at apprenticeships@uwe.ac.uk or call +44 (0)117 328 4888 .
Yes.
Many of UWE Bristol's higher and degree courses are accredited by relevant professional bodies.
If you cannot find a suitable Apprenticeship Standard, please email our Apprenticeships Hub at apprenticeships@uwe.ac.uk .
We will be happy to help coordinate with other employers to explore whether a Standard can be developed and a suitable academic course designed.
Read our use of subcontractors in apprenticeships statement.
Providing talent for your business is our business - find out about recruiting UWE Bristol graduates and students.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/rise/harnessing-creativity-and-technology/collaboration-boosts-creativity:
Dozens of companies, freelancers and cultural organisations have reaped the benefits of collaborative working methods inspired by UWE Bristol, attracting multi-million pound investments in the process.
Professor of Screen Media, Jonathan Dovey , instigated several practice-based projects worth more than £15m.
As well as stimulating further interest and investment, these collaborative projects demonstrated that pooling resources, sharing ideas and connecting people is the most sustainable way forward for the creative sector.
Professor Dovey, alongside Associate Professor Simon Moreton , re-examined the notion of value in the creative sector.
By highlighting the widespread social and cultural benefits of creativity, they encouraged universities and funding bodies to expand on how value is understood beyond the purely economic sense.
Professor Dovey and Dr Moreton worked closely with Bristol-based cultural cinema, talent development and creative technology agency Watershed .
Together they explored practical applications of these ideas with the community at the Pervasive Media Studio , a creative technology lab for creatives and academics run by Watershed and sponsored by UWE Bristol.
Their findings underpinned the REACT (Research and Enterprise in Arts and Creative Technology) project , which provided academia and businesses with a space to work together.
This led to the creation of 76 new pieces of software, 86 product prototypes and 262 business, skills and IP services.
The project attracted more than £5m in external investment, with one participant securing a further £3.8m to set up a new company that was later bought out by a US tech firm.
Following the success of REACT, the Network for Creative Enterprise (NfCE) project was set up with Watershed, providing individual artists and companies with the means to make a sustainable living by accessing business and mentoring support.
Together, REACT and NfCE supported 175 participants through more than 600 hours of training and coaching.
The projects jointly connected 224 businesses with peer-led opportunities for individuals and companies to secure paid work.
Several freelancers credited the projects with enabling them to grow their client base.
The region’s creative sector as whole benefited from the creation of 40 new companies and 73 jobs, while Watershed grew its own team from two to eight, increasing its capacity to work with international partners in Australia, Ireland, Japan, Kazakhstan, Mexico, Nigeria, South Africa and the USA.
By proving the merits of this collaborative model of creative hubs, UWE Bristol further enabled the Watershed to secure £13m of funded projects.
Research by UWE Bristol also enriched the British Council’s understanding of creative hubs, leading to new connections, policy and funding work in Ghana, Turkey, Uganda and Ukraine.
The findings also informed the Arts and Humanities Research Council’s 2016 Creative Economy strategy, prompting the realisation that creative networks are vital for a sector primarily made up of freelancers and small businesses.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/rise/harnessing-creativity-and-technology/creative-ecologies:
Investing in creatives to shape the future.
A glance at any day’s mainstream news headlines is enough to provoke despair.
But it doesn’t have to be that way, not if the people behind the multi-million and multi-talented South West Creative Technology Network (SWCTN), a £6.6m industrial strategy project, have anything to do with it.
From industry professionals and business leaders, to artists, technologists and early career researchers, the UWE Bristol-led network is pioneering solutions for mental health, food security and systemic equality.
Established in 2018 and co-led by UWE Bristol, the SWTN provides space, financial support and professional supervision for emerging creatives and researchers to realise their ambitions in a way that can bring sustainable change.
"What do people care about and how can we care for that?
That’s what we’re interested in.
Technological innovation is only as good as the context it serves.
Any innovative solution has to work for everyone, not just the elite few."
Professor Jon Dovey Director of Research and Enterprise for Arts and Creative Technologies and Director of the SWCTN
“We live in times of enormous potential and enormous challenge, which requires us to dream up something better,” says Professor Jon Dovey , Director of Research and Enterprise for Arts and Creative Technologies (REACT) and Director of the SWCTN.
The SWCTN has helped launch several initiatives that are inspired by and made for the people and communities, who tend to be deprioritised by standard socio-political systems and structures of governance.
One such project is using intersectional data and machine learning to explore bias and racism in advertising content and imagery.
Led by experts in inclusive marketing, the aim is to test whether machine learning can shift the balance by focusing more on people from under-represented backgrounds.
Driven by a desire to help people realise the costs and consequences of everyday choices, a team of creative technologists and user experience experts are developing a data visualisation tool that will reveal the materials, manufacture, usage and waste issues associated with different products.
Addressing the mental health needs of 35- to 55-year old men – the most at-risk from suicide – an artist has teamed up with a games designer to create an app that allows people to track the weather patterns of their mind and intervene when their mood alters.
Given the increasing need for food security, another experimental artist has developed an agro-ecological information software system that automates that process of designing agriculture systems that will allow farmers, homeowners and local authorities to grow more crops, helping them to make a positive difference to how humans coexist with the environment.
These are just a handful of examples of how the SWCTN creates an environment in which creativity and innovation can thrive.
The resulting real-world impacts stretch way beyond job creation and quality of life improvements – while those are nonetheless key.
As Jon says: “By creating habitats for lots of creatives to debate and experiment with their ideas, we’re moving away from the capitalistic model where tech giants and shareholders have the power, towards a future where transformative innovation is in the hands of citizens.”

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/rise/shaping-integrated-healthcare/improving-labour-productivity:
Investigating the impact of geographical location and other local factors on employee productivity has enabled researchers at UWE Bristol to provide policymakers with unique insights.
These have informed regional economic strategies that have improved the lives and prospects of people and communities.
Labour productivity, or the value of output per employee, measures the effectiveness of workers and is influenced by a range of different factors.
UWE Bristol’s research team of Professor Don Webber, Professor Martin Boddy and Anthony Plumridge provided fresh perspectives on productivity by considering the impact of business location and local context in their analyses – factors that have been largely ignored in previous studies.
Their work built on a variety of existing studies in three broad areas and gave policymakers the insights to make better-informed decisions through:
The research gave SWRDA (South West of England Regional Development Agency) and the Welsh Assembly Government a clearer understanding of the distribution and concentration of key business sectors, highlighting productivity gaps and identifying factors that could drive positive change.
The findings had a significant impact on regional economic policies, helping to create jobs and influencing decisions on communications, skill development, investment and innovation – as well as informing the South West of England Regional Economic Strategy, the South West of England International Trade Strategy, and the South West of England Regional Spatial Strategy.
“The work was used by the South West RDA to inform the Regional Economic Strategy and the RDA 's own corporate plans.
The work was an influence on the investment decisions made using both RDA and EU funds,” explained the Director of Strategy at the SWRDA .
The research also informed preparation of the West of England Multi-Area Agreement, clarifying the actions required to attract and grow business investment to increase economic growth and competitiveness across Bath, Bristol, East Somerset, North Somerset and South Gloucestershire.
In Wales, insights from the research underpinned Welsh transport infrastructure improvement policies designed to increase productivity and provide assistance for geographically isolated areas.
In addition, examination of the impact on productivity of limited Broadband access in parts of Wales resulted in ambitious plans to expand coverage across the country.
The success of the research prompted the Government of Wales to commission further work where similar economic modelling techniques were used to investigate the impact of varying toll levels on the Severn Crossings.
Findings have helped to formulate draft policies for adoption in 2015 when control of the crossings transfers to Government for Wales.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/rise/harnessing-creativity-and-technology/social-mobility:
University students from working-class backgrounds stand a better chance of accessing academic and job opportunities, after UWE Bristol research exposed the inequities holding them back.
Ninety students across UWE Bristol and the University of Bristol contributed to the Paired Peers study, which compared the academic experiences of an equal number of working-class and middle-class students across multiple subjects between 2010 and 2013.
Researchers also compared their employment trajectories after graduation, between 2014 and 2017.
Harriet Bradley, Professor of Gender and Employment at UWE Bristol, led a team including Dr Richard Waller , Professor of Education and Social Justice, which found socio-economic hindrances to be starkly evident.
Working-class students were more likely to drop out of university, while those who did see their time through were still worse off than their middle-class counterparts, owing to fewer work placements and internships, and as a result, fewer graduate employment opportunities.
Many such internships, which may lead to job offers, are unpaid, meaning working-class students could often not afford to take them up.
The barriers to participation were compounded by the prohibitive cost of clubs, societies and other cultural events and, frequently, the need to take paid employment to help fund their university studies.
The disparities continued after university, with working-class students generally taking longer to settle into their careers and then on average earning less.
Notably, working-class students from the University of Bristol benefitted from the institution’s reputational cachet, whereas some middle-class UWE Bristol students ended up in less prestigious jobs than they had anticipated.
But the ‘search for graduate talent’ should not be confined to Russell Group universities like Bristol.
These findings were particularly influential for the Bridge Group, an organisation that works with universities and employers to expand access to graduate opportunities.
The study also exposed sharp gender differences, with more women entering teaching, even though this was not what they had originally aspired to, a finding that directly impacted the Government Equalities Office report on Women’s Progression in the Workplace.
Working-class women were the lowest average earners.
Following Professor Bradley’s advice, the University of Bristol introduced a number of new policies in 2015, including funded internships for students from under-represented groups, a fee waiver and bursary scheme, professional mentoring for undergraduates, and postgraduate bursaries for students from low-income families.
The research also prompted universities including Sheffield, Oxford Brookes and Buckinghamshire New to shift their strategic focus, with greater emphasis on Widening Participation activities, and more bursaries to support disadvantaged students.
At the national level, the Office for Fair Access changed its guidance to highlight the needs of students from different social groups.
The Higher Education Funding Council for England similarly developed guidance to promote equality of opportunities.
Supporting students to stay on at university and to progress into further study or work – a priority highlighted by Professor Bradley’s work – formed the crux of the 2014 National Strategy for Access and Student Success in Higher Education.
The Sutton Trust released a number of reports shaped by the findings from UWE Bristol, urging the UK Government to address the socio-economic disparities and provide greater financial support to low-income students.
The work also informed recommendations from the government’s Social Mobility Commission, particularly around the ‘divided culture’ to be found amongst students from different social class backgrounds, and the need to enhance access to financial support for students from lower socio-economic groups.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/rise/shaping-integrated-healthcare/collaborative-culture:
A lack of collaboration in the construction industry often leads to higher costs, wasted time and poor performance.
A team from UWE Bristol set out to change this culture.
Following research, they produced a ground-breaking toolkit that would transform the sector’s approach.
Ask anybody working in the construction industry and they'll tell you: when it comes to construction, relationships are difficult all the way through the supply chain.
In fact, this adversarial culture has been identified as the source of the majority of the problems facing the sector – and this recognition means there’s a real appetite for change.
"Construction is just like any other industry," said Professor Paul Olomolaiye .
"Having a culture of collaboration saves time, money and boosts performance, but it’s not always easy to establish."
Professor Olomolaiye set about taking on the challenge to help transform the construction industry into a sector where people understood the value of working together:
"We combined this with a focus on improving process and technology so that we could create a toolkit that would really help teams work better," said Professor Olomolaiye.
The first step for Professor Olomolaiye's team of researchers was identifying the issues; talking to people throughout the construction industry, businesses and councils to find out more:
"It was fascinating to get this insight.
We heard similar things from a host of different sources – they were frustrated by the difficulty in working with different parts of the supply chain," said Professor Olomolaiye.
The team were able to unpick the issues and use their results to develop not only a theory but a brand new toolkit of practical solutions and tools.
Using this toolkit, the researchers have been instrumental in changing this culture of construction across the South-West and beyond.
Working with businesses and councils, they have improved supply chain management and technology to encourage better performance, profitability and personnel.
"We've seen a real shift in attitudes and behaviours.
It's something that isn't just helping the bosses and people at the top, but all those working in construction."
Professor Olomolaiye

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/rise/harnessing-creativity-and-technology/wearable-technology:
The power to play with sound by moving through the air has given disabled musicians new ways of working, and allowed performers to reach crowds like never before - all thanks to a futuristic take on wearable tech.
The MiMU Gloves are the product of an artistic and academic collaboration that began in 2011 when the Grammy-winning recording artist Imogen Heap approached UWE Bristol’s Dr Tom Mitchell to help realise her dream of ditching machine-based music-making for something more performative and expressive.
“This was a really exciting project for me,” says Dr Mitchell , who had just completed his PhD using artificial intelligence to create self-programming synthesisers.
"Gestural music interaction was an exciting new research area, where I could apply my expertise to help musicians define unique and personalised movements for performing their music."
Dr Tom Mitchell Department of Computer Science and Creative Technologies
The flexible, lightweight, fingerless gloves are embedded with bend sensors and inertial measurement units capture hand movements.
The sensor data is then processed and sent wirelessly to a customised software application called Glover.
It uses machine learning and other processing techniques to recognise and map a musician’s gestures to control any sound or virtual musical instrument.
Since making their first appearance at TEDGlobal in Edinburgh in 2011, the gloves have been used by hundreds of artists worldwide, including Ariana Grande and Kris Halpin.
For Mr Halpin, whose physical impairment has affected his ability to play the guitar, the gloves have opened up entirely new ways of making music.
“It's always inspiring seeing what people do with the gloves,” adds Dr Mitchell, Associate Professor in Computer Science and Creative Technologies.
“An unexpected result of the technology going out into the world is that it is starting to be used by disabled musicians.
As they can be trained to recognise the subtle nuances of a player’s movements, it turns out that the gloves have a lot to offer as an accessible musical instrument.”
The commercial success of the MiMU Gloves, which are made in the UK from sustainably sourced recycled fabrics, means the research team involved are now exploring further possibilities for where the technology might lead.
“It’s really motivating to do research that has an impact outside of academia.
Using the technology in high-stakes music performances from the outset has resulted some nail-biting moments!
However, it has led to research insights, questions and collaborations that never would have emerged in the lab,” says Dr Mitchell.
“We didn’t need to make any assumptions about musicians' needs or the implications of live-performance; everything was field-tested live and in the wild.”
Further iterations of the gloves being explored by the MiMU collective of computer scientists, software developers, textile designers, musicians, engineers and researchers, which have the potential to further revolutionise how music is created by artists as they interact with their environment and audiences.
Find out more about how the Creative Technologies Laboratory (CT Lab) is an interdisciplinary research group that spans and intersects computer science and the creative arts.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/life/campus-and-facilities/careers-and-enterprise-facilities/launch-space:
Launch Space provides fully-funded support for aspiring entrepreneurs and early-stage tech startups.
We work with a range of people, from recent graduates and first-time founders, to experienced entrepreneurs and businesses exploring new technologies.
The Launch Space incubator and accelerator could be the place for you if:
With fully-funded support, including desk space, business mentoring, and community events, you can get ready to launch your business.
How Launch Space could help your business
Apply for up to 12 months support in Launch Space for your start-up.
Team Entrepreneurship graduates Andy and Guy are changing the way in which the world engages with students in their home.
Beth is founder of VisitMor, developing exciting and innovative interactive visitor experiences.
Listen to Beth talking about the support she has had from Launch Space and UWE Bristol's Digital Innovation Fund to build her business.
Develop your value proposition and turn your ideas into successful business enterprises.
Email our incubation team to find out how you can get involved.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/life/campus-and-facilities/city-campus/spike-island:
One of the sites that makes up City Campus at UWE Bristol and a internationally renowned contemporary art centre that offers free exhibitions, events and engagement activities.
Located in an 80,000 square foot former industrial warehouse near Bristol harbourside, Spike Island is an internationally renowned contemporary art centre with whom UWE Bristol has a substantial partnership.
Here you’ll join a vibrant community of hundreds of artists and creative businesses with international, national and regional reputations for nurturing and promoting talent.
Home to a major gallery, this art centre offers a diverse and dynamic artistic programme, including free exhibitions, events and engagement activities.
Our Fine Art studios provide a venue for students to exhibit, perform and screen new artwork during Spike Island’s annual Open Studios weekend and our Degree Shows .
Watch our students from a range of creative disciplines across our City Campus, as they produce and exhibit their works at UWE Bristol's Creative Industries Degree Show.
Our partnership focuses on providing excellent professional development opportunities for creative industries in the South West, including our art and curating students and graduates.
Spike Island’s team, as well as numerous practising artists based in the artists’ studios, contribute to teaching and mentoring on UWE Bristol’s Fine Art and Curating courses.
Spike Island directly supports artists through commissioning new artwork, hosting over 70 subsidised artists’ studios, and running a sector-leading artist development programme, Spike Island Associates .
Supported by UWE Bristol, Spike Island Associates includes members such as students, graduates holding funded bursaries, and many alumni.
Many postgraduate art and design students are entitled to free membership of this programme, providing a valuable network that supports emerging creative practitioners.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/business/businesses-and-employers:
UWE Bristol provides expert advice and support to help your organisation realise its goals.
Whatever you need, we are here to support you.
We can help you find the right graduate for your business through vacancy promotion, recruitment and consultancy services.
Subsidised internships offer your business a great deal.
Read success stories and find out more about our internship schemes.
From sandwich-year placements to project-specific skill boosts, placements are a low-risk, cost-effective recruitment solution that gives students valuable practical experience.
A range of funded programmes to strengthen leadership, drive innovation and advance sustainability.
Sign up to a 12-week course for Senior Leaders of SMEs looking to boost performance, resilience, and long-term growth.
Enhances business competitiveness and productivity by embedding academic expertise into commercial practice.
Gain subject-specific knowledge and hands-on skills to apply immediately with courses in digital skills and leadership.
Designed for SME's, this 10 week funded programme offers practical strategies to enhance resilience and performance and foster innovation.
A partly government-funded programme to help solve a business problem and gain weekly access to academic expertise.
Gain access to cutting edge, real-world research that can help transform your organisation.
Find out if you could benefit from funding from UWE Bristol.
Made Smarter gives manufacturing SMEs in the West of England access to digital tools and skills and innovation to improve business performance and efficiency.
Join forces with UWE Bristol to drive your business forward.
Together we can discover more and apply our shared knowledge in ways that help you become more successful.
Develop the skilled workforce your organisation needs with our business degree apprenticeships.
Higher and degree apprenticeships combine on-the-job training with study, so your employees will gain a higher-level qualification alongside their work.
The Business and Law Clinic provides pro bono advice to businesses and individuals across the South West, provided by our Law School students and supported by legally qualified lecturing staff.
Find out how our intellectual property team works with academics to utilise intellectual property generated from research at UWE Bristol.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/business/community-engagement:
We take a whole university approach to public engagement, with strong leadership, governance and resource to deliver high impact social value activity.
We share our academic, research and professional insights, resource and skills; ensuring that we listen to and learn from the expertise and insight of our civic partners.
We aim to foster equitable and mutually beneficial community, industry and policy partnerships which are built on trust and a reciprocal knowledge economy; supporting local economic prosperity, shaping the health and sustainability of our communities and creating solutions to global challenges.
UWE Bristol, University of Bristol, City of Bristol College, Bristol City Council, and the City Office have strengthened their relationship by signing a Civic University Agreement (CUA) .
The partnership reflects the many positive benefits to the city that the institutions collectively bring, including new jobs, apprenticeships, research collaborations and educational opportunities.
It outlines the intention to do even more in collaboration across several key social impact areas.
At the heart of the CUA is a desire to ensure that the local population benefits from the thriving further and higher education sectors in Bristol.
We deliver a range of targeted workshops, activities and events for schools and colleges to help students realise their full potential and maximise attainment.
Run by the Community Liaison team, the UWE Bristol Community Together Fund offers grants of up to £250 for projects linking students and staff with community organisations.
This project explores, celebrates and documents the contribution of the Windrush generation in Bristol, British societies and across the African diaspora.
The Integrated Care Academy (ICA) is an exciting new partnership between UWE Bristol and our NHS and commercial, charity and independent sector partners across local and regional health and social care systems.
We have partnered with Way 2 Learn to improve access to education for prisoners through a new model of in-cell learning.
We are involved with public, community and third-sector organisations through a variety of exchanges, partnerships and collaborations.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/business/schools-and-colleges:
We deliver workshops, activities, programmes and events for school and college students as well as supporting teachers and parents.
Discover opportunities for your students to visit our campuses and explore higher education and university life.
Interactive workshops and talks on post-18 pathways, higher education and student life, led by UWE Bristol.
We collaborate with local schools and colleges to offer free, tailored support packages, helping students reach their full potential.
Find out more about Undergraduate Open Days and how to attend.
Contextual offers consider applicant’s personal circumstances and offer lower grade requirements for fairness.
Find out how to apply for courses and what happens during the UCAS process.
Useful resources to help you to support, guide and signpost students considering higher education and post-18 options.
Ask a current UWE Bristol student about their course, what it's like to study with us or life in Bristol.
Take a virtual tour and get a glimpse of the experience your students could have during a campus visit.
After receiving a contextual offer from UWE Bristol, Brad took part in a three-day Summer School to help him prepare for the transition to university life.
Despite doubting her abilities, Chantelle accepted a contextual offer of study at UWE Bristol after a supportive application experience.
Sign up to our schools and colleges newsletter to hear about outreach events, activities and opportunities for your students and staff.
Partnership with UWE Bristol offers schools, colleges and early years settings the opportunity to play a major part in training the next generation of teachers and to gain support for existing teachers in professional development.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/business/businesses-and-employers/recruiting-talent:
UWE Bristol students are leading the way for graduate employability.
Our leading academics and practice-based curriculum make them more ready for the real world.
Vacancy promotion, recruitment and consultancy services.
Subsidised internships offer your business a great deal
From sandwich year placements to project-specific skill-boosts.
Free consultancy projects for local organisations in exchange for hosting students.
Book your place at an employer fair or attend a drop-in session to learn more.
If you have a valuable opportunity, our volunteering service can help you fill it.
If you have any questions about recruiting UWE Bristol graduates, get in touch.
"We find UWE Bristol students are well-rounded motivated hires.
We have recruited from various degree backgrounds, and as result have seen a wealth of input and talent to our business."
Jamie Enterprise Holdings
Higher and degree apprenticeships combine on-the-job training with study for a higher level qualification, giving you the highly skilled and knowledgeable workforce your business needs.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/business/venue-hire-and-events-management:
If you're planning a business event, find flexible space with quality facilities and practical support to match at UWE Bristol.
As well as a number of event spaces, we offer quality catering , an accessible location and superb additional facilities – you’d be hard pressed to find a more flexible location in the South West.
Our talented, committed team are experts at making sure events runs smoothly and with plenty of sparkle.
Perfect for first-time event organisers and seasoned pros alike, we offer as much or as little support as you require, including full on-the-day support.
Contact us with your ideas and your budget and we’ll take it from there.
From meetings to conferences, gala dinners to product launches, our four campus locations offer a bright canvas for unforgettable events.
For 20 to 320 delegates, if you need to organise a conference, talk to our dedicated conference team.
We have a wide range of modern lecture theatres, teaching and seminar rooms that are available for a wide range of events.
Our £80million Student Village at Frenchay campus is available for hire over the summer months for summer camps and more.
We are experienced and adept in delivering top notch catering for events of all shapes and sizes.
Whatever event you are looking to host at UWE Bristol, our dedicated events team will support you all the way.
Our flexible spaces can be tailored to your needs and our specialist events team will assist you at every stage of planning and delivery, ensuring that every event is successful.
UWE Bristol event spaces are suitable for:
"We were really pleased with the support and service we received from the UWE Bristol.
The room and equipment were perfect – thanks very much for all your help."
Camp America
UWE Bristol Hospitality Events Team Frenchay Campus Coldharbour Lane Frenchay Bristol, BS16 1QY
Telephone: +44 (0)117 32 83568 Email: hospitality.events@uwe.ac.uk
We are committed to providing high-quality sustainable food across our three campuses.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/about/services/student-and-academic-services:
From the first point of registration to graduation and beyond, Student and Academic Services (SAS) provides a full range of support for students, their influencers and partner organisations.
UWE Bristol's quality academic regulations and quality management process aids the University with maintaining and enhancing standards – and the quality of learning offered to students.
They also ensure that all students at the University are treated consistently and equitably.
The pages below set out the University’s approach to the management of academic standards, and outline the principal ways in which the quality of learning, teaching and assessment and the student experience at UWE Bristol are assured and enhanced.
Student and Academic Services are also involved in developing non-academic student policies such as the Policy Framework for Student Behaviour and Health (PDF) – which incorporates Student Conduct , Professional Suitability (PDF) and Fitness to Study – Safeguarding, and managing associated casework.
If you have a query but are not sure who to contact, you can check the SAS structure chart (PDF) .
View a list of external examiner resources and external examiner induction day information.
Information about the UWE Bristol complaints process and the different stages involved.
The Enhancement Framework has been created to enhance the University's programmes of study, teaching and learning activities, and to reflect and embed the Strategy 2020.
Key quality management contacts and programme approval contacts.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/research/policies-and-standards:
Including research standards
UWE Bristol is committed to promoting excellent research which observes the highest possible standards of integrity.
Research governance is the framing within which we manage research to ensure research integrity is achieved.
This framing includes principles, legal and regulatory provisions, standards of good practice, policies, guidance, systems, management and supervision.
The Research Governance team provides support and advice for all researchers on research governance and good research practice at UWE Bristol.
We also provide governance advice and support for more specialist areas such as researching with children or vulnerable groups, human tissue research or working with statutory organisations such as the NHS .
The governance team can also signpost researchers to further specialist advice available within UWE Bristol, such as:
Research integrity is overseen by Professor John Hancock ; Associate Head of School (Research and Knowledge Exchange), School of Applied Sciences, College of Health, Science and Society.
Contact Dr Mateja Celestina, Research Integrity, Governance and Ethics Manager, by email ( mateja.celestina@uwe.ac.uk ) for research integrity matters or formal complaints of research misconduct.
For general research governance enquiries, please email researchgovernance@uwe.ac.uk .
All staff and doctoral research must be entered on the UWE Bristol Research Governance Record.
This is a mandatory requirement.
You should enter your UWE Bristol Ethics approval number on the RGR as soon as you have it.
UWE Bristol embraces and will meet the requirements of the Concordat to Support Research Integrity (Universities UK, 2019).
To support this policy, the University has set in place a Code of Good Research Conduct .
In line with the requirements of the Concordat, UWE Bristol also publishes an annual statement on research integrity:
Please refer to the University's policy statement on the use of animals in research for the latest guidance in this area.
In line with the Concordat to Support Research Integrity, UWE Bristol has set in place specific procedures for dealing with allegations of research misconduct.
If you want to find out more you can download UWE Bristol's Research Misconduct Procedure (PDF) .
The University is committed to the highest standards of honesty, openness and accountability.
A Whistleblowing and Public Interest Disclosure Policy (within the Corporate section) is in place to allow staff, students and all members of the University to raise concerns or information which they believe in good faith provides evidence of malpractice or impropriety.
Additional resources for researchers are available including guidance on human tissue research and research data management .
Additional resources for researchers including information on export control legislation, human tissue research and research data management.
UWE Bristol has set in place a Code of Good Research Conduct and a Policy on Good Research Conduct to promote good research practice, and prevent research misconduct.
UWE Bristol strongly supports research that meets the highest ethical standards, including that which involves animals.
UWE Bristol is committed to promoting high ethical standards in the conduct of research undertaken by its staff and students.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/research/research-staff-support:
UWE Bristol is one of the leading and fastest growing universities for research, with an emphasis on interdisciplinary and collaborative research that has a positive impact on our economy and society.
Research staff are the key to this success, and UWE Bristol is committed to continually enhancing our support of researchers.
Enabling research staff to network, develop activities and to share best practice.
Resources to support research staff with their development.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/research/arts-and-humanities-research-council-iaa:
2022-2026
UWE Bristol was successful in receiving £597,451.49 in the first round of Impact Acceleration Account (IAA) awards from the Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC).
There were only 32 universities awarded AHRC IAAs nationally and the scheme received the most applications of any IAA competition.
This IAA allows UWE Bristol to support its arts and humanities and interdisciplinary researchers to respond to impact opportunities in a flexible, responsive and creative way.
The AHRC IAA aims to enhance the non-academic impact of arts and humanities research or from interdisciplinary research with an arts and humanities component.
Between August 2022 and January 2025, UWE Bristol's AHRC IAA funded 69 projects across all Colleges, covering a huge range of arts and humanities disciplines from Fine Art, Creative Technology to English, History and Law.
The range of projects reflect the diversity of UWE Bristol research and how we are utilising our engaged arts and humanities research to have commercial, social and cultural impact.
Some examples of the projects the AHRC IAA has supported include:
AHRC IAA funding supported Jac Fennell in hosting a Welsh Government-sponsored Senedd event, ‘The Power of a HUG’.
This event aimed to capture and extend the impact of a new NHS research trial involving HUG - an innovative assistive technology designed to enhance well-being.
'The Power of a HUG' Senedd event
Building on Steve Presence's AHRC -funded research on UK Documentary Film, IAA funding enable the successful launch and promotion of the Documentary Film Council (DFC).
This new organisation serves as a representative body for professionals working in the UK feature documentary sector.
Launch of the DFC
IAA support allowed Suwita Hani Randhawa to convene ‘A New Crime of Ecocide’, a strategic workshop bringing together high-profile UK stakeholders.
The session explored the legal, political, and ethical implications of recognising ecocide as a new crime in UK domestic and foreign policy contexts.
Workshop on the crime of ecocide
With IAA funding, Tavs Jorgensen advanced the design and production processes of innovative cob bricks systems.
These developments contribute to low-carbon, sustainable approaches in contemporary architecture.
Sustainable earth brick production
Verity McIntosh collaborated with Watershed to ensure access and inclusion were central to the design of its new immersive gallery space ‘Undershed’.
IAA support was instrumental in embedding inclusive design principles ahead of the venue's launch.
Inclusive design at 'Undershed'
IAA commercialisation support enabled Jack Lowe to launch ‘Pin the Tale’, an innovative, map-based online game, which uses what3words to encourage storytelling about specific locations.
Launch of online game
If you are interested in hearing more about the AHRC Impact Acceleration Scheme, please email Juliet Lennox at juliet.lennox@uwe.ac.uk or book onto an Impact Acceleration Account Open Office .
If you are external to UWE Bristol and interested in working with a UWE Bristol researcher, please get in touch.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/about/services/research-external-engagement:
We are a bold, connected and impact-driven service, uniting students, apprentices, researchers, alumni, businesses and community partners to drive UWE Bristol’s ambitions in employability, research, innovation, and skills.
At our core, we create a dynamic ecosystem where collaboration sparks ideas, research drives real-world change, and partnerships open doors to new possibilities.
Through cutting-edge research, immersive learning and strategic alliances, we empower individuals to shape the future.
Our ‘one service’ approach puts students, apprentices, academics, and external partners at the heart of everything we do.
We operate with a service-first mindset and a commercial edge—delivering clear, accessible products through a digital-first experience.
With a laser focus on impact, we embed transparency and measurable success into every step we take.
Research and External Engagement is organised by three main pillars:
with four cross-cutting teams:
Get in touch with enquiries.
Services we offer to businesses and community engagement.
Information resource for UWE Bristol staff (login required).

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/research/ref:
The Research Excellence Framework (REF) is undertaken by the four UK higher education funding bodies to assess the quality of research in UK higher education.
In March 2021, the University submitted to the most recent exercise – REF2021.
The results of REF 2021 were published by the funding bodies in May 2022.
The aim of the REF is to secure the continuation of a world-class, dynamic and responsive research base within UK higher education by:
UWE Bristol’s ambition is that "through our research, we will transform the future, advance knowledge, support sustainable economic growth and development, enhance social and cultural development, promote health and wellbeing, equality and diversity, and the quality of built and natural environments" - from our Transforming Futures 2020-2030 Research Strategy .
Following our success in REF 2014, we recognise REF 2021 as a further important measure of our progress, a milestone in our development to establish critical volume and ensure the sustainability of our research.
Successful engagement with the REF is the means by which we seek to maximise the benefits to the University but also to implement a process that is rigorous, transparent and fair and which is increasingly inclusive.
UWE Bristol's approach to REF 2021 is set out in a Code of Practice (PDF) and appendices (PDF) that sets out the principles, processes and procedures applied in developing our REF 2021 submission.
Further information about staff preparations for REF 2021 can be found on the staff intranet .
To find out more about some of the great impacts that research at UWE Bristol has made please visit RISE .
For further information on UWE Bristol's approach to REF 2021 please contact Mark Tomlinson-Lane, Research Excellence Manager at mark2.tomlinson@uwe.ac.uk .
76% of UWE Bristol research is classified as World-leading and Internationally Excellent.
For REF 2021, UWE Bristol submitted to 13 Units of Assessment (UOA).
UWE Bristol submitted 913 research outputs and 41 case studies.
The results of the Research Excellence Framework 2021 were published on Thursday 12 May 2022.
See the REF 2021 results for UWE Bristol .
Information on and access to the Project Information and Management System (PIMS) and the UWE Bristol Research Repository.
Guidance on Research England's open-access requirements for the Research Excellence Framework (REF).
Guidance on managing your research data throughout the lifecycle of your project.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/study/library/research-support:
Additional services and information for researchers at UWE Bristol.
Information and access to the Project Information and Management System (PIMS) and the UWE Bristol Research Repository.
Includes how to deposit, training and FAQs.
All UWE Bristol researchers, who have produced research data associated with an existing or forthcoming publication, are invited to enter a description of their research data (metadata) in this Research Data Repository.
Research Data Repository
Find out about how to manage your research data including what to include in a data management plan and how to comply with funding body requirements.
Find out how to apply for funding for article-processing charges and how to meet funder requirements.
How to get published, apply for an ISBN, and assess an author's productivity and impact.
An ORCiD is a unique identifier that allows you to tie all your research together in one place.
Find out how to get one and what benefits you can expect.
Find professional and social media sites.
Set up current awareness alerts to bring details of new articles or conference papers to your desktop.
Information about specialist print and electronic resources to support your research as well as contact details for your subject librarians.
Contact us for more information on help available.
Book a one-to-one appointment with a Research Librarian.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/research/postgraduate-research-study/contact-the-doctoral-academy:
Please contact us if you have any questions or you would like further information about postgraduate research at UWE Bristol.
Telephone: +44 (0)117 32 83800
Doctoral Academy Hub Ground Floor, North Wing Northavon House UWE Bristol Frenchay Campus Coldharbour Lane Bristol BS16 1QY UK
You may also find the answer to your query in Doctoral Academy Handbook.
Doctoral Academy Handbook
For queries about PGR skills development, contact the Skills Development Team.
Useful information and guidance for current postgraduate research students and supervisors.
The UWE Bristol Doctoral Academy offers a range of workshops to develop postgraduate research (PGR) students' vital transferable skills.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/alumni/alumni-connect:
Become part of our online community, where you can access an alumni directory and take part in mentoring.
You can find industry experts, professional contacts and local connections.
Browse for a mentor yourself or offer your expertise and become a mentor.
It’s easy to use and free.
To get the most out of the site, we recommend using a tablet or computer.
Already a member?
Log in to Alumni Connect .
"The mentoring process was very straightforward and communication was easy through the site.
All I had to do was log on to the system to respond to my mentee's questions by email."
Ben Hanham, Associate Solicitor with TLT PGDip Legal Practice
Law alum Ben Hanham signed up to Alumni Connect as a mentor and was approached by a student who was looking for advice.
Here is his experience of mentoring through Alumni Connect:
“I was contacted by a student who wanted to get into the legal profession and was looking for some mentoring advice about applying for junior roles.
By coincidence, my firm had several open vacancies, which we had been struggling to find the right candidates for.
After a little guidance on how to polish her CV, the mentee applied for a role at my firm and was offered, not one, but two positions.
This is a great success.
Alumni Connect was able to connect a student with a law firm that needed her skills.
It was beneficial for us both.
Alumni Connect fully met my expectations and I would encourage more UWE Bristol graduates and students to get involved!”
Find out more about the Alumni Connect site.
Find out what mentoring involves, why you should become a mentor and what help you can offer through Alumni Connect.
How to use Alumni Connect effectively and make the most out of your amazing alumni community.
Discover what you can gain by being mentored and how it will give you and your future career a boost.
How the UWE Bristol Alumni Team can help you to organise your own reunion.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/alumni/stay-connected/alumni-enquiries:
If you have any questions or require further information, please contact us.
Email us at alumni@uwe.ac.uk
UWE Bristol Alumni Engagement and Development Team 2nd Floor Northavon House Frenchay Campus Coldharbour Lane Bristol BS16 1QY UK
From time-to-time, we receive reports of organisations who are not associated with the University contacting our alumni.
As stated in our alumni privacy notice , UWE Bristol will not trade your data with any other organisations.
However, sometimes cybercriminals may contact you based on publicly available information and could falsely claim to be working with the University.
If you are unsure if a communication is legitimate, please contact us to verify.
You can also use our guide to fraudulent communications to help you spot a scam.
If you are a Bristol Business School (BBS) or Bristol Law School (BLS) graduate you can contact our alumni office by emailing businesslaw.alumni@uwe.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/alumni/stay-connected:
Don’t miss our quarterly Alumni Edit email, delivering selected stories, news and memories straight to your inbox.
If you haven’t already, simply provide us with your up-to-date email address in the form on this page and we’ll subscribe you.
If you have previously unsubscribed from our emails, you can resubscribe at any time.
Just email the Alumni Team at alumni@uwe.ac.uk confirming your name and the email address you unsubscribed.
We’ll get you back in the loop.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/study/final-year/graduate-outcomes-survey:
The Graduate Outcomes Survey tells us how UWE Bristol graduates’ careers are progressing once they have left the University.
The survey is managed by the Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA).
HESA will ask us to provide them with contact details for you so that they can get in touch regarding the survey.
Your email is most important, but the right phone numbers and an address are also useful.
Please update your contact details by following the correct link:
Current students: update your details in MYUWE .
Graduates to be and graduates who’ve left UWE Bristol: update your details .
The census date for the survey will be 15 months after your graduation.
You'll be asked a number of questions relating to the activities you're undertaking 15 months after graduation.
These include whether you’re in employment, self-employment, developing your portfolio and/or undertaking further study.
HESA have published a student collection notice to provide guidance about how your information will be used.
For more details about the survey, please visit Graduate Outcomes .
If you need support to find a new job, want to progress in your role or launch a new business we can help.
Explore what’s on offer for alumni career and business support .
To make your final few months with us as easy as possible we’ve put together a list of things you need to do before you leave, as well as some useful information to help you prepare for life after university.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/courses/funding/scholarships-and-bursaries/uwe-bristol-alumni-scholarship:
We are delighted to offer UWE Bristol alumni a tuition fee discount of 20% on our full-time and part-time taught postgraduate courses.
UWE Bristol alumni are entitled to a tuition fee discount of 20% on our full-time and part-time taught postgraduate courses.
There are some full-time and part-time courses where the 20% discount does not apply.
View the 2025/26 alumni discount exclusion list for full details.
Postgraduate research students (PhD, DPhil, MPhil, Prof Doc) are eligible for a 20% discount on the first year of study only if their course is full time, and for the first two years of study only if on a part-time course.
The discount does not apply to retake modules, integrated/continuing professional development courses or degree apprenticeships.
UWE Bristol alumni who have successfully completed a UWE Bristol degree programme (foundation, undergraduate or postgraduate) including students who have successfully completed a UWE Bristol degree programme which is delivered at one of our partner institutions in the UK or overseas are eligible.
Students who have successfully completed the following are also eligible for the UWE Bristol Alumni Scholarship:
Alumni students can only receive the Alumni Scholarship if you are progressing to a higher-level qualification than previously achieved at UWE Bristol.
For example, if you completed a Postgraduate Diploma at UWE Bristol and wanted to study another Postgraduate Diploma then you would not be eligible for the Alumni Scholarship.
If you completed a Postgraduate Diploma at UWE Bristol and then wanted to study a Masters at UWE Bristol then you would be eligible for the Alumni Scholarship as you are studying for a higher level qualification.
Simply include your UWE Bristol student number in your postgraduate study application.
If you don't know your student number, provided your personal details haven't changed our systems will identify your record.
The discount will be applied as soon as your entitlement has been confirmed.
The discount equals 20% off the full course cost.
The discount will be applied at the start of the course for full-time students.
Part-time students will receive the discount at the start of each new study year.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/alumni/benefits-and-discounts:
Find out more about benefits, discounts and support available to UWE Bristol alumni.
We're delighted to offer UWE Bristol alumni a  tuition fee discount of 20% for 2025 entry on a number of our full-time and part-time taught postgraduate courses.
If you graduated from an undergraduate course last year or are due to graduate this year, you may be eligible to apply for a  Vice-Chancellor's Scholarship, which provides a 50% discount on selected full-time and part-time postgraduate courses.
Our diverse professional training courses offer you the opportunity to acquire new skills and enhance your existing experience.
Many of our short and professional courses offer discounted prices to UWE Bristol alumni.
Offered exclusively to UWE Bristol alumni, our Trailblazer Programme focuses on maximising personal impact, boosting effectiveness and leaderships skills.
Whether you need support finding a new job, progressing in your role, changing careers or launching a new business, UWE Careers and Enterprise can support you.
We can also help you recruit UWE Bristol student and graduate talent for your organisation.
If you have recently graduated, or are soon to leave UWE Bristol, please look at the information for final year students, which clarifies how long you have access to systems such as Blackboard, MYUWE and Adobe Creative Cloud.
Develop your self-awareness and get practical advice on making your next career move.
Get access to the Career Toolkit via InfoHub to get instant CV feedback and access to an interview simulator, CV builder, practice tests, online workshops and more.
You can also get free individual career coaching for up to three years after graduation from UWE Bristol.
With free access to LinkedIn Learning for up to a year after you complete your course, explore a vast library of over 16,000 expert-led online courses and video tutorials.
Blackbullion is an award-winning education technology company which offers free financial advice online, equipping students and graduates with money skills for life.
Free access is available whilst you still have a UWE Bristol email address – so for around one year after course completion.
Join a community of more than 7,000 UWE Bristol alumni and students from around the world.
You will find industry experts, professional contacts, local connections and old friends.
You can offer to be a mentor or browse for a mentor yourself.
We can support you in organising a reunion to re-connect with your classmates.
If you're interested in arranging a reunion event, our  reunion  web pages explain how we can help.
We can also help you connect with old University friends, either through our  Alumni Connect  site or find your friends  service.
You may be interested in attending our in-person and online events such as The Bristol Distinguished Address Series (BDAS).
Our events diary has all our upcoming events listed.
Please update your details and opt in with us to receive specific events relevant to you.
UWE Bristol alumni can join the Library as a visitor member for free.
Alumni are entitled to borrow up to five books at a time.
Please note that, due to the University's licensing agreements, you are unable to borrow audio-visual materials.
To take advantage of the Library borrowing entitlement, simply complete the online application to join the Library.
Please be aware that new memberships cannot be processed during April, May, September or October.
Join the library
You can get free sight tests and contact lens fittings with our third year Optometry students, supervised by qualified optometrists, during term time, from late September through Easter.
Enjoy a 15% discount on eyewear over £70.
Find out more and book an appointment
Alumni receive discounts on UWE Bristol Sport membership packages, facility hire and sports services such as physiotherapy.
There is also the opportunity to get involved in events, such as the Bristol 10K where you run as part of the Varsity team.
Alumni can also join The Students' Union at UWE sports clubs .
Access UWE Bristol's Sports Rehabilitation Clinic , based on Glenside Campus, for a variety of services available to alumni with sports-related injuries.
The service is run by students on the BSc(Hons) Sport Rehabilitation course , under supervision by experienced clinicians, specialising in musculoskeletal management, exercise-based rehabilitation and fitness.
UWE Bristol Sport
Alumni registration to the Centre for Music is £30.
This includes access to all our professionally directed ensembles and choirs and the opportunity to join us at national competitions, tours and events.
Become a member
Free referencing tools available to our Alumni.
Free online reference manager tool that allows you to store and format references and then incorporate them into Word documents.
It can help you to manage and organise your research and collaborate with others online.
It enables you to import citations and research papers from online databases, and it can generate bibliographies.
Zotero is a free, open-access reference management tool for alumni, researchers, and academics.
Create citations, footnotes, and bibliographies, supporting 18 popular citation styles with more available for download.
You can attach PDFs, notes, and images to citations, organise them into searchable folders, and export bibliographic data from various sources.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/alumni/benefits-and-discounts/careers-and-business-support-for-graduates:
Support to help graduates find a new job, progress in their role, change career or launch a new business.
Available for up to three years after leaving UWE Bristol, our career coaches can help you to develop a career plan and give advice on CVs, applications and interviews.
Contact the Careers team to book an appointment.
Available for up to three years after leaving UWE Bristol, our Enterprise Team can help you on your business or freelancing journey.
If you’re thinking about starting a business or freelancing you can email enterprise@uwe.ac.uk to book a one-to-one appointment.
Have you graduated in the last seven years in the UK and have a business idea you'd like to put into action?
Launch Space provides free desk space and business support for graduate start-up businesses in the heart of our University Enterprise Zone.
For information about access to UWE Bristol systems once your course has finished, including how to set up graduate access to InfoHub and Career Toolkit please visit our IT guidance for graduating students webpage .
Browse InfoHub (login required) to see upcoming enterprise and student ventures events .
Our employers fairs are a great opportunity for talented students and graduates to meet employers who are recruiting for a wide range of graduate jobs, industry placements, internships, and volunteering opportunities.
The Bristol Distinguished Address Series provides an opportunity to hear unique perspectives and insights from change makers, activists, entrepreneurs, and people who have achieved amazing things in Bristol and beyond.
Students and graduates can apply for free membership of Bristol Creative Industries for mentorship, networking, talks and workshops.
We know hundreds of organisations looking for UWE Bristol graduates right now.
Just visit InfoHub (login required) and explore the opportunities.
For international job opportunities.
The award-winning GradLink careers site, provided by UWE Bristol, is specifically designed for international graduates who have studied in the UK.
We are delighted to offer UWE Bristol alumni a tuition fee discount of 20% on a number of our full-time and part-time taught postgraduate courses.
The Vice-Chancellor's Scholarship provides a tuition fee discount of 50% on full-time and part-time postgraduate courses, and includes the 20% alumni discount.
Visit us at one of our Postgraduate and Professional Open Events to get a real sense of studying again with UWE Bristol.
We offer a range of subject specific open events and taster sessions throughout the year.
Whether you are looking for personal career development or for training to meet the needs of your organisation, UWE Bristol has a range of options to help you achieve your goals.
Our expert staff and diverse portfolio of professional training courses offer you the opportunity to acquire new skills and enhance your existing work-based experience to give you the competitive edge and take your career to the next level.
Our flexible career events are designed to work around your business's needs from one-hour presentations to one-day events, and provide the perfect opportunity to meet the talent you need.
Gain excellent business exposure, raise brand awareness on campus and speak directly to cross-sector candidates for recruitment into placements, internships, graduate schemes and more by attending our employers fairs .
Advertise your organisation's vacancies and opportunities to our students and graduates.
Find out more about recruiting UWE Bristol talent .
Higher and degree apprenticeships combine on-the-job training with study for a higher-level university qualification, while remaining in the workplace.
Find out about careers and enterprise employer related events including employers fairs, industry Q&A panels, workshops and competitions.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/study/academic-information/certificates:
Information on receiving award certificates and certificates of credit.
How to apply for a replacement award certificate when the original has been damaged or lost.
Apply for certified true copies of award certificates and certificates of credit.
Download and print digital versions of your Award Certificates through the UWE Bristol secure documents portal.
View instructions on how you can apply for duplicate certificates of credit.
Council Tax, Higher Education Achievement Report (HEAR), Graduate Development programme (GDP) and Continuing Professional Development (CPD).
Apply for a full or partial transcript of your training profile for healthcare (formerly known as NHS) awards.
To enable us to manage your queries effectively, please include the following information in all correspondence:
How to apply for academic verification, references and letters from the University.
Find out how degree classifications and differential levels of award are calculated.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/business/support-uwe-bristol/uwe-bristol-fund:
Donations to the UWE Bristol Fund provide vital grants to our students and local communities.
The UWE Bristol Fund provides grants to students facing financial difficulty, supports student-led community projects and funds extra-curricular activities.
Your donation can make a huge difference, It will enable us to help more students facing financial hardship and allow us to provide an excellent student experience.
"I am suffering from keratoconus in both my eyes which has severely impacted my vision.
With your generous funding, I was able to procure a big-screen monitor, which tremendously helped me!
I can't stress enough how grateful I am to all those who made this possible."
Isaac BSc(Hons)Business Computing student and Hardship Grant recipient
Your gift of any size will make a huge difference.
You can make a regular donation via direct debit or make a one-off gift online.
Make a regular donation
Make a one-off gift
Support for student and staff-led projects that help local communities grow and prosper.
We provide hardship grants for students facing severe financial difficulty and funding for extra-curricular activities through student experience grants.
If you would like information about supporting a project or to find out more about the UWE Bristol Fund, please get in touch.
Contact UWE Bristol Fund enquiries
The UWE Bristol Fund provides grants to students facing financial difficulty, student-led community projects and students extra-curricular activities.
Explore the opportunities and find out more about applying.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/alumni/stay-connected/find-your-friends:
Please note: This service is for use by UWE Bristol alumni only.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/about/visit-us/places-to-stay:
Accommodation options for visitors and staff.
Bristol is the largest city in the South West and offers a variety of accommodation – from bed and breakfasts and hotels to serviced apartments.
The following websites provide useful information and contact details to help you find the right accommodation during your stay in Bristol.
You can also use Google maps to find accommodation near UWE Bristol campuses .
Accommodation Services can provide short-term accommodation for staff and visitors.
We have four modern 1-bedroom studios available for periods of a week up to a maximum of five months, within walking distance of UWE Bristol's main Frenchay Campus .
These studios aren't suitable for families or children and we don't accept pets.
If you're moving into one of our 1-bedroom studios, your utility bills will be included in the price (subject to fair usage policy) and wifi.
We'll also provide you with clean bed linen and towels on arrival.
The
studios are all fully furnished and maintained by our accommodation
team.
We're able to allocate one car parking space for each studio.
For vacancy enquiries and costs please email the Accommodation Team at accommodation@uwe.ac.uk .
You'll need to provide your arrival date and your departure date.
We offer a 24-hour key collection service.
If you're travelling out of working hours, we can arrange for your keys to be left securely.
We're more than happy to let you check out at any time up until 12:00 on your departure day.
Accommodation Services are unable to accept undergraduate students into the staff and visitor accommodation.
Accommodation Services UWE Bristol Frenchay Campus Coldharbour Lane Bristol BS16 1QY Tel: +44 (0)117 32 83601 Email: accommodation@uwe.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/news/find-an-expert:
Find UWE Bristol experts
Please contact the Media Relations team initially and we will find the best person to fit the bill for your article or programme.
We will then make the arrangements for the interviews to take place at a mutually convenient time and location.
Find UWE Bristol experts from the disciplines listed below.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/events/graduation-ceremonies:
Find out how to prepare for graduation and what happens on the day.
We email all provisionally eligible graduates inviting you to book a place at graduation.
Please check your contact details are up to date on MYUWE .
Find out how to book your place, get guest tickets and photographs, hire your robe and get a visa support letter.
Find out about travelling to Bristol Beacon, what happens once you’re there and how guests without tickets can watch the ceremony online.
Find out about getting your degree certificate and watching the video of your ceremony.
Contact us for enquiries about graduation ceremonies.
Find upcoming ceremony dates and the deadline for booking your place, hiring robes, buying guest tickets and photography.
Find out about accessibility at UWE Bristol graduation ceremonies at Bristol Beacon and how to tell us your access needs.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/events/bristol-distinguished-address-series:
Unique perspectives and insights from change makers, activists, entrepreneurs and people who have achieved amazing things in Bristol and beyond.
Our BDAS Spring 2025 events have finished to great success.
If you'd like to watch or listen to any of our wonderful conversations from this or previous years, browse our archives below.
We'll be back in the autumn with more exciting speakers and themes.
To be the first to hear when our new events are announced and to book tickets, please join our mailing list .
BDAS x Festival of Nature 2025, exploring the year's theme of 'Water'.
Two organisations in Bristol and Canada working together to support vulnerable youth and reduce violence.
The founder of The Wave talks about blue health and the power of surfing.
A celebration of the life of UWE Bristol Honorary Graduate, Dr Guy Bailey OBE.
Hear from Co-op Group's CEO and UWE Bristol alum, Shirine Khoury-Haq, as she shares her ideas on the values that underpin good business.
A conversation with celebrated Bristol land artist, sculptor and UWE alum, part of Being Human Festival 2024.
A Black History Month Celebration Special, with Dr Edson Burton and guests.
BBC Group's Director of Sustainability, Danielle explained how the BBC is becoming nature positive.
A conversation with Camilla Rigby and Rachel Mostyn, Co-Founders and CEOs of Bristol-based business the Women's Work Lab, as they explain how and why they are doing well by doing good.
Chef, musician and entrepreneur Levi Roots shared his captivating story in conversation at the Watershed as part of the 2024 Bristol Distinguished Address Series.
Poku Osei, founder and CEO of award-winning social enterprise Babbasa, joined us as part of the spring 2024 Bristol Distinguished Address Series.
Jonny, Head of the BBC Natural History Unit, joined us as part of the Autumn 2023 Bristol Distinguished Address series.
Want to hear about upcoming events in the Bristol Distinguished Address Series?
Read our answers to popular questions about the Bristol Distinguished Address Series events.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/events/inspire-me:
You’ve decided to study at university to broaden your horizons, to think bigger.
Our Inspire:Me series will get you thinking bigger towards a future that is yours to create.
Hear from our inspirational speakers from across multiple disciplines, speakers who are part of the UWE Bristol community, just like you – and went on to accomplish even more, just like you will.
Watch or listen to Keri Andriana's talk.
Watch or listen to Kieran Devlin's talk.
Watch or listen to Lewis Wedlock's talk.
Watch or listen to Lindsey Parietti's talk.
Watch or listen to Krystina's talk on "Smashing Stereotypes".
Watch or listen to Momin's talk on "If not you then, who?".
Watch or listen to Zara's talk on "Persevering with your Passions in the Face of Adversity".
Watch or listen to Elia's talk "Network Like Your Life Depends on It".
Watch or listen to Rema's talk "Getting the bag".
Watch or listen to Jasmine's talk "Art As Activism: Paving Your Own Path".
Watch Aida's talk titled "Why my mother's lost Rubles turned me into a diplomat: how we gain achievement from loss".
Watch Ravin's talk titled "My journey after UWE Bristol: From a Student to Associate to Partner".
Watch Pravanya's talk on what it means to be a leader.
Watch Jade's talk on what it means to be a Body Image Researcher.
Watch Darren's talk on Darren the power of ideas, how they can be realised and how they can help drive change.
Watch Rob's talk on greening events and challenging people's perceptions.
Watch a talk from Tom on startup life: idea, investment, implementation.
Watch Natalie's talk on creating the career you want whilst saving the world you love.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/events/glenside-museum-tour:
Hey Glenside Students!
Did you know there's an award-winning hospital museum right here on campus?
As an accredited museum, it's also a proud charity and community treasure — and you're invited to explore it with a free guided tour.
Meet the team at Glenside Library at 14:00 on Monday 8 September 2025 for the free guided tour.
After the tour, head over to the Library for some fun and games with donuts on us!

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/events/walk-around-eastville-park:
Come and explore our local green spaces with the Green Team!
This is the perfect way to get to know your local green spaces, meet others who care about the environment, and find out what the Green Team is all about.
Whether you're into nature, sustainability, or just want to get outside and meet new people, anyone is welcome.
Please email the Green Team at thegreenteam@uwe.ac.uk to reserve your space.
Meet us in the lower engagement space, Student Union Building 1, at 13:00.
We will be leaving at 13:10.
Find out more about getting to and from campus .
The Lower Engagement Space, Union 1 Frenchay Campus Coldharbour Lane Bristol BS16 1QY UK
Venue Information: Disabled parking: Yes – on campus Step-free access: Yes - On campus, potentially steps during the walk Automatic doors: Yes Accessible toilets: Yes - At the meeting place, toilets may not always be easily available once the event has started Induction loop: No Guide/ assistance dog-friendly: Yes Quiet spaces available: Yes
The Students’ Union at UWE welcomes all abilities/disabilities, ages, ethnicities, and genders into our spaces.
If you have any questions, concerns or additional requirements then please let us know so that we can make your time at this event as comfortable as possible.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/events/cafe-conversations-at-glenside:
Start your day the Glenside way!
Swing by for a light continental breakfast featuring a tasty spread of pastries, fresh fruit, and coffee.
It’s the perfect chance to relax, recharge, and ease into your new surroundings with a warm welcome and good company.
Glenside Hub Glenside Campus Blackberry Hill Bristol BS16 1QY UK

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/events/campus-tours-3:
Join one of our Frenchay Campus tours starting from the Student Life Hub, Purdown View at 12:30, 13:45, and 15:00.
It’s a perfect chance to get familiar with the campus, discover key spots, and chat with our friendly Student Life Assistants — ask anything, we’ve got answers!

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/events/frenchay-campus-tours-with-student-life:
Join one of our campus tours.
Tours start from the Student Life Hub at 12:30, 13:45 and 15:00.
It’s a perfect chance to get familiar with the campus, discover key spots and chat with our friendly Student Life assistants — ask anything, we’ve got answers!
Purdown View Student Life Hub Frenchay Campus Coldharbour Lane Bristol BS16 1QY UK

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/life/activities/sport/membership-and-prices/move:
Be active, have fun, feel good.
MOVE is designed to get you involved in activities that help you feel good and be active.
There are a huge variety of classes and more than 100 weekly sessions.
With so many different sessions available, you can try something new, take time to relax and meet lots of new people.
MOVE is free for all UWE Bristol students and is brought to you by UWE Bristol Sport and The Students' Union at UWE .
We also welcome UWE Bristol staff and members of our local community.
Booking is flexible and we offer a range of membership options.
Search MOVE activities on our interactive timetable .
Please note that there is a reduced timetable in July and August.
View the up-to-date timetable on the UWE Bristol Sport app where you can also book your slot.
Follow us on Instagram @uwebristolmove .
Explore MOVE membership options.
UWE Bristol students have MOVE membership automatically, so there’s no need to join.
You can book sessions on the UWE Bristol Sport app or through the Leisure Cloud .
For other information regarding MOVE, please contact us at MOVE@uwe.ac.uk .
UWE Bristol staff and immediate family members can get MOVE membership for £7.99 per month.
You can also book MOVE sessions via Pay as You Go.
If you have been a member at the Centre for Sport before, please email reception.sport@uwe.ac.uk to register your MOVE membership.
New members please register as a Pay as You Go member and then email reception.sport@uwe.ac.uk to activate your MOVE membership.
MOVE membership costs £7.99 per month.
Purchase your MOVE membership by direct debit.
Alternatively, you can book MOVE sessions via Pay as You Go .
Purchase Active Card membership to access MOVE sessions.
You can also book MOVE sessions via Pay as You Go .
If you aren't a MOVE member, you can book any of the weekly MOVE activities for £5 per session for staff and alumni or £7 per session for community.
To book:
Search for MOVE activities by location, day and time on our interactive MOVE timetable .
Download the UWE Bristol Sport app to view upcoming sessions and to book your place.
MOVE activities take place every day of the week at a variety of times and locations, including UWE Bristol campuses and across Bristol, so you can find a session that suits you.
Once you have signed up, log in to the UWE Bristol Sport app with your password to book sessions.
If you are unable to use the app, please book sessions online .
How to book
Our intramural leagues are open to all UWE Bristol students.
They typically start at the beginning of the academic year but feel free to contact our student activators to see if there are spaces available.
Football and netball leagues can contact the league coordinators:
Workout from home and take part in a fun and relaxed session led by MOVE instructors – for free.
To join a class, download the UWE Bristol Sport app and view the classes available on the Online Classes tab.
You can also take an on-demand class at a time that suits you for free.
Check our growing list of free on-demand classes .
Download the UWE Bristol Sport app for iPhone, iPad and Android devices.
Use it to book classes and facilities, get up-to-date information, news and offers.
Explore the gym facilities and range of exercise classes at the Centre for Sport on Frenchay Campus.
View an A-Z list of all the sports and activities taking place at UWE Bristol.
With more than 40 sports clubs available, join Team UWE Bristol and play competitively for your university.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/life/campus-and-facilities/campus-tours:
Can’t make one of our On Campus Open Days but want to explore our campuses for yourself?
There are lots of ways to discover what's on offer here.
You can download our self-guided campus tour and visit us at a time that suits you.
Or why not take a virtual tour where you'll get to discover the areas important to you from the comfort of your own home.
Can’t make one of our open days and fancy glimpsing university life on a business as usual day?
Download your tour and come and see us at a time that suits you.
Explore our campuses with a guided campus tour.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/about/values-vision-strategy/equality-diversity-and-inclusivity:
Equity, diversity and inclusivity (EDI) underpin our core values.
We are working to ensure that our commitment to equality is reflected in the behaviour, values and practices throughout the University.
We are actively seeking to promote a culture where discrimination, bullying and harassment of any student or member of staff is unacceptable.
Find out what anti-racism is, why it's a priority at UWE Bristol and what steps you can take towards creating anti-racism environments.
We want to ensure the best possible experience for all students and staff.
We will ensure that all staff and students have opportunities to influence decision-making about provision affecting their experiences.
100 Black Women Professors NOW programme aims to increase the number of Black women at every stage of the academic pipeline.
We want to ensure that our learning programmes are accessible and take into account the different needs of our students and staff.
Guidance for students, staff, visitors and contractors about reporting bullying, harassment and hate incidents.
Discover how the University uses equity and diversity data, plus access the latest statistics.
UWE Bristol is one of the proud founding signatories who have pledged to take action to remove the barriers and face the challenges affecting technical staff.
Our EDI Champions are passionate members of staff who volunteer to help raise the profile of EDI at UWE Bristol.
Documents and links to our equity and diversity-related policies and procedures.
"At UWE Bristol, we passionately believe in inclusivity and opportunity for all students, staff and the wider community.
We recognise the key role education has in helping transform society, to the benefit of all individuals and communities."
We use charter marks to inform our practice and support with embedding change across the whole university.
The aims of our Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity 2030 strategy are:
The University hosts a range of equality and diversity events aimed at a variety of audiences.
Members of staff at UWE Bristol can log in to the intranet for staff-only information on equality, diversity and inclusivity.
Learn how the University is taking positive action to improve the opportunities and experience of under-represented groups of staff and students.
Support services and resources for students who identify as Global Majority.
Learn how UWE Bristol supports sanctuary seekers through scholarships, partnerships, and inclusive initiatives.
Ways to contact the Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity (EDI) Team.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/study/library/browse-resources-a-z/black-history-resources:
We've collated resource collections containing fiction, non-fiction, films, and documentaries about Black history and Black experience.
Our lists have a mixture of digital and physical resources.
These lists are not exhaustive, you can find more items in the collection using library search.
Search the collection
Explore our projects and initiatives to encourage staff and students to take charge in diversifying and decolonising our libraries.
Decolonising your Library
Black History Month is an important moment in both UWE Bristol's and Bristol city's calendar - a celebration of Britain's African and Caribbean communities.
Information about decolonising and diversifying Library Services.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/study/library/our-libraries:
Contact details, location, accessibility information and Frenchay Library facilities.
Contact details, location, accessibility information and Glenside Library facilities.
Contact details, location, accessibility information and Bower Ashton Library facilities.
View opening hours and library staff availability.
What the library offers, our strategy and plans, code of conduct and achievements as a service.
A-Z listing of all resources.
Browse databases that the library subscribes to.
You can browse A-Z and by subject.
Many of our databases are also available via our main library search.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/study/library/contact-us:
Get help to find information, access online resources, referencing, your library account, and any other library issue.
Complete our online enquiry form
Our Enquiries team, or your Subject Librarian will reply within two working days.
If you need an urgent response, please use our chat service.
Connect with your Library subject teams for specialist help.
View Learning Hub teams
Information on library maintenance that may cause disruption for users.
Find out about known problems and scheduled maintenance likely to affect access to databases.
Visit our individual library pages to find out more about our facilities and find contact details, our locations and accessibility information.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/study/study-support/study-skills/library-study-skills-support:
If you need help, eg with an assignment, you can ask at a library help desk or via the online enquiry
service as your first step.
If your query can't be answered immediately, you may be referred
to:
From making notes to structuring your writing, we offer a number of study skills workshops to students.
Our core workshops are:
Book study skills workshops
Browse study skills sessions
As an alternative to attending our study skills workshops, you can also use our 'How to...' workbooks, which are closely aligned with the workshop sessions.
You'll find similar exercises in them, but different examples.
These are perfect for you if you can't make it to any of our sessions, prefer to work at your own pace, or would like to recap a workshop you have attended.
Browse our full range of study skills online workbooks.
View online study skills support by topic
If you have already tried the above options and have some questions, you may wish to book a one-to-one appointment with a member of library staff.
Appointments last around 30-45 minutes and are dependent on staff availability.
Bookings can be made via InfoHub Appointments during periods of peak demand, and can be arranged through our online enquiry service at other times.
When you book an appointment, please supply the following information:
During an appointment, library staff will be able to look at small sections of your work and coach you to apply study skills techniques.
If you need subject-specific support please get in touch with your Library subject team.
Library subject teams
Please note that we do not offer a proof-reading service.
Many colleges may provide appointments, workshops or one-to-one sessions tailored to your subject.
College study support
Get feedback on your writing before you submit your work through various support from UWE Bristol.
Get writing feedback
Use our online resource to discover how and why to avoid the pitfalls of plagiarism.
We've put together a guide for using this resource (PDF) .
Open resource

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/study/study-support/study-skills:
Guides to referencing standards in use at UWE Bristol and links to some useful referencing tools.
Improve your academic literacy, English language skills, and learn about plagiarism and copyright.
Online advice and tutorials to help you develop your research skills.
Find out about English language and grammar support for students at UWE Bristol
Advice to help you prepare for assignments and exams.
Guidance to help you manage your time effectively and sort out your priorities.
Resources that will develop your skills in mathematics, statistics and numeracy.
Advice on preparing presentations and working on group projects.
IT, software and programming skills, including online tutorials.
Online tutorials and advice to help you prepare for academic study at UWE Bristol.
Mon 15 September 2025, 11:00
This session provides an overview of how to use generative AI effectively at UWE Bristol.
Come along and find out how to access it, what to expect and how to use it for best results.
Tue 23 September 2025, 11:00
This session builds on the Introduction to generative AI session, demonstrating useful prompts to help you with things like reading, revising and planning
Tue 23 September 2025, 17:30
Thu 25 September 2025, 11:00
Thu 25 September 2025, 17:30
Mon 29 September 2025, 10:00
A friendly session for international students to meet support staff, learn about UWE Bristol services and ask questions about studying here.
Our coaches can help you to overcome anxiety connected to life at university by finding support and skills to overcome issues and achieve your goals.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/study/study-support/english-language:
UWE Bristol offers support to all students to meet their academic language and communication needs.
The Global Student Support Team, together with library staff, run regular events focusing on different themes including culture, home study, English language and more.
View Global Cafe events
Study support specialists in your
college may provide one-to-one support.
If you have any queries, please contact the Library .
Led by students for students, the Student Life Team are here to help you feel at home whilst at UWE Bristol.
Be part of the community by attending events and getting support from this team.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/study/study-support/college-study-support:
College-specific study support tailored for your subject.
You can browse the study skills web pages to find advice and support to help you develop your university-level academic skills.
The study support team in the College of Arts, Technology and Environment (CATE) can help with developing your academic skills, one-to-one support, language and dyslexia support.
The Royal Literary Fund is sponsoring Jamie Lee Searle as a Writing Fellow for students from the School of Arts .
In one-to-one consultations Jamie can:
Jamie is available on Tuesdays and Wednesdays in 2S411 on Frenchay Campus.
Appointments are flexible to your needs.
To book an appointment, email Jamie at jamie.searle@rlfeducation.org.uk .
Workshops covering presentation structure, body-language, projection, and dealing with nerves.
Workshop dates to be confirmed.
In one-to-one appointments City Campus study support staff can:
Appointments are available at Room 1F5, City Campus at Bower Ashton .
Come along for a chat, sign-up for a one-to-one tutorial or email the Academic Learning Development (ALD) team at academicsupport.city@uwe.ac.uk .
Get help if you are disabled
If you need help with a particular mathematical or statistical problem, please consult the mathematics and statistics information.
It includes information on the one-to-one espressoMaths drop-in service that runs at Frenchay during term time .
If you need help with a programming problem please consult the IT study skills information .
It includes information on the one-to-one espressoProgramming drop-in service that runs at Frenchay during term time .
The College of Business and Law (CBL) Learning Hub provides academic skills support in the form of workshops, online workbooks and one-to-one support.
To attend an activity or book an appointment, visit Infohub or the Events Diary , or contact the Library .
For help with booking, please view our video guide to booking an appointment or workshop at the Learning Hub in Bristol Business School .
You may also find our 10 top tips to improve your marks for business students (PDF) and law students (PDF) helpful.
We can support you via one-to-one appointments to discuss individual learning issues and workshops (including Peer Assisted Learning workshops) covering a range of topics, such as:
The timetable of scheduled events varies.
View upcoming workshops
The College of Health, Science and Society (CHSS) provides one-to-one and online study skills support.
The School of Social Sciences is offering all foundation, undergraduate and postgraduate students support to improve their writing skills.
In one-to-one sessions professional writers, Clare and Claire, can help you improve your writing by:
They can discuss work you're doing for current assignments and give you feedback on assignments you have completed.
You can meet early on in the process if you are unsure or overwhelmed: you don't have to wait until an assignment is almost due in.
In fact, you can bring to them any concerns at all that you have about your writing.
Clare and Claire are here to help you express your thoughts better on paper and to develop your own voice and writing style.
Appointments are free, one to one, and completely confidential.
Clare and Claire will be holding sessions in 3B022 on Frenchay Campus as well as some online sessions.
You can book an appointment by emailing them.
Appointments generally last around 50 minutes.
Clare Furniss is a best-selling author of novels for young adults Her forthcoming book, The Things We Leave Behind (Simon and Schuster), interweaves fairy tales with a story set in a near-future world.
Clare has worked as a lecturer on the BA Creative Writing at Bath Spa University and as a Manuscript Tutor on the Bath Spa MA Writing for Young People.
She previously worked in media relations in politics and the charity sector.
Claire Williamson is a poet, who also writes words for Welsh National Opera and practices therapeutic writing in health and social care.
Claire worked as a Programme Leader for a social science based course at Metanoia for ten years.
An online guide to academic writing presented by Julian Evans is also available.
Ann Cowling offers one-to-one sessions for students in the School of Education and Childhood in the following areas:
To book an appointment email Ann at ann.cowling@uwe.ac.uk .
Ann is based in 3S302, S Block, Frenchay Campus.
If you need help with a particular mathematical or statistical problem please consult the mathematics and statistics information.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/study/study-support/study-skills/college-workbooks:
For general study skills, online advice and workbooks, please take a look at our study skills topics.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/about/values-vision-strategy/sustainability:
Our world can't wait.
We must not wait.
The climate and ecological emergency is the defining issue of our time.
As a University, as a diverse community of global citizens, we have a shared responsibility to work together to address the urgency of the challenges we all now face.
Find out how we are transforming our world for better, for all, for good – as we push ahead on our #OurPathTo2030.
Education for Sustainable Development (ESD) sits at the heart of UWE Bristol’s institutional strategy and teaching and learning framework.
Our research and collaborations and their focus on social, economic and environmental sustainability.
Our Climate Education course free for all students, available through Blackboard.
Our targets for 2030 and initiatives for sustainable travel including eco-friendly ways to get to campus.
Our carbon, energy and water management plans and projects, including our passivhaus student accommodation.
Our commitment to the circular economy, our initiatives to reduce, reuse and recycle, and our recycling facilities on campus.
Our support for biodiversity including the Beeline project, community gardens, meadowscaping and edible plant nurseries.
Our commitment to Fairtrade and what it means for our campaigning, the products in our cafes and study opportunities for students.
Our provision of healthy, planet friendly food for our students and staff and the public in our cafes and conferencing.
Our strategy to deliver sustainable procurement and work with our suppliers to reduce emissions in line with our policy.
Our independently audited ISO 14001 certification and its application in all aspects of our organisation.
Find out how you can get involved in sustainability at UWE Bristol and make a difference on campus and at home.
Winner
of Institute of the year, Green Gown Awards 2023.
Highest score
by The Student Union at UWE for 9th year in a row, Excellent ranking in NUS Green Impact Award 2023-24.
First class
environmental and ethical performance, 25th in People & Planet League 2024.
Find out about the latest news and events relating to sustainability.
Sustainability news
Sustainability events
Details of local and national awards and the recognition UWE Bristol has received for our contribution to sustainability.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/about/values-vision-strategy/sustainability/get-involved:
UWE Bristol has nearly 40,000 students and 4,300 staff and together we are making change happen.
With climate action becoming ever more urgent, the importance of engaging students staff and the public in making a sustainable university is central to our communications events and activities.
Find out more about what you can do and how to get involved.
Visit The Students' Union at UWE
for more ideas
All new staff attend the staff welcome fair at which there is a sustainability session, covering our strategy, how it translates into action and how you can get involved.
This is supplemented by online training, a general induction, and our Climate Action Series, which is available on the My Learning platform for staff and via Blackboard for students.
All staff are welcome to attend meetings of the Sustainability Executive committee at which the Sustainability Strategy, Carbon Management Plan and other relevant strategic areas of sustainable development are discussed and reported.
Union members can get involved through their unions, which have representation at the Sustainability Executive committee.
Academic staff are urged to explore how to embed and develop sustainability within their teaching and research.
For support, contact Professor Georgina Gough, who coordinates UWE Bristol's cross-institutional Knowledge Exchange for Sustainability Education .
In addition, there are many formal and informal research clusters focussing on sustainability .
Our Changing Climate Network draws together staff with interests in climate change, encourage cross-disciplinary collaborations and support funding bids for related research.
For more information email Lindsay Walker at lindsay.walker@uwe.ac.uk .
A handy guide to recycling around campus - what items you can recycle and how to do it.
Details on UWE Bristol's targets and initiatives for sustainable travel, including eco-friendly ways to get to campus, our TravelSmart plan to reduce reliance on car use and our bike loan scheme.
Based at Frenchay Campus, the Sustainability Hub offers access to affordable, pre-loved items and promotes reuse.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/about/values-vision-strategy/sustainability/reduce-reuse-recycle:
Reduce, reuse and recycle.
"The circular economy is a system where materials never become waste and nature is regenerated.
In a circular economy, products and materials are kept in circulation through processes like maintenance, reuse, refurbishment, remanufacture, recycling, and composting."
Ellen MacArthur Foundation
The circular economy is a key principle of our approach.
It is based on key principles which are linked with design, system and behaviour change:
Underpinned by a transition to renewable energy and materials, the circular economy is a resilient system that is good for business, people and the environment.
Our figures for 2022/23 are:
An initiative in which students, technicians, staff, community volunteers, and industry helpers work together to repair items brought in by the community for free.
In practice, we not only need different systems of design and production but also for people to change how they do things.
The following initiatives support people to make simple planet friendly changes at UWE Bristol.
Information on which items you can recycle on campus and how to recycle them.
We can support you by providing advice on developing project ideas, data, and waste and resource management industry contacts.
Here are examples of study projects which have helped us to improve the sustainability of UWE Bristol:
There are also opportunities for volunteering, student placements and internships.
Contact us at sustainability@uwe.ac.uk for more information.
The Sustainability Hub provides students and staff with an easy way to swap and pass on reusable items.
Students can volunteer here – a fun and flexible way to gain practical experience of reuse as well as meeting like-minded people and gaining a reference.
Sign up on Infohub (login required).

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/about/values-vision-strategy/sustainability/carbon-energy-and-water-management:
UWE Bristol has committed to be carbon neutral as an organisation, with net-zero emissions of greenhouse gases by 2030.
This covers all carbon emissions (known as Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions), produced as a result of our activities on and off campus, which includes our own use of electricity and gas, travel of staff and students, and the carbon related to all our purchases (water, construction, food, laboratory and research materials, and so forth).
It is a huge commitment and an enormous challenge.
The Carbon and Energy Management Plan 2020-2030 (PDF) , produced in consultation with students and staff, outlines the University's commitment and ambition for reducing our carbon emissions.
Using science-based targets, this outlines how we will reach net-zero through working through the carbon reduction hierarchy to avoid, reduce and replace before considering means to compensate for carbon emissions (e.g.
through offsetting and insetting ).
Our latest targets can be found in our Climate and Sustainability plan 2024-2026 .
The UWE Bristol Heat Decarbonisation Plan is constantly being worked on.
This will identify the clear route to decarbonise the UWE Bristol campuses to achieve the net-zero target.
We are part of the Race to Zero and are leading the education sector for a healthy and resilient zero carbon recovery.
UWE Bristol is committed to:
Scope 3 presents the most significant challenge in reaching our carbon reduction targets with large parts of our footprint laying outside our direct operational and financial control.
To assist us in our work in March 2023 we were one of the first universities in the country to hire a member of staff to focus solely on scope 3 emissions.
Our strategy for addressing scope 3 emissions is based on three areas:
Our carbon emissions table (PDF) shows our progress in all scopes since our baseline date to 2022/23.
To pursue our ambitious carbon reduction commitments, the University has established a dedicated £1 million annual fund, strategically augmented by substantial internal investments based on impactful and compelling project proposals and leveraged through external funding opportunities.
By way of illustration of our commitment, In the last five years we’ve invested in decarbonising our campus including:
The Water Management Plan 2020-2030 (PDF) outlines the approach UWE Bristol take to ensuring good water management.
The Carbon and Energy Team is continuously monitoring water use patterns and identifying water saving measures across the University.
Successes include:
There is an ongoing programme of projects being carried out to reduce the University's water consumption.
The following are a selection of more recent examples:
UWE Bristol is committed to maximise the solar photovoltaic potential on our sites and already generates our own energy from both solar photovoltaics and from our CHP engines.
At the time of installation in 2015, the array on the Frenchay Campus T-block was the largest single roof-mounted solar installation in the UK higher education sector.
Since then we have increased our solar arrays and in the 2022/23 academic year generated 456 MWh, saving 94 tonnes of CO2 and reducing UWE Bristol operating costs by £114,000.
Alongside this, UWE Bristol purchases 20% all electricity from a power purchase ;agreement.
Supporting UK onshore wind, this electricity is generated from the following Statkraft wind farms:
The remainder of our electricity is purchased from the grid under a zero-carbon contract.
UWE Bristol's ambition is to increase the use of renewables through further installations of solar photovoltaics on site, and through entering more power purchase agreements to support new developments of renewables in the UK.
We are continuously working on new projects to reduce the University’s energy consumption and proactively save money.
Below are some examples of the Energy Team's recent work.
We take pride in working to high sustainability standards for all capital projects, both new build and refurbishments.
UWE Bristol's new School of Engineering building on Frenchay campus has achieved an "Excellent" rating for its green credentials from the international scheme BREEAM (Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method).
Examples of the sustainability best practice employed in the building include having lots of natural ventilation, installing PV (solar) panels, connection to UWE Bristol's district heating network, use of underfloor heating and use of materials with high thermal mass (the ability of a material to absorb and store heat energy).
Alistair Brooke, Assistant Director of Estates commented on the project: "A fantastic achievement for UWE Bristol and the Project Team.
Strong collaboration enabled sustainability to be embedded from the early stages of the project and ultimately led to the success of the scheme.
The project is a further endorsement of UWE Bristol's commitment to sustainability and innovation across its estate."
Our new, 900-bed student accommodation has been built to Passivhaus standards.
It is one of the largest low-carbon certified developments of its kind anywhere in Europe and a first for the university sector in the UK.
The buildings will yield a 54% reduction in running costs and carbon emissions compared with a typical ‘good practice’ building.
We are continuously working on new energy projects to reduce the University’s energy consumption, reduce carbon emissions, and reduce the university running costs, below are just some examples of the Energy Team's recent work.
A low carbon district heating network supplied by gas-fired combined heat and power ( CHP ) plant has been in operation since November 2020.
It meets 35% of the Frenchay Campus heat requirements and 21% of all the electricity used on the campus.
It saves 700 tonnes of carbon dioxide (tCO 2 ) per year and provide a financial payback within seven years.
Funding has now been secured to extend the network in 2024/25 in readiness for installing additional low carbon heat sources in line with the Heat Decarbonisation Plan.
The CHP is housed in the T-block Energy Centre, with the district heating network supplying heat to the following buildings on campus: the Students’ Union building, the School of Business and Law building, the new Engineering building, the Frenchay Library, Robotics, the University Enterprise Zone, the Exhibition and Conference Centre and part of the Wallscourt Park residences.
During  2024/25, the network will extend to S block, A-N blocks, Q block, R block, the Farmhouse and the remainder of Wallscourt park residences.
In the summer of 2020 a project started to upgrade the electric heating and the controls in the Student Village.
This covered around 70% of the rooms.
The new heating controls, supplied by Prefect, have built in PIRs ensuring less energy waste because the controls switch off after 10 minutes of inactivity in the room.
The new controls now give the students control over whether they want their heating in low, medium or high mode and can also use the boost setting for extra heat.
Along with this, accommodation staff can make changes via a web portal rather than having to enter student bedrooms.
Other energy saving measures include open window detection, which will sense a drop in temperature and determine that leaving the heating on would waste energy and will again switch off.
Approx.
savings seen in Brecon Court: Feb 2020 vs.
Feb 2021 – 16% reduction in energy use, saving 15,300 kWh and 3.2 tCO₂e.
The remaining 30% of the Student Village was completed July-Sept 2021 ready for the new students arriving for the 2021/22 academic year.
Due to the success of this project it was decided in September 2020 that houses 1-38 in Wallscourt Park would also be upgraded from gas central heating to electric heating, using the same controls.
Most recently (May 2021) The Hollies had a Prefect install to upgrade their heating controls.
At the same time the hot water tanks had new heating elements installed (two per tank) which are more energy efficient, easier to manage via the online portal and don’t both run at the same time unless necessary, giving further energy savings.
Prefect controls are now specified as standard as part of any student accommodation new builds and have been installed in our new passivhaus accommodation Purdown View.
There have been some large lighting upgrades at UWE Bristol.
In 2018/19 alone we committed £822,000 for a number of lighting design schemes which were projected to deliver 283 tonnes of carbon savings per year.
LED fittings and intelligent controls were installed in areas including: the Exhibition and Conference Centre (internal and external lighting), S-block internal lighting, R-block external lighting, Mallard House internal and external lighting, Q-block internal lighting and Centre for Sports communal areas and corridors.
Other lighting upgrades have taken place throughout the estate, although these have been smaller projects.
The lighting in T Block storage area was upgraded from sodium fittings to LED’s which is estimated to have saved 155,800 kWh and 39.5 tCO₂ each year.
Lighting on Level 3 of the Arnolfini was upgraded in 2022, replacing fluorescent fittings with LEDs.
There are still patches of older lighting across the estate which will be upgraded to LED over the coming few years.
Sometimes this will be as standalone projects but may also be included as part of area refurbishments.
There is a plan to upgrade old, inefficient transformers across the estate.
The E and N Block transformers at Frenchay Campus were the first to have been changed to new technology.
The estimated savings for these two blocks are 75,000 kWh and 19 tCO₂ per year.
This was followed by Frenchay B Block and F Block transformer upgrades.
These upgrades are estimated to provide savings of 47,000 kWh / 12 tCO₂ and 94,000 kWh / 24tCO₂ respectively.
Further transformers will be changed over the coming years.
Pipework insulation has been installed/upgraded in various plant room areas across all campuses in a bid to minimise wasted heat.
This is an ongoing programme with further pipework insulation being installed where necessary.
All of the UWE Bristol solar photovoltaic arrays are regularly maintained and cleaned to ensure that they are providing optimal performance.
There is also a desire to add more PV arrays and a feasibility study has been undertaken at Frenchay Campus and Bower Ashton Campus to identify the best roofs for further installations.
In the coming years the plan is to add PV to all appropriate roofs.
This will form part of UWE Bristol’s route to meeting its net zero target by 2030.
All new buildings will have PV added to them and existing buildings will have PV retrofitted wherever possible.
Our Energy Management Software records consumption of electricity, gas, water and heat from over 1,200 meters across the UWE Bristol sites.
This data is used to monitor and measure consumption, enabling variations in profile to be spotted and investigated.
This data is also available for students and academics to use for projects, ensuring that we use our own campus as a Living Lab.
We are continually developing and extending the coverage of the automatic metering infrastructure on all campuses to allow greater monitoring and measurement of energy consumption.
The journey to net zero needs everyone at UWE Bristol to understand and participate in action to push forward change.
To help all staff and students at UWE Bristol feel they have both the knowledge and the ability to make a real and significant difference, we run a Climate Action programme which includes:
Our work is presenting increasing academic and research opportunities for our students and staff.
The Energy Team are exploring the Living Lab concept with the aim of enhancing our academic offerings,  encouraging collaboration, increasing research opportunities, and ensuring our access to the latest research with a view to enhancing future projects.
As we develop the Living Lab over the coming years, we plan to widen it out to include partnerships with other education institutions, industry and regional partners.
Email: energyteam@uwe.ac.uk
Students and academics are welcome to contact us for statistics on our carbon data, campus and building energy and water use, display energy certificates and access to more detailed consumption data.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/courses/international-study/international-student-support:
For more information on all the support services available at UWE Bristol for international and EU students.
The Global Student Support Team offer information and advice to ensure you receive all the support you need to get the best from your time at UWE Bristol.
We are here to help you to settle in when you first arrive at UWE Bristol and organise social events to help you to adapt to your new environment.
There are lots of things to do before coming to UWE Bristol from making your travel arrangements to sorting your accommodation in the UK and applying for your visa.
We offer an airport transfer for our international and European students.
Advice and information for when you arrive and to help you settle in to life in the UK and at the University.
Designed to coincide with your course induction and registration activities, this will give you important information about UWE Bristol and the Bristol community.
UWE Thrive is a free online course for undergraduate and postgraduate international students to help with your transition to the UK and prepare you for your studies at UWE Bristol and your future career.
Find out what help is available to you if you need English language support before or during your studies.
Career services, working and volunteering whilst studying and global opportunities.
Peer Assisted Learning (PAL) Leaders can help you adjust to life at the university and in Bristol by sharing their knowledge and experience.
Information and advice to help you prepare for your studies at UWE Bristol.
Find out about events available to international and European students studying at UWE Bristol.
The UWE Global Buddy Programme supports new international student’s transition into a new environment.
"There is incredible support at UWE Bristol.
I was very impressed with how different the learning environment was.
Classes were so interactive, very hands-on, taught in small groups and a great mix of different cultures."
Nkechi MSc International Human Resource Management
Accessing health services, registering with a doctor, emergency support and medicines.
If you've remained living on campus through this period, please join the UWE Bristol campus resident support group .
The Accommodation Team are ready and waiting to support you through your stay.
Free telephone helpline service to seek assistance on a range of issues.
This project offers a free telephone helpline service to the Chinese community in the South West region.
You can contact them by phone 0808 802 0012 or email helpline.bacwg@btconnect.com .
The newly launched International Students app provides dedicated support for international students.
From advice on health and well-being, to housing, finance and study support.
It's filled with practical tips and advice to support you once you arrive in the UK, including making friends and learning the English language.
The app is available on both iPhone and Android .
Nilaari is a local Back, Asian and Minority Ethnic-led charity with therapists delivering support talking therapies and workshops for students experiencing the rigours of university life.
The charity is currently offering all services via telephone.
The Students' Union at UWE represents all UWE Bristol students.
Through the Student's Union you can try new opportunities, find support, and become part of a community.
There are lots of opportunities to find a community where you can share your experiences and get to know other students.
There are over 30 student-led national, faith and identity societies for you to choose from.
They will help you to meet people with the same interests or beliefs, as well as learn about new cultures.
Please get in touch if you have questions:
Find out about a wide range of events and activities by
following our Instagram page .
View our range of scholarships on offer for undergraduate and postgraduate applicants.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/courses/international-study/international-student-support/english-language-support:
Our Pre-sessional English Programme is designed for international students who need to reach the level of English language required to undertake a course of Higher Education at UWE Bristol.
We offer courses of different lengths depending on the level of support you need.
As well improving your English language skills, the course will also enable you to develop the study skills necessary to succeed in your chosen programme of study.
Ten- and five-week pre-sessional students may be eligible for a joint Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) to cover both pre-sessional English and main programme of studies.
Please contact the International Admissions Team for details and eligibility criteria.
We offer a range of workshops and support to help you with your English Language skills during your studies.
To study at UWE Bristol you need a recognised English Language qualification of at least GCSE grade C or the equivalent standard.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/events/careers-and-enterprise-events/employers-fair:
UWE Bristol's Careers and Enterprise team are excited to present a calendar of employer fairs and events for the upcoming academic year.
This academic year we are offering a variety of face-to-face on-campus and virtual careers and employer fairs and events.
The UWE Careers and Enterprise Team are currently in the planning stages for next academic year.
We very much look forward to sharing with you an exciting programme of employer and student engagement activities very soon.
Most of these opportunities will take place in person across our various campuses.
Lasting anything from a few days to a whole year, you’ll get first-hand experience in your chosen industry by doing a placement.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/study/career-development/equity:
The Equity award-winning programme is aimed at providing personal and professional development opportunities for Global Majority* students.
Equity provides Global Majority students with opportunities and safe spaces to:
Join the student mailing list
* Global Majority is a collective term that refers to people who are Black, Asian, Brown, Mixed Heritage, Indigenous to the Global South and/or are not racialised as White.
Using ‘Global Majority’ denotes a move away from Eurocentrism, acknowledging that people from these backgrounds represent approximately 85% of the world’s population.
Check out two, special Equity events in collaboration with the Bristol Distinguished Address Series from last year.
Jenny Garrett OBE is a renowned TEDx speaker.
She talked to UWE Bristol about her work on race equality, anti-racism and owning your cultural capital and identity.
Jenny Garrett BDAS talk
Poku Osei, founder and CEO of Bristol-based social enterprise Babbasa, spoke to us about about pursuing purpose against all odds.
Poku Osei BDAS talk
Equity in collaboration with The Students' Union at UWE present Sayo - Self-realisation and journey to success.
Paul Olomolaiye, Pro Vice-Chancellor for Equalities and Civic Engagement, welcomed the inspiring social media influencer Sayo, who gave a powerful talk about her journey thus far, including when she realised her true potential, and how she went about achieving her ambitions.
Woven into the talk, Sayo performed "Kpoetry" - an exaggerated spoken word performance bringing together parts of her Nigerian heritage and British upbringing to the delight of the audience who had joined the online event.
The talk was followed by a Q&A session hosted by Rania Regaieg, Vice President Community and Welfare from The Students’ Union at UWE, when Sayo spoke candidly about techniques that empowered her to overcome any challenges.
Sayo is a writer, poet, presenter, creative, tech founder and award-winning journalist.
You can follow her on Instagram , TikTok and X .
Watch the webinar
This webinar was hosted by Bobbi O'Gilvie to help empower students to leverage the power of networking to reach their goals.
The following areas are covered:
This webinar was delivered by Bobbi O’Gilvie, Founder of Ready to Blog Designs.
She discussed how to stay motivated as a black, Asian and minority ethnic person and overcome challenges to succeed in the world of work
This workshop was hosted by Vanessa Maria to support your general wellbeing in and outside of your studies.
This is a space where you can learn more about managing stress and anxiety, build up your confidence and self-esteem and work towards becoming your best possible self.
We touch on the following:
UWE Bristol academic Xavier Baker chaired the panel discuss their journeys to success and their struggle in becoming black, Asian and minority ethnic leaders in their diverse sectors.
They explored what they learnt and developed themselves whilst working towards their end goals amongst the barriers for black, Asian and minority ethnic in comparison of white counterparts.
The panel also imparted their knowledge and experience of how to challenge barriers and overcome obstacles.
Introducing our panellists:
We have an opportunity every year for undergraduate Global Majority students to join the Equity Module, which is aimed at providing personal and professional development opportunities for students.
Equity module
Mentoring provides you with career support from an industry professional.
Equity mentoring is an innovative, positive-action talent programme.
Equity is a positive action programme that's all about providing additional support to help overcome disadvantage and barriers.
Positive action is lawful under the Equality Act 2010 and education providers can offer additional support for underrepresented and disadvantaged groups based on past discrimination.
In our most recent data from the 2021/22 academic year, the attainment gap between Global Majority students and white students is 14.9 percentage points, and the gap between black students and white students is 32.9 percentage points.
The awarding gap is the percentage point difference in good honours degree.
Comparison groups are based on groups used by the Office for Students in the Access and Participation Plan datasets.
The Equity programme aims align with the University's Strategy 2030 to address Global Majority students attainment gap and increase their sense of belonging and identity within our university community, support students to graduate with Good Honours degree and positive Graduate Outcomes.
Opportunities include:
"It’s an opportunity to have an internal reflection about who you are, where you come from, and where you see yourself going.
And having that discussion with people who have your better interests at heart.
I hadn’t had that opportunity before."
Xavier Baker UWE Bristol graduate
Catch up with the latest news from our Equity blog
Access online resources to help you build your confidence and skills, no matter what stage you are at in your career journey.
Careers service drop-ins and appointments.
This internship scheme is an opportunity for UWE Bristol students and graduates to gain valuable work experience in a range of employment sectors over the summer period.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/study/innovation-and-enterprise/innovation-and-enterprise-calendar:
Our jam-packed calendar will keep you busy throughout the year.
Learn to be your own boss at our workshops, take part in Global Enterprise Week events or pitch your ideas to be in the running for Venture Ready Award prizes.
GEW is the world’s largest campaign to promote entrepreneurship.
We have a host of activities on offer to celebrate GEW, including test trading opportunities, workshops, networking and guest speakers.
Workshops, events and activities to explore ideas and turn your passion into a livelihood.
Learn how to make money doing what you love and how to successfully manage a freelance or portfolio career.
Come to them all or choose individual workshops based on your needs at Frenchay.
You can now sign up for these by searching ‘BYOB’ via events on InfoHub .
Your Future in Freelancing (YFIF) is a series of workshops at City Campus to help you develop commercial awareness and business skills on your path to becoming a freelancer or self-employed.
We hold an annual Venture Ready Award pitching event in partnership with Santander Universities to support the growth of existing student businesses or social enterprise.
Up to ten of the best ideas are chosen to be pitched in front of a panel of judges, with the chance of winning up to £5,000.
Build your network and hear local entrepreneurs’ start-up experiences, as well as one-minute promotional pitches from audience members.
Please register for start-up events via InfoHub.
Online resources, business advice clinics, an entrepreneurs support programme and a team of enterprise advisers.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/events/global-morning-coffee-10:
Meet our Healthcare professionals and Global Buddies who will be there to help you with questions on topics such as registering with a doctor, accessing emergency treatment, and how to open bank accounts!

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/events/life-in-the-uk-what-to-know:
We are excited to welcome our friendly UWE Bristol Police Officers to share everything you need to know about common types of fraud targeting students.
Learn how to spot red flags, safeguard your personal information, and report suspicious activities such as Hate crime.
The Home Office will also be here to highlight regulations that may affect your right to remain in the UK and provide top tips on student work rules.
Empower yourself with knowledge, support, and practical advice at this essential session!
Join us for a valuable and interactive session featuring expert guest speakers:

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/events/transport-in-bristol-1:
Join our Global Buddies as they share their top tips on using buses, bikes, coaches, and trains to explore Bristol and beyond.
From how to catch your first bus to navigating rail apps and travel cards, this relaxed and friendly session will help you feel more confident and connected as you settle into your new home.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/events/bristol-street-art-tour:
Come and join us to explore Bristol's amazing street art culture.
This interactive walking tour is led by a professional tour guide who’ll be revealing stories about art works by the world-famous Bristol artist Banksy and lesser-known artists.
You’ll be able to amaze your friends and family with your knowledge when they come to visit!
This event is free, but please book your place in advance.
You’ll need to cover your own transport and any personal expenses.
Please download the First Bus app before the event so you can buy your own bus ticket to the city centre.
Meet the tour guide at Ka Fei (blue shipping container), Colston Avenue, BS1 4ST at 10:45.
The tour will start at 11:00, so please ensure you arrive early.
Ka Fei (blue shipping container) City centre Colston Avenue Bristol BS1 4ST UK

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/events/global-morning-coffee-11:
A morning welcome from the Global Student Support team who are here to provide you with all the support and guidance you need to help you to settle into student life at UWE Bristol!

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/events/meet-the-global-support-teams-4:
5X108, X block Frenchay Campus Coldharbour Lane Bristol BS16 1QY UK

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/events/boat-trip-with-cream-tea-3:
This is a great way to see some amazing Bristol sights and get to know your peers more.
This tour gives you a chance to explore Bristol’s iconic graffiti art and vibrant creative culture, while enjoying a delicious cream tea on the boat.
Meet us at the Bristol Packet Watershed Pontoon at 17:45 (boat will depart at 18:00).
Please note that the event ticket is non-refundable , unless the event gets cancelled, so it is important to arrive promptly .
Bristol Packet Watershed Pontoon Bristol Harbour Canon's Road Bristol BS1 5TX UK

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/life/campus-and-facilities/frenchay-campus/frenchay-campus-map:
Explore our Frenchay Campus and find your way around.
Download a map of Frenchay Campus.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/life/health-and-wellbeing/staying-safe-on-and-off-campus/safeguarding:
We are committed to:
To share a serious concern, please visit wellbeing, emergency and crisis support .
Anyone can access this support.
You can share concerns about:
Our online tool has been developed for UWE Bristol students to get help if you've experienced something on campus or on university business that makes you feel upset or uncomfortable.
With Report and Support, you can choose to speak with one of our trained advisers so they can discretely investigate incidents, or you can report issues anonymously.
The safeguarding policy covers under 18s and vulnerable adults, welfare concerns, the Prevent Duty and safeguarding people from being drawn into terrorism.
Government legislation has placed a statutory duty on Higher Education institutions to have “due regard to the need to prevent people from being drawn into terrorism”.
The legislation, known as the Prevent Duty , applies to all kinds of extremism related to any ideology.
The objective is to safeguard individuals from being radicalised and drawn into terrorism.
If you have any concerns that a member of the University community may be vulnerable to radicalisation or that extremist organisations are operating on UWE Bristol campuses, please call the UWE Bristol Serious Concerns Line.
Find out from ACT Early about safeguarding and supporting people who are vulnerable to radicalisation.
You can find out about safeguarding and reporting a student welfare concern on the staff intranet (login required).
Support and information around drugs including alcohol.
Information and support around sexual health.
We want to create an inclusive campus where antisocial attitudes and behaviours are challenged.
If a situation doesn't feel right, Speak Up.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/courses/clearing/apply-online:
If you have your exam results, you can apply for your chosen course in Clearing using our online form.
If you're a Home (UK) applicant, you can apply for a full-time Clearing course online.
Before applying you must have all of the relevant exam results, including required GCSEs.
View Clearing courses
Some courses have additional selection criteria, so check the entry section on the course page carefully.
If we offer you a place, you must accept it within 7 days by selecting UWE Bristol and your course as your Clearing Choice in your UCAS Hub .
After Friday 8 August you will not be able to add a Clearing choice until 13:00 on Thursday 14 August.
International students can also apply through one of our agents or representatives in your country or you can email us at international@uwe.ac.uk .
Find your country representative
If your course is available to study part-time and has places available in Clearing , email admissions@uwe.ac.uk and we will send you a link to the application form.
If you have any questions, contact our Applicant Experience Team:
For opening times visit Clearing enquiries .
Find out what accommodation options are available when applying through Clearing.
Find out what to do on results day, including calling universities and accepting an offer.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/courses/clearing/contact-us:
Our friendly Admissions team are on hand to answer your questions about Clearing and to discuss your options.
Opening hours:
If you already have all your results, you can apply to us through Clearing now using our online application form.
You can email the Admissions Team at admissions@uwe.ac.uk .
There a few things you can do ahead of results day to prepare yourself if you think that you may have to apply to university through Clearing.
Find out what Clearing is and find why it could be the right option for your young person.
Find key dates and deadlines for Clearing 2025.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/life/accommodation/accommodation-guarantee:
We offer guaranteed accommodation if you are a full time, foundation or first year student applying for accommodation for the first time and you submit your application by the deadline.
Step by step guide to securing accommodation
When and how to apply for our UWE Bristol accommodation including information about our accommodation guarantee, how to pay, contract information and what happens after you apply.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/courses/clearing/clearing-advice:
Results day is on Thursday 14 August 2025.
Find out how to prepare if you think you may need to use Clearing on results day.
Our Admissions staff share their top tips on getting ready for Clearing.
Find out all about the Clearing process as this will help you work out the best route to take on results day itself.
You’ll be eligible for Clearing if you fit into any of the following categories.
You:
Think about where you’re at now compared to when you made your original choices — are your priorities and ambitions still the same or have they changed?
This may affect your decisions on what and where you study in September.
Continue to research universities and think about what is most important to you.
Maybe it's location, the subject or the facilities.
Make some notes of questions you’d like to ask about the course or university.
You can explore the courses we have on offer and what undergraduate study at UWE Bristol is like.
Please be aware that not all courses are available in Clearing.
Consider writing up a Clearing shortlist before results day if you think you might want to change university or course.
Remember, you’ll be studying a subject for three or more years so it needs to interest you if you’re going to succeed in it.
Don’t just pick a course because there are spaces.
Visit our social media channels and The Students' Union at UWE to find out what current students are saying about UWE Bristol.
As well as your original course preferences, it’s worth researching courses you may not have considered before.
Something a bit different could take your career in a whole new direction.
Courses with integrated foundation years can be more accessible so are worth considering too.
Our friendly Admissions team is available if you have questions about Clearing .
"I am absolutely loving my course and have no regrets in the slightest about applying through Clearing.
The structure of my course is so much better suited to my learning style, and the level of support I have received as a disabled student has been incredible."
Amy BSc(Hons) Forensic Science
Contact us to discuss your Clearing options.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/courses/clearing/how-clearing-works-on-results-day:
When you receive your grades, log on to UCAS Hub to find out whether your university place is confirmed.
Then select the option that matches your situation and follow the relevant step-by-step guide.
Don’t worry.
You can now apply for a course at UWE Bristol through Clearing.
Remember that courses can fill up quickly in Clearing so it’s good to consider a few options and call us as soon as you can.
We will publish a list of courses with vacancies available in Clearing on A-level results day.
Our Admissions team can answer your questions and help you to apply.
Make sure you have all of these in front of you before you call:
We may ask you to provide a digital portfolio showing examples of your work to help us assess your application.
We'll give you guidance about how to submit your portfolio when you apply through Clearing.
We will ask applicants for these courses to attend an interview.
Be prepared to be flexible as interview dates can be limited and you may be asked to attend at short notice.
We may still offer you a place on your selected course if you’ve only just missed the required tariff points (or any other offer requirements) for your firm and/or insurance choice.
If we offer you a place on a different course than the one you applied for, go to UCAS Hub to:
You have 5 days to respond after you have heard from both your firm and insurance options.
Declining all your offers releases you back into Clearing, so you are able to explore and apply for Clearing courses.
Places fill up very quickly during Clearing so it is best to wait until you have an offer on a new course before declining your current offer.
Call us  +44 (0)117 32 83333
If you achieve the grades you need, Clearing can be an opportunity to change your mind and apply somewhere new.
Select the ‘Decline my place’ button.
This will release you into Clearing and you will lose the offers you are currently holding.
You can now apply through Clearing
Places fill up very quickly during Clearing.
Wait until you have an offer on a new course before declining your place.
Clearing is a fast-moving process so do your research and call universities with courses that interest you.
Our Admissions team can answer your questions and help you to apply.
If you achieved the required grades to meet your firm or insurance choice, then you’ve got a university place.
Congratulations!
Your offer will change from ‘conditional’ to ‘unconditional’ on UCAS Hub and soon after results day, you’ll receive confirmation from UCAS and your chosen university confirming your place and advising on any next steps.
Now that you’ve got your results, you may decide you want to go to university this September.
If you haven’t already applied via UCAS this year, you can apply now through Clearing.
Courses can fill up quickly in Clearing, so consider a few options and call us as soon as you can.
Make sure you have all of these in front of you before you call
We will ask for your exam results.
We talk through the courses available to you and why you want to study here.
If you meet the requirements for your selected course, we will make you an offer.
If we make you an offer, we send you a confirmation email within 15 minutes.
The email will include a deadline by which you need to accept the offer.
If you don’t receive the email within 15 minutes, check your spam folder.
If we make you an offer, you will then need to contact UCAS to submit an application and add us as your Clearing choice.
"Once I was on the course, I felt no different from anyone else.
Clearing doesn’t limit your opportunities.
It’s just another way to get to where you want to be.
If I’d stuck with the original course, I think my career would have been more limited.
Sachin BEng Hons) Electronic Engineering graduate.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/courses/clearing/clearing-accommodation-options:
How to find accommodation when you've applied through Clearing.
Choosing where to live at university is a big decision – especially if it's your first time away from home.
We're here to support you through the process.
We offer guaranteed accommodation if you are a full time, foundation or first year student joining us through Clearing.
You will need to be applying for accommodation for the first time and submit your application by 20 August 2025.
If you are applying after this deadline, please continue to submit your application as accommodation may still be available.
If you decide you want to apply for UWE Bristol managed accommodation, you can apply for it on our Accommodation Portal.
You can create an account after we have formally confirmed your offer though UCAS.
Create your Accommodation Portal account by:
Log on to your account to:
Accommodation Services will contact you with information about any possible availability.
If a suitable room does become available, we will email you with the offer and further instructions.
To find out more about costs, amenities, locations and providers, explore UWE Bristol's accommodation options .
If you have problems logging in to UWE Welcome or for advice on filling in the forms or your options, email our accommodation team at accommodation@uwe.ac.uk or call +44 (0)117 32 83601 .
Please be aware that Accommodation Services will be extremely busy during this time.
They will respond to every enquiry – it may just take a bit longer than expected.
Thank you in advance for your patience.
Lots of our students choose to live in private rented accommodation, and this is a great alternative to university managed accommodation.
It gives you more options and is popular with students who want to live off campus.
Private accommodation search tips
Find providers we work with
The UWE Bristol accommodation team can give you general advice, such as information about different areas of Bristol, but can't advise on individual rentals.
For private accommodation queries, contact the private operator directly.
Find out more from the Students’ Union Advice Centre .
Information for students who are looking for private student accommodation or moving into private accommodation.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/courses/clearing/key-dates:
Monday 30 June 2025
UCAS applications made after this date are automatically entered into Clearing.
Friday 4 July 2025
This is the last date to apply with UCAS Extra.
Saturday 5 July 2025
Clearing opens for those who: already have results and aren't waiting on any pending qualifications don't hold any offers.
Clearing opens for those who:
Monday 14 July 2025
Join our webinar to learn how Clearing works, what to expect on results day and how to secure your place at UWE Bristol, with expert tips to help you feel confident and prepared.
Thursday 14 August 2025
You can use Clearing on results day if you've: not met your offer conditions and not secured your place changed your mind about what you want to study want to apply to university for the first time in the 2024/25 application cycle.
You can use Clearing on results day if you've:
August 2025
Get a feel for life at UWE Bristol by joining one of our campus tours.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/courses/clearing/parents-and-supporters-clearing-guide:
Find out what Clearing is and why it could be the right option for your young person.
Clearing is a way to apply for a university place if your child:
Find out more about Clearing
The numbers of people using Clearing has risen in recent years and it's now increasingly viewed as a standard route to university.
Many courses will still be available during Clearing and young people are often making a proactive decision to apply in this way.
If your child:
Getting an understanding of the Clearing process will help you provide the support and advice your child needs to navigate it successfully.
Read our Clearing preparation advice
UCAS also have a helpful parents guide to clearing .
Encourage your child to ask other students about their experiences.
They can do this online and it's a great way to get more personal insights on what it's like to live and study with us.
Ask a student your questions
They don't need to wait until results day to apply through Clearing if they already have their results.
We consider applications and make offers from 5 July, when Clearing opens.
Your child can contact us to discuss their options.
You and your child can get a feel for life on campus and take a look at the spaces they could be living and studying in on a virtual tour .
Encourage them to make notes of the information they are likely to need when they call the Clearing phone line.
Having personal details and exam grades to hand is essential.
A few notes on why they are interested in the course and a question about the university can also be handy prompts.
Their UCAS personal statement can be useful to highlight key skills and strengths.
Encourage your son or daughter to read up about preparing to start university and following our social channels will give you both a feel for what life at UWE Bristol is like.
Results day can feel intense and overwhelming but rest assured that the support network here will help your son or daughter make the transition and become a thriving member of our  student community.
With robust and comprehensive mental health and wellbeing services , your child will feel safe and supported at UWE Bristol.
View undergraduate courses available through Clearing at UWE Bristol for 2025/26 entry.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/life/campus-and-facilities/campus-tours/guided-tours:
If you’re interested in undergraduate or postgraduate study at one of our campuses, a guided tour will give you a great insight into university life and what it’s like to study here.
Tours last approximately 45 minutes and you’ll be guided by one of our Student Ambassadors.
They’ll be there to show you around and answer any questions you may have.
The tours will cover the whole campus.
They’re not subject specific and academic staff will not be available to answer questions about specific courses, but our Student Ambassadors will do their best to show you relevant facilities where possible.
Our next campus tours will take place on Friday 5 December 2025.
Please come back to this page to book your place when registrations open in mid-September.
Once you’ve booked your campus tour, we’ll send you a confirmation email and we’ll then send you a reminder with all the details you’ll need closer to the time of your tour.
We will not be able to offer viewing of on campus accommodation sites as students are living in all of our halls of residence.
Please refer to our accommodation information to explore your options, including virtual tours of the inside of our rooms.
You’ll receive directions to the University and arrival point nearer the time.
Please familiarise yourself with our latest information about the best ways to travel to the University .
If you're planning to travel by car, please note Bristol City Council has introduced a Clean Air Zone in the city.
To view a map of the Clean Air Zone and to find out if your vehicle will be charged visit the Council’s Clean Air Zone website .
If you have any questions about our guided tours, please contact our Events Team at open@uwe.ac.uk or +44 (0)117 328 2162 .
Find course facilities by subject.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/courses/applying/undergraduate-applications:
Ready to make the right choice?
Here's everything you'll need to help you.
From how to apply for your chosen course, through to what happens in the UCAS process, it's all covered.
Choosing the right university for you is a big decision and there’s a lot to think about.
So our experts have put together shortcuts, must-knows and top tips to help you feel really confident in your choice.
Got a question about the application process?
We'll walk you through it step-by-step, and provide practical info about changing your course or deferring your entry.
We accept a wide range of qualifications and experience at UWE Bristol.
Find out what we're looking for in a UWE Bristol student.
What are UCAS Tariff points?
How are they used?
And – most importantly – how many points are your qualifications worth?
This is the place to find out…
Everyone is different.
We look to understand your individual circumstances.
Find out what is a contextual offer, who's eligible and the application process for this.
Wondering how the offers process works, or what happens on exam results day?
It's all covered here.
You’ve chosen your course.
Now you just need to secure that place.
Here’s everything you need to know about our selection processes, from interview prep to portfolios.
Your ambitions are about to get real.
Make sure you don’t miss a step – check out our month-by-month guide to your application journey.
If you’ve decided to apply to university after the January UCAS deadline has passed, you’re not alone, and it’s not too late.
Here are all the options explained:
Make an application
UCAS Extra
Smashed it out the park and exceeded your predicted grades?
Didn't do quite as well as you hoped?
Clearing is your chance to apply once you have your results — here's everything you need to know.
Clearing
"When choosing a university, it is important to consider things like the location, standard of teaching and facilities.
I also wanted a university with a good academic and social balance where students are encouraged to be part of the full university experience."
Sassor BSc(Hons) Information Technology Management for Business
Everything you need to know about undergraduate study at UWE Bristol, including courses, accommodation, fees and funding, employability and life at UWE Bristol.
Find out more about the range of Open Days we have at UWE Bristol, including tours, details of upcoming applicant events and travel information.
You don't need to visit us in person to explore our facilities and campuses.
Take a personalised virtual tour and experience what a typical day could look like.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/courses/open-days/undergraduate-open-events:
Prefer to do things digitally?
You can explore UWE Bristol from your own home at our Virtual Open Day.
Join our session on preparing for higher education during Open Day.
Ask your child to book your spot when they register.
If you're joining us for our June Open Day, don't miss the exclusive restaurant discounts available across Bristol on the day.
Check out the savings available on train and bus tickets to our Open Days.
Don't miss these exclusive Open Day offers at restaurants and accommodation across Bristol.
Take a personalised virtual tour and experience what a typical day at UWE Bristol could look like for you.
Got a question about studying with us?
Ask a current student.
You can explore our campuses with a choice of guided, self-guided tours and virtual tours.
If you're holding an offer to study at UWE Bristol, we'll invite you to attend an Offer Holder event.
Everything you need to know about undergraduate study at UWE Bristol including courses, accommodation, fees and funding, employability and life at UWE Bristol.
Bristol is a city buzzing with potential.
A thriving hub of social and cultural activity, and consistently named as one of the best cities to live, work and study in the UK.
Find out what actions to take to prepare you for applying to university and decide if UWE Bristol is right for you.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/courses/open-days/postgraduate-open-events:
Explore upcoming events and see what to expect.
We're excited to offer a range of course webinars and an in-person Open Day.
Find the sessions that interest you most.
Sat 06 September 2025, 12:00
A postgraduate online course webinar is your chance to see what's waiting for you at UWE Bristol from the comfort of your own home.
Now you’ve attended a Postgraduate Open Day, it’s time to discover your next steps.
There are lots of ways to discover what’s on offer at UWE Bristol.
Got a course-specific question?
Request an informal one-to-one chat with the lecturer from the course you’re interested in.
Committing to postgrad study isn’t easy, but it pays off.
See how we support our students to achieve their potential.
From practical careers advice and mentoring to CV writing workshops.
We’re here to help you reach your goals.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/events/ug-open-day-registration:
Register your place at our Undergraduate Open Day this autumn.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/courses/open-days/what-to-expect-on-campus:
You will need to register in advance to attend an on campus Open Day .
View upcoming Open events
Before booking your talks and sessions, check where your course is based: Frenchay Campus , Glenside Campus or City Campus .
As well as course talks - or drop-ins for postgraduates - we run sessions where you can find out about accommodation, admissions, careers advice, disability support and student finance.
Prioritise the subject sessions you want to attend first, then fit student support sessions and campus tours around them.
View your talk and session details and locations on your ticket.
If you need any help booking onto our events, please contact us at open@uwe.ac.uk or +44 (0)117 32 82162 .
Think about what you'd like to ask our academics, student ambassadors and services staff on the day.
Topics could include:
Check your Open Day ticket and session booking information for location and sign-in points.
We have three main campuses in Bristol Frenchay Campus , Glenside Campus and City Campus , as well as Bristol Zoo Project.
Find out more about Open Day travel and parking
Your ticket will show your sign-in point and entry time.
Arrive early if you can as there’s lots to see and do at an Open Day.
Open Days run:
When you arrive, make your way to the sign-in points — look out for the blue signs with directions.
Staff and student ambassadors wearing blue polo shirts can help direct you and give you a printed programme and campus map.
Our Open Days are relaxed, so feel free to dress casually.
Wear comfortable shoes and bring an umbrella just in case.
Dogs are not allowed inside University buildings unless they are assistance or guide dogs.
More about accessibility for Open events
Find information about travel discounts for our on-campus Open Days.
Start by attending a Welcome Talk on one of our three campuses.
Then go to the course talks and student support sessions you’ve booked.
These offer a great opportunity to talk to tutors and support staff face-to-face and ask all of your questions.
Most courses and student services run drop-in sessions, including accommodation, admissions, careers, disability support and student finance.
Speak to tutors and support staff on a one-to-one basis.
Find the details and location of your talks and sessions on your programme/ticket.
Discover where our students live by viewing our student accommodation and show flats.
We offer a choice of accommodation on and off campus to fit your lifestyle and needs.
You can take a tour around on-campus accommodation at Frenchay Campus and Glenside Campus or our city centre accommodation while you’re here — there’s no need to book.
Chat to our Accommodation team and ask any questions you have about our accommodation options.
Campus tours are a good opportunity to explore our campuses.
Our guided campus tours are led by a student ambassador and there's no need to book.
While you're on campus, chat to our student ambassadors in blue polo shirts — no-one knows a university better than its students.
There are social spaces, cafés, restaurants and shops and bars at each campus, so you’ll have plenty of opportunity to refuel.
It's worth knowing:
Find out more about campus facilities
At the end of your Open Day, travel into the city centre to discover all Bristol has to offer and why this is a great city to live and study.
Before you arrive, take a virtual tour of some of Bristol's highlights to get a taste of what to expect.
Take a virtual tour of Bristol
If you're planning to explore beyond campus and experience a taste of Bristol, take a look at the range of exclusive discounts available during Open Day.
Restaurant discounts
If you have any questions about our Open Days, please contact our Open Days Team.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/courses/open-days/travel-and-parking:
To find out which campus you should visit, please first check the course you're interested in studying.
Then you'll be able to view campus-specific travel information depending on the course you're interested in.
The campus you visit for an Open Day depends on the course you're interested in.
Please use our course search to find out on which campus your course is taught.
Bristol Parkway is the nearest station to Frenchay Campus.
There are free shuttle buses to pick you up and drop you at our Frenchay Campus.
Shuttle buses pick up at Bristol Parkway from 08:00–13:00.
Drop off will be all day until 16:15.
Bristol Temple Meads will also have shuttle buses running to Frenchay Campus from 08:00 with the last return at 16:00.
After you've registered, we'll email you in the days leading up to the Open Day with information about which campus entrance to use – North or East.
You can also check session information on your tickets for campus and sign-in information.
Parking is free on Open Days — you do not need a permit or pay and display ticket.
If you need accessible parking, please email open@uwe.ac.uk or call us +44 (0)117 32 82162 and we'll take care of this for you.
If you’re coming by bus, please check TravelWest for timetables and routes.
For more information about bus services to our campuses, please visit Getting to and from UWE Bristol campuses .
National Express , Megabus and Flixbus all serve Frenchay Campus.
We've teamed up with transport providers to offer discounted bus, coach and train travel to your Open Day.
Want to feel prepared?
Download our handy Frenchay Campus Open Day map (PDF) .
It shows your sign-in point and will help you find your way around on the day.
The campus you visit for Open Day depends on the course you're interested in.
Bristol Parkway is the nearest train station to Glenside.
There are free shuttle buses to pick you up and drop you at our Glenside Campus from 08:00–13:00 and return all day until 16:00.
Please use the postcode UWE Glenside BS16 1DD.
Parking is free on our Open Days and our friendly staff will be there to guide you on the day.
If you need accessible parking, please email open@uwe.ac.uk or call us on +44 (0)117 32 82162 and we'll take care of this for you.
Download our handy Glenside Campus Open Day map (PDF) .
Bristol Temple Meads is the nearest train station to all City Campus sites.
There are free shuttle buses to take you to our Bower Ashton Campus, where all courses will begin on the day.
Shuttle buses will run every 30 minutes between 08:30–13:00.
Returning from Bower Ashton from 12:00 until 16:30 every 30 minutes.
Parking is available at the Long Ashton Park and Ride.
Please use the postcode BS3 2HB.
There are free shuttle buses to take you to and from campus, running every 15 minutes from 08:30 until 17:00.
Blue Badge parking is available at Bower Ashton Campus.
Please contact us at Open@uwe.ac.uk .
There'll also be free shuttle buses from Bower Ashton Campus to our city centre student accommodation.
You'll receive a timetable on the day.
Download our handy City Campus Open Day map (PDF) .
Our Integrated Wildlife Conservation FdSc/BSc(Hons) course is taught at Bristol Zoo Project .
Bristol Parkway is the nearest train station to the Zoo.
Please speak to one of our UWE Bristol marshals at the station when you arrive.
They’ll order you a free taxi to the Zoo.
After the event at the Zoo, we’ll give you a lift back to Frenchay Campus at 13:00 approximately, so you’ll have the chance to explore our main campus.
From Frenchay Campus you can return to Parkway station anytime on our all-day shuttle bus.
Please use postcode BS10 7TP.
There’s a free car park at Bristol Zoo Project.
Parking is limited and we cannot guarantee spaces will be available.
There’s also limited on-street parking nearby.
We’ve teamed up with Great Western Railway (GWR) and National Express to offer discounted travel to your Open Day — and we are giving away free tickets for First Bus travel within the Bristol Zone.
You’ll get a discount of 20% if you travel to our Open Day with a GWR train service.
Combine this offer with your Railcard and get a discount of over 50%.
Book your train ticket
We offer a limited number of free bus tickets for travelling to or from your Open Day.
Just email us to request a code.
We're giving codes away on a first come, first served basis, so be quick.
This offer applies to travel within the First Bus Bristol zone .
You won't need a free bus ticket for travel from Bristol Parkway or Bristol Temple Meads.
There will be free shuttle buses from these rail stations to the Open Day.
Request a code
You’ll get a discount of 30% if you travel to your Open Day with National Express.
You can travel from any location to either Bristol Bus and Coach Station in the city centre or UWE Bristol Frenchay Campus.
To book your ticket go to the National Express website and use code UWE30.
Book your coach ticket
Terms and conditions:

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/courses/open-days/accessibility:
Discover what we’re doing to make Open Events accessible to all.
Here you’ll discover what we’re doing to make sure we meet everyone’s needs to attend our Open Events.
All rooms in the Student Village and Purdown View are accessible to wheelchair users.
If you’d like to view our accessible rooms while visiting on an Open Day there, please ask a member of staff in the Accommodation Zone.
Glenside Campus accommodation is accessible to wheelchair users.
There isn’t a lift so only ground floor rooms are accessible.
Phoenix Court and Marketgate are accessible for wheelchair users as both sites have a ramp and lifts available.
The bus taking visitors to Phoenix Court and Marketgate has wheelchair access.
If you wish to view an accessible room please email Accommodation Services at accommodation@uwe.ac.uk so the team can arrange a personalised tour for you.
Please note that our modified accessible rooms are all on Frenchay Campus.
We have accessible parking available at all UWE Bristol sites.
You’ll just need to select this on the registration form when you book, then we’ll contact you to confirm where you can park.
Assistance dogs are welcome on campus and when visiting accommodation, however there may be some restricted areas such as technical teaching spaces where this is assessed on a case-by-case basis.
If you need a British Sign Language qualified interpreter or an audio loop to support you, please contact us at least a week before to discuss your needs and make any arrangements in time.
Please get in touch before the Open Event so we can discuss your needs and make the required arrangements in time.
To find out how we can support you while studying with us, please speak to our experts in the Information and Advice Zone at the open event.
If you’d like to familiarise yourself with the campus ahead of your visit, you can view our campus maps for Frenchay , Glenside and Bower Ashton (City Campus) .
You can also explore our photo gallery and take a Virtual Tour .
The campus is accessible in terms of automatic doors, level access to most buildings, lifts, plus our student ambassadors can help you find your way around and show you to the nearest lift, for example.
Our internal wayfinding app is a useful tool to help find your way around campus.
Exploring our campuses can involve a lot of time on your feet, but there's plenty of seating around so you can take a break whenever you want to.
You'll find seating in all main areas near the refreshments.
OneZone in E block also has plenty of seating indoors and on the terrace outside and is located near the Information and Advice Zone and Accommodation Zone.
There’s lots of seating available in The Hub and benches outside.
The Information and Advice Zone is centrally located and next to a café, where this is lots of seating available.
You’ll also find many benches in outdoor areas on each campus.
You're allowed to select up to two guests to bring along on the booking form, but if you need to bring additional carers or supporter workers then you're welcome to do so, and do not need to notify us.
You're very welcome to bring children along to the Open Events too, in addition to your two guests.
We have baby changing facilities available and lifts for pushchair access.
If you require any more information or have any questions, please email our Open Events team at open@uwe.ac.uk or call +44 (0)117 32 82162 .

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/events/undergraduate-virtual-open-day-5:
Open Days
If you can't get to one of our On Campus Open Days or prefer to do things digitally, register for our upcoming Virtual Open Day.
A Virtual Open Day is a great opportunity for you to explore the University from your own home and see if UWE Bristol is right for you.
Find out more about Virtual Open Days

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/courses/open-days/undergraduate-open-events/what-to-expect-virtual:
If you can’t get to one of our Open Days on campus or you prefer to do things digitally, our Virtual Open Day will help you explore UWE Bristol from the comfort of your own home.
Find everything you need to know about our courses, facilities, accommodation and student life and see if UWE Bristol is the right university for you.
"I had a positive experience at my Virtual Open Day for UWE Bristol.
All the staff were helpful, and I left the event confident I’d be supported at UWE Bristol, and that the course I chose was right for me."
Beth BSc(Hons) Physiotherapy
Visit our Open Day page to view upcoming events and pick the one that's most relevant to you.
Follow the steps to book your place on our Virtual Open Day.
You can book your course talks and support services sessions when you register for your Open Day.
Once you've registered, you’ll receive an email with your ticket, which shows your timetable for the day, based on the sessions you’ve chosen.
Save the email containing your e-ticket as you can use it to change or add sessions later if necessary.
This means you don’t have to book all your sessions straight away.
You can also use this email to access your sessions on the day, although we'll also send you reminders.
On the day, you'll be able to access your course talk or support services session by clicking the link in your ticket.
You can join the event ten minutes before it is due to start.
When joining the event, select ‘join as a guest’.
If you select ‘sign in’, you’ll either not be able to join the event or your name and email address may be visible to other attendees.
Once you've joined, you’ll be prompted to enter a name.
Enter your first name only, as this information will be visible to other attendees.
Support services sessions may be recorded and published on UWE Bristol’s YouTube channel for marketing purposes.
Only our presenters will be identifiable on the published recordings.
Q&A sessions will not be published.
If you have any questions about our Open Days, please contact our Open Days Team:

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/courses/open-days/next-steps:
Once you've chosen your course, it's time to make it happen.
Here's what to do next.
Let us walk you through the process of applying to UWE Bristol using our application guide.
Make sure you don't miss a step – check out our month-by-month guide to your application journey.
Whether you plan to stay at home, find private accommodation, or want to stay on campus – we offer a range of options to suit your needs.
Money shouldn’t be a barrier to ambition, and that’s why we’re here to help you understand the financial side of student life.
From 24/7 mental health support to guidance with your studies and finding job opportunities, we'll be here to give you the support and advice you need to thrive.
How you think determines how you feel, and what you can achieve.
That's why it's important that you feel good about yourself.
But this isn't always easy – we all have good and bad days.
At UWE Bristol, we provide the tools you need to be confident, happy and successful in life.
Whether it's a listening ear, support for a disability, accessing medical care or mental health support, we've got you covered.
Health and wellbeing
We understand the highs and low of university life and are here to ensure you get the most out of your experience.
From help with study and English language skills to our student experience coaches and academic support programme.
You can also take part in our Peer Assisted Learning scheme (PAL) – where more experienced students can help students who are new to the University, with anything from studying tips to how to stress less.
Study support
From practical career advice and mentoring, to CV writing workshops and tools that help you find out where your talents lie – we're here to help you bag your dream job.
No matter what stage you're at in your careers journey, our Student Career Coaches and Career Advisers are on hand to talk through your options and help you find work experience and job opportunities that are right for you.
Career development
Feeling inspired after an Open Day or like to learn more about the campus facilities, university life and Bristol?
Missed some facilities at your Open Day, or want another look around our campuses?
Take a personalised virtual tour to explore the areas that are important to you, from the comfort of your own home.
Bristol's famous for its unique arts and culture scene.
You'll find lots of things to keep you busy, whether you're into shopping, music and clubbing, art, theatre, history or dining.
Discover how much you can get involved with at UWE Bristol.
Meet like-minded people at The Students' Union (SU) through sports, societies and activities like volunteering and faith and culture groups.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/courses/find-a-course:
Explore the full breadth of courses we offer across all levels of study.
View a full A-Z of all of our courses.
View our A-Z of foundation courses starting in September 2025.
View our A-Z of undergraduate courses starting in September 2025.
View courses available in Clearing 2025.
View our A-Z of postgraduate courses starting September 2025.
View our A-Z list of higher and degree apprenticeships.
View our A-Z of postgraduate courses starting January 2025.
View our PhD and postgraduate research study opportunities.
Explore degree courses at UWE Bristol delivered entirely through online learning and via distance learning.
View our A-Z of continuing professional development courses.
Visit the Kaplan International College at UWE Bristol website.
View our A-Z of part-time courses.
UWE Bristol-awarded degrees with partner institutions around the world.
View our A-Z of UWE Bristol-awarded degrees run by our local study partners.
View our list of the postgraduate courses you can study, regardless of the subject of your first degree.

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/life/greener-future:
Sustainability is at the heart of everything we do at UWE Bristol.
From building the UK’s first low carbon student accommodation, to providing allotment space for our students to grow their own veg, and our researchers getting alternative protein on the menu in schools – we are working together towards a greener future.
And our campus developments are putting us on track to be a carbon neutral university by 2030.
There’s nothing more personal than the clothes you’re wearing.
But how sustainable are they?
See how our fashion textile students and staff are taking on fast fashion.
Read more about the staff who are making a difference
We have all seen shocking images of food waste pouring out of rubbish trucks.
It feels uncomfortable seeing such large quantities of food being thrown away in a world where famine is still a reality.
Food production demands huge resources and has a massive impact on the environment.
We asked Associate Professor Verity Jones what we can do to reduce food waste and the impact our food choices have on the environment.
The statistics are alarming.
Verity explains "Half of the habitable land on the planet is used for farming and agriculture.
We literally don’t have enough cropland to feed a growing population."  Though there is significant interest in plant-based diets in the UK; globally the picture is quite different with meat consumption set to increase by 76% by 2050.
"We can’t ignore the impact this is having and, unfortunately, meat production is responsible for significant greenhouse gas emissions and food related deforestation."
So are insects really a viable alternative to more traditional proteins like meat?
Verity is proving through her research with the Pembrokeshire based ‘Bug Farm’ that they most definitely are.
"Insects are high in protein, vitamins and minerals and they emit fewer greenhouse gases.
They also need less space and less water."
She explains "In other parts of the world insects have been a staple source of protein for hundreds of years.
However, the continued growth in demand for cows and chickens for food is having a huge impact.
More land is cleared to make way for more livestock.
Local habitats and their wealth of biodiversity are then threatened."
When it comes to bugs, Verity is doing more than just research in this area.
She’s working with the ‘Bug farm’ to get edible insects on the menu in schools.
"We’ve been working with Pembrokeshire County Council and are hoping to see insect protein on the menus soon.
The feedback from young people has been incredibly positive.
They want tasty, healthy and filling food to get them through their day and are keen to choose sustainable options.
We’re proving that different types of food and an open approach to what we eat can be incredibly valuable to people and planet.
Insects may look gross to many but can be added to foods as powders for a sustainable power boost."
Verity explains that progress is being made in many areas of food production and we have much to feel optimistic about "New technology and innovation mean that there are great opportunities to reduce food waste during the production cycle.
Strawberries are a great example.
By shifting growth from the ground to table top, farmers are seeing less damaged fruit and can use land that is closer to storage, packing and distribution facilities – all reducing the estimated 10,000 tonnes of strawberries that are wasted each year."
It doesn’t have to be anything radical.
If we all do a little bit it can make a massive difference.
As the restrictions of the pandemic ease, a festival filled summer is something we’ve all been longing for.
As life gets back to normal and we pack away the tents, we ask what the environmental impact of festivals is.
We caught up with Briony and Clare, two of our Events Management academics with a special interest in sustainability.
The rate of global warming triggered the UN to issue a ‘code red’ for humanity in 2021.
This means that we need to reduce carbon emissions in order to slow the impact of global warming.
Festivals are resource intensive and contribute to these carbon emissions.
Yet, as Clare explains: "events need particular climactic conditions.
For example, regattas need the right tidal conditions, balloons can only fly in calm skies and winter sports events can only go ahead with snow.’ She warns ‘we are starting to see the effects of climate change on the events industry with festivals being cancelled because of adverse weather conditions and water shortages."
Briony stresses that "it’s not just about the way that we behave at events but also what we’re doing to protect the very land that these events are held on.
Festivals are at risk of being cancelled if we don’t protect the land that they’re held on."
Festivals are a great opportunity to try things out.
Clare describes attendees as "feeling free to experiment with identities, perspectives and behaviours" and Briony describes the unique festival environment as "a great space to trial sustainability interventions." They are both researching how event organisers can make events more sustainable.
Clare is doing research to help guide organisers of Boomtown Fair.
‘Boomtown’ is a faux city where actors play characters and engage festival goers in play in different ‘districts’ of the city.
In 2019, the festival used this alternate reality game to communicate the urgency of the climate crisis to festivalgoers.
Participants joined an Extinction Rebellion takeover of the capitalist ‘district’ of Boomtown, similar to the real-world takeover of Oxford Circus.
Afterwards almost 70% of survey respondents said that they would be more likely to join a real-life environmental protest.
"It’s really important data showing that Boomtown Fair’s efforts to encourage festivalgoers’ environmental intentions are impactful".
Briony is passionate about bringing a sustainability message to all elements of her teaching.
"I lead on the undergraduate Business and Events Management course.
We initially focus on concepts like herd behaviour and escapism that have an impact on festival sustainability.
In the second year, we move on to look at practical tools, such as carbon footprint calculators and offsetting.
By the final year, students run their own events, where sustainability is an important aspect that needs to be considered and evaluated.
By the time our students graduate, I know that they’re going into the industry with a really solid understanding of the importance of sustainability."
Fast fashion is a buzz word that we’re all hearing more frequently, whether it’s in the news, on our social feeds or in relation to advertising on the much famed ‘Love Island’.
But what exactly does the term mean?
We caught up with Associate Professor Verity Jones who shed some light on what the phrase really means and shared some shocking statistics revealing the impact the industry is having on the environment.
Verity explains “Fast fashion is essentially inexpensive clothing that is mass produced by retailers quickly and in response to the latest trends.
This means that consumers can snap up affordable styles soon after they have seen them on celebrities and cat walks.
The problem is that they don’t get worn for long before they are discarded in favour of the next trend".
She describes the UK as being at "an epicentre of fast fashion in Europe – buying and discarding far more than many of our European neighbours."  This is fuelling a cycle of overproduction and overconsumption that’s having a direct impact on the environment.
In the UK alone 13 million items of clothing end up in landfill every year.
The fashion industry is responsible for 8% of global greenhouse gas emissions and consumes more energy than the aviation and shipping industries combined.
It’s production techniques also demand vast quantities of water which end up back in our waterways polluted by dyes and chemicals.
Then there is the social and humanitarian cost – pay is notoriously low for garment workers and working conditions are often dangerous.
The fast fashion industry lacks transparency and it’s difficult to determine whether child or slave labour has been involved in production processes.
These statistics make for alarming reading but Verity stresses that "we need to also look for the good news stories and focus on the things that we can feel positive and optimistic about."
The work that Verity is doing at UWE Bristol is part of making that change.
Through her teaching and research she is tackling issues around environmental and social injustice.
She explains that this means ‘"looking at the impact our actions have on planet and people and exploring what we can do to change things for the better."
One example of this is the free online course ‘Who Made My Clothes?’ that Verity delivers.
It has attracted over 70,000 learners to date.
"This really shows that people are interested in the issues around fast fashion and want to learn more about how they can make positive changes."
Verity’s background is in teaching and she’s also passionate about making sure we do as much as we can to support and educate children.
She explains that "eco anxiety is a huge problem.
50% of children seen by counsellors and psychologists disclose it as a concern.
To tackle this head on we have worked with Friends of the Earth to develop supportive resources that parents can access from their website.
Verity’s top 3 tips for sustainable fashion:
Hear from student, Laura who explains why cycling is so beneficial and how UWE Bristol is making cycling an easy travel option for students.
"The single biggest thing we can all do to reduce our IT carbon footprint is to use renewable electricity from sources such as wind and solar.
UWE Bristol was ahead of the curve on this, installing 2,000 solar panels on site and going fully renewable in 2016."
Ian Brookes Senior lecturer
Ian is a Senior Lecturer in Sustainable IT.
After a career working in management consultancy, including several years in the fossil fuels industry, Ian made the switch to research and teaching.
The focus of his PhD is designing sustainable IT systems.
Guided by the UN Sustainable Development Goals, he now teaches students across the university about the importance of sustainability and equips them with the knowledge that they need to strive for a greener future.
The first group of students to study the Sustainable Business and Computing module graduated in 2021.
"It’s incredibly rewarding to know that I’ve contributed to their journey." Ian’s own PhD looks at how systems engineers can design more sustainability into the systems that they make.
He explains "autonomous vehicles are a good example of this, what can we do to make sure that the software and hardware components built into the design are as sustainable as possible?"

New sentences found on https://uwe.ac.uk/business/support-uwe-bristol:
From financial help to student mentoring, there are many ways to support UWE Bristol.
The UWE Bristol Fund supports students facing financial difficulties through vital grants.
It also works to fund community projects run by UWE staff and students.
Your gift will make a huge difference, enabling us to help more students, provide an excellent student experience, and fund pioneering research.
Support the UWE Bristol Fund
Our Equity Student Mentoring scheme connects businesses with UWE students from Global Majority backgrounds.
An invaluable experience for students, it gives your organisation the opportunity to share your experience and inspire the next generation of employees.