# Site: https://www.uws.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 494
# --------

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk:
Kick-start your career with an undergraduate degree from University of the West of Scotland.
Postgrad taught and research degrees will enable you to study at an advanced level, supported by expert academics.
UWS offers a range of career-focused Bachelor, Masters, and Doctoral research opportunities across six academic schools.
Application for our undergraduate and postgraduate courses opens in Aug each year and runs until course start date.
Discover our campuses in Ayr, Dumfries, Lanarkshire, Paisley & London
Find out more about your choice of accommodation on offer.
Our research centres, institutes, groups, advance research and knowledge to tackle the United Nations Global Goals.
UWS is Committed to The United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals
Find your place at our Autumn Open Days and Subject Showcases this September, October and November.
Explore how UWS will support you to take your next big step.
All you need to know about applying to study at UWS through Clearing 2025
Find out more
Attend our Open Days and information sessions to find out more about full-time or part-time degrees at UWS.
UWS Enrolment and Induction portal providing all you need to know about getting started at UWS in 2025.
As a UWS graduate, you'll be work-ready and feel prepared to contribute both locally and globally.
Your learning and teaching experience will be student-centred, personalised and distinctive - preparing you for a rewarding future.
Our cutting-edge courses are career-focused and will help you develop advanced knowledge and understanding in your chosen field.
Read our student case studies and watch our video to learn more about how our students found their place at UWS.
"The facilities are all brand new.
The labs have got great technology and it’s perfect for everything we have done.
Since starting, I have had access to a wide range of equipment.” - Anna
"My favourite thing about studying at UWS would be the amazing facilities.
On site, we have mannequins and a real-life hospital." - Lauren
"The best thing about UWS is that you’re not another number - there is a very strong community feel to the University.
And so much support available for students, especially mature students like me, f...
Going to university is about much more than getting a qualification - it’s an experience.
You'll enjoy an exciting social life, gain independence and we are here to support you along the way.
UWS is committed to the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDGs).
In the Times Higher Education (THE) Impact Rankings 2025, UWS has been ranked in the world’s top 300 universities for sustainable development.
And 26th in the world for impact on reducing inequalities (Sustainable Development Goal 10).
"We’re incredibly proud to have achieved this ranking.
As Scotland's leading university for widening participation, with the belief that education should be available to all, this achievement is testament to the hard work of each and every colleague in embedding that ethos.” Professor James Miller, Principal and Vice-Chancellor
More on Our UNSDG Success
90 percent of research at UWS was classed as world-leading, internationally excellent, or recognised internationally (REF2021).
Find out more about our academic staff and their globally relevant work.
Find valuable resources to help you fulfil your business needs.
UWS offers specialist expertise, top talent and high-quality equipment and facilities for commercial businesses, public services and the third sector.
Close
6 days ago
The welfare benefits system is failing those who suffer from Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder (PMDD), new research has found.
Tuesday 19-08-2025
A pioneering, community-led study at Ardrossan Castle has shown how thermal imaging technology could be used to protect Scotland’s heritage by detecting hidden moisture damage.
Thursday 07-08-2025
A new study will explore if Gaelic Medium Education (GME) gives school leavers in Scotland an advantage when it comes to their career is being carried out by researchers at UWS.
Wednesday 06-08-2025
Vital skills gaps in the health and social care sector can be supported by a new course from the University of the West of Scotland (UWS).
Wednesday 23-07-2025
Two UWS KTPs have been named as finalists in this year’s Innovate UK KTP Awards, recognising innovation and impact across UK academia and industry.
Ensuring newly Registered Nurses are prepared to tackle the increasingly complex care needs of the ageing population is behind a new research project at UWS.
Friday 12 September 2025
Online
This interdisciplinary conference organised by CMDCI London invites early career scholars, emerging academics, researchers, and students who conduct research around transnational identit(ies) and senses of belonging among diverse migrant’s groups to submit abstracts for our online conference on 12 September 2025.
Saturday 20 September 2025
Lanarkshire
Autumn Open Day 2025 - Lanarkshire Campus
Saturday 27 September 2025
Ayr
Autumn Open Day 2025 - Ayr Campus
Thursday 09 October 2025
Dumfries
Autumn Open Day 2025 - Dumfries Campus
Saturday 18 October 2025
Paisley
Autumn Open Day 2025 - Paisley Campus
Thursday 06 November 2025
Join us on Thursday November 6th from 4:00pm to 7:00pm at our vibrant Paisley campus.
This is your chance to explore our wide range of postgraduate programmes, meet our academics, tour our state-of-the-art facilities, and get all your questions answered.
University of the West of Scotland is a Registered Scottish Charity.
Charity number SC002520.
VAT Registration Number GB 263 824 940.
The University is recognised by the UK authorities as a “ recognised body ” which has been granted degree awarding powers.
© 2025 University of the West of Scotland
By using www.uws.ac.uk you agree to our Website Terms of Use and Cookie Policy .
We use cookies to offer you a better browsing experience, analyse site traffic and user behaviour.
Read about how we use cookies and how you can manage them on our Cookie Policy page .
The content of our Privacy Notice has recently been updated to reflect recent legal changes (the General Data Protection Regulation).

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search:
We welcome Scottish, UK and international students and consider all applicants on an individual basis.
If your qualifications are not listed here please see our academic requirements by country page, which gives the minimum entry requirements for a range of international qualifications.
ALL
A
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
I
J
K
L
M
N
O
P
Q
R
S
T
U
V
W
X
Y
Z
Please adjust your filter options to refine your search results
Reset search and try again.
{{result.Description}}
{{accreditation.AccreditationName}}
Funding available
Read more
Location
{{campus}} , {{location}}{{$last ?
'' : ', '}}
Study level
{{studyLevel}}{{$last ?
Showing results {{countStart}} - {{countEnd}} of {{totalResults}}

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/postgraduate-course-search:
FIND OUT MORE

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/current-students:
This is a dedicated section for new and current UWS students.
Here you'll find the information you need to help you in your studies and to succeed in your time at your UWS.
This webpage provides access to a range of information and support you may need to support your studies including what to do when you thiks things aren't going well and how to raise complaints.
Find out how UWS can support your health and wellbeing and help you with issues such as gender based and sexual violence to help you focus on your studies.
A list of all our services and links to further information on our website.
We have created a roadmap to help you successfully navigate your way through those first few weeks at UWS and help you settle in and succeed in your studies.
Thinking about finance and funding will be high on your agenda while at UWS, whether it’s making arrangements to pay for university accommodation or tuition fees, or looking for advice and guidance.
Graduations mark a significant moment, and at UWS we take pride in helping to make it an event to remember.
Support available to students and graduates looking to develop their career.
UWS Sport is the home to all Sport, fitness and Physical Activity at UWS.
Information about service disruptions and campus closures in the event of extreme weather.
Find out more about what to expect as a student in the new term at UWS.
At UWS, we're committed to ensuring that you get the most from your university experience, regardless of your personal circumstances or background.
There is a wide range of support available to ensure that you fulfil your potential, achieve your goals and enjoy your time at UWS.
The Counselling and Wellbeing Team are here to help you look after your mental and emotional wellbeing.
Whether you are currently going through a difficult period, wanting help finding wellbeing resources or simply seeking to get the best out of your time at UWS - we are here to support you.
The University also has a wide range of other student services teams.
These include Careers Service, Disability Team, Funding and Advice and International Student Advice.
You can find out more information about these services including contact details via the UWS Sharepoint site.
If you're experiencing difficulties that require emotional support, call the UWS student support line 24/7.
Your call will go straight through to a trained counsellor.
Call free on 0800 028 3766 .
If you, or someone else, requires immediate support for a mental health emergency, please call NHS-24 on 111 .
If you feel your mental health concern is not urgent but you would benefit from speaking to someone, we recommend contacting your GP.
This could be your home GP, if you have not registered for one near your University campus yet.
Our team of Academic Skills Advisers provide advice, guidance, and resources to help develop your academic skills for success at university and beyond.
All students are automatically registered with the UWS Careers & Academic Skills Website where you will find a wide variety of academic skills resources.
The Student Hub is the first point of contact for support or questions that you may have during your student journey at UWS.
There is a Student Hub on every campus and you can also contact the team by WhatsApp.
All students can access information on the following services via The Student Hub.
Current students can contact The Student Hub directly either by WhatsApp or on each campus as below:
WhatsApp: 0141 848 3998
The Student Hub on campus:
Monday to Friday
UWS incorporates four distinctive campuses situated in the west and south-west of Scotland: Ayr, Dumfries, Lanarkshire and Paisley, and one in central London.
Each campus location has its own individual character, architecture and social scene.
Whether you choose an urban or rural environment, our campuses offer modern accommodation, varied extra-curricular activities and excellent teaching and study facilities.
The social side of university life is hugely important.
Our Students’ Union won the University Students’ Association of the Year in the NUS (National Union of Students) Scotland Awards in both 2022 and 2023.
Life as a UWS student offers the opportunity to follow your passions, develop new interests and meet fascinating people.
Our Students’ Union is run for students by students.
The Union organise and deliver a wide range of social and sporting events all year round.
They campaign with you, and on your behalf, on the issues that really matter to you.
Each campus offers study spaces in the library, which include quiet areas for individual study and group study areas.
UWS catering outlets deliver the kind of relaxing environments on campus that are normally found on the high street.
Our facilities across the campuses have become a hub where our customers can socialise and relax.
Delivering exceptional value for money, our outlets offer hot and cold items, and a range of confectionery products.
Staying in University accommodation during your studies is a great way to meet new people, make new friends and gain some independence.
You have the reassurance that our Residence Life team are always onsite for help and support.
Each UWS campus has a choice of accommodation on offer.
A variety of self-catered accommodation is available at our campuses in Ayr and Paisley in the form of shared flats or studios.
All offer a safe and friendly environment close to main campus buildings and near to local amenities within the west of Scotland.
Students attending the UWS London Campus generally find their own accommodation, either in the form of a private let or privately managed residence.
A Banner number is required to make an application for accommodation.
If you're a staff member or student of another institution wishing to stay with us, contact our residences team for further help and advice.
Contact the Accommodation team
Email: accommodation@uws.ac.uk Telephone: +44 (0)141 848 3159

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/alumni:
UWS alumni make up a diverse community of over 120,000 graduates across Scotland, the United Kingdom and across the world.
UWS alumni make up a diverse community of over 120,000 graduates across Scotland, the United Kingdom and around the world.
We’re here to help you stay in touch with old friends and to engage with your University.
You’re part of our community, whether you graduated from UWS or one of our founding institutions:
UWS alumni qualify for a range of benefits as well as the chance to enjoy networks and reunions.
And current and future students gain in turn when UWS alumni offer their support and experience.
Use this section to find out:
If you are a former student of the university, you are automatically a member of our Alumni Association and may be eligible for a 20% discount on Masters’ Degree tuition fees for full time study.
Use the links below to find out more about the benefits of being a UWS alumni, how you can keep in touch with us, how we can help you, and how you can help current UWS students.
UWS alumni are eligible for a range of benefits.
Help our bright students achieve their ambitions, regardless of their backgrounds by making a recurring gift or single gift to the UWS Development Fund.
The UWS Development Fund is supported by gifts ...
The UWS Alumni Association can help you organise a memorable class reunion celebration or help you track down lost UWS friends
Find out about the successes of our UWS alumni as they developed their careers in industry, commerce, the professions, or in third and public sector organisations.
Tell us about your career to date.
Find out how UWS Alumni Association can help you replace copies of degree certificates or academic transcripts.
Stay in touch with UWS Alumni Association and fellow alumni by registering with us and updating your career details.
UWS has been recognised for its amazing contribution to society and we want you to share in, and be proud of these successes:
Ranked in the top 200 of the world’s universities that are 50 years old, or younger (source: Times Higher Education Young University Rankings 2024)
Officially recognised by Times Higher Education in the top 300 universities worldwide as assessed against the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDGs).
UWS was the 2nd most impactful university in Scotland and 26th most impactful university in the world for 'reducing inequalities' (UNSDG 10) (source: Times Higher Education Impact Rankings 2025)
UWS is committed to protecting the privacy of our alumni, friends and supporters and being transparent in how we process and store personal data.
See our Fundraising and Alumni Privacy Notice 2025 (PDF) for more details.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/academic-staff-profiles:
Visit the UWS Academic Staff Portal to find out more about our academic staff and their globally relevant work.
You can visit The UWS Academic Portal to find out more about our academic staff, their research outputs, activities and globally relevant work.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/about-uws:
Career-focused teaching.
World-leading research.
An international outlook.
And a far-sighted approach to technology and innovation.
For the ultimate student and business experience, look to UWS.
Our reach across the south and west of Scotland, together with our London campus, means that UWS is a significant force in global knowledge creation, innovation, and a leading provider of undergraduate, postgraduate and research degree education.
Our degrees provide students with a transformational experience, resulting in highly sought-after graduates in world-leading sectors, industries and businesses.
UWS’s employer-focused degrees align with business, community, third sector, government and international priorities, and provide the perfect springboard to create economic benefits across Scotland, the UK and beyond.
With cutting-edge courses, modern pedagogy and practical knowledge, we enable our students and staff to experience the joy of learning, teaching, research and innovation, and apply their knowledge for the benefit of others.
Find out more about UWS.
UWS is formed as a "body corporate" under the terms of a Statutory instrument.
The University's constitutional basis is contained within the UWS Order of Council 2019.
The Vice-Chancellor’s Executive is the senior leadership and decision-making group within UWS.
UWS has four academic schools, four campuses across the west of Scotland and one in London, and a network of research institutes and professional support departments.
A series of guidelines and commitments have been put into place that lay out a path to achieving the University's goals and objectives.
This page outlines our website's Privacy Notice, compliance with the UK Data Protection Act 1998, information that we gather and how we store it.
UWS is committed to ensuring procurement is carried out in a way that is environmentally, socially, ethically and economically responsible.
This page contains approved policies, procedures and guidelines.
Published documents are always the most recent version and are applicable to the current academic year (unless otherwise stated).
This section contains our legal statements, policy information and contact details for UWS staff.
At UWS we value our people and recognise that our staff are our most valuable resource.
UWS is a great place to work – we are a university that genuinely cares for our employees.
Find full details of academic year term dates at UWS here.
UWS Academic Year Calendar 2024-25
UWS Academic Year Calendar 2025-26
UWS Academic Year Calendar 2026-27

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/news:
We welcome enquiries from journalists regarding any University-related matter.
If you are a member of the media and would like expert academic comment or if you have a general University media enquiry please contact us.
News article results for ‘{{resultsKeyword}}’
{{result.Date}}
{{result.Author.replace("%20"," ")}}
{{campus}}
Please adjust yout filter options to refine your search results

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/library:
Supporting your academic success
There is a Library on each UWS campus, with a wide range of digital and print resources available to support you during your time at UWS.
Our digital resources are available online 24/7.
The Library Team are available to assist you at our Library Info Points on campus.
To find full details of all the services and resources available, plus library opening hours, collection searches, and more, visit the UWS Library here .
Click here for full details of UWS Library services
The UWS Library Service is committed to looking after any information that you make available to us in line with all statutory requirements.
This privacy notice outlines when and why we collect personal information from you and how we keep your information secure and your rights in relation to this information.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/contact-us:
Below are details of how to contact us.
In order that we can respond quickly to you enquiry, please select from the contact details in each of the specific categories, below.
British Sign Language (BSL) users can contact us via Contact Scotland-BSL , the online BSL video interpreting video relay service.
Contact Scotland-BSL runs a service for British Sign Language users and all of Scotland’s public bodies using video relay.
This enables sign language users to contact public bodies and vice versa.
The service operates 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
Find out more about BSL assistance and Contact Scotland-BSL using the link below:
Contact Scotland-BSL
The Student Hub on Scottish campuses:
Monday to Wednesday
Thursday to Friday
The Student Hub on UWS London Campus:
If you have a question about a specific course or an ongoing application, contact us by phone or email address:
If you are interested in making an application through Clearing then please visit our Clearing Hub or you can call our dedicated Clearing Hotline on 0800 027 1000
International enquiries for studies at UWS Scottish campuses: international@uws.ac.uk
International enquiries for studies at UWS London Campus to enquiries@teg.london
We welcome enquiries from journalists regarding any University-related matters.
If you are a member of the media and would like expert academic comment or if you have a general University media enquiry, you can find the relevant details below.
Please note these should be used for media enquiries only.
communications@uws.ac.uk (Please use this shared mailbox in the first instance)
Duncan McKay, Communications and Public Affairs Manager Email: duncan.mckay@uws.ac.uk (Corporate Communications)
Lauren Macgregor, Senior Communications and Marketing Officer Email: lauren.macgregor@uws.ac.uk (Corporate Communications and School of Health and Life Sciences)
Kirsty Morrison, Communications and Marketing Officer Email: kirsty.morrison@uws.ac.uk (Corporate Communications, School of Computing, Engineering and Physical Sciences and School of Education and Social Sciences)
Chris Watters, Communications and Marketing Officer Email: chris.watters@uws.ac.uk (Corporate Communications and School of Business and Creative Industries)
If you have an urgent media enquiry out-with normal business hours (Monday to Friday, 8:45am-4:45pm), please contact communications@uws.ac.uk .
Current UWS students and potential UWS students (applicants) often mistakenly use FOI details to ask questions relating to their course, admissions and applications.
The Freedom of Information (Scotland) Act 2002 (FOISA) came into force on 1 January 2005.
Under FOISA, you can request information from any Scottish public authority which holds it.
UWS is one such public authority.
We are obliged to supply the information to subject to certain conditions and exemptions as set out in the Act.
Only FOI enquiries to request information that the University holds should be submitted to foi@uws.ac.uk .
Please include your full name in the body of your request.
You can also send an FOI request by post to: Legal Services, University of the West of Scotland, High Street, Paisley PA1 2BE.
UWS is committed to providing an excellent education experiences and services to our students and stakeholders.
However, if there is something you are dissatisfied with, please tell us as we use this information to help us improve our services.
For information on how to make a complaint and to access the University’s full Complaints Handling Procedure, please visit our Policies and Procedures section .
If you have any questions regarding the Complaints Handling Procedure, email complaints@uws.ac.uk
University of the West of Scotland Ayr Campus University Avenue Ayr KA8 0SX Scotland United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)1292 886 000
Link to Ayr campus - Google maps
University of the West of Scotland Dumfries Campus Bankend Road Dumfries DG1 4FD Scotland United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)1387 345 800
Link to Dumfries campus - Google maps
University of the West of Scotland Lanarkshire Campus Stephenson Place Hamilton International Technology Park South Lanarkshire G72 0LH Scotland United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)1698 283 100
Link to Lanarkshire campus - Google maps
University of the West of Scotland Floor 7 The Import Building 2 Clove Crescent Poplar London E14 2BE
Tel: +44 (0)141 848 3047
Link to London campus - Google maps
UWS’s service partner The Education Group (TEG) promotes and advises on our study options in London.
For details on UWS study opportunities in London contact TEG at enquiries@teg.london
University of the West of Scotland Paisley Campus High Street Paisley PA1 2BE Scotland United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)141 848 3000
Link to Paisley campus - Google maps

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study:
We provide career-relevant, inclusive higher education alongside internationally recognised research.
Start your undergraduate, postgraduate, or research studies with us!
In the Times Higher Education Impact Rankings 2025, UWS was the 26th most impactful university in the world for ‘reducing inequalities’ (UN Sustainable Development Goal 10).
This demonstrates our commitment to sustainability, transforming our world and improving lives.
Find out more about studying at UWS.
Find your course of interest from our career-focused undergraduate, postgraduate (taught) and post-experience options.
Our friendly Clearing team is here to support you every step of the way.
Whether you're ready to apply or simply exploring your undergraduate study options after receiving your results, contact us today.
Call: 0800 027 1000 (Lines open: 8am-6pm until Monday 18 August, then open 8.45am-6pm)
Email: clearing@uws.ac.uk
Complete our Clearing form
Find out more about Clearing 2025
UWS is committed to the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDGs); embedding them in our Strategy 2030.
And 26th in the world for impact on reducing inequalities (United Nations' Sustainable Development Goal 10 - SDG10).
Over 1200 universities from around the globe were assessed for their contributions to SDG10; with the top institutions selected for their commitment to ensuring equal opportunity and inclusion.
In addition, at UWS, you'll be taught by academic leaders in their field.
In the most recent Research Excellence Framework (2021), 90% of research at UWS was classed as world-leading, internationally excellent, or recognised internationally.
UWS is Scotland’s leading widening participation university.
At UWS, Widening Access has always been central to our institution.
We believe in supporting and enabling students to achieve their potential regardless of their background.
Widening Access at UWS
You'll enjoy an exciting social life, gain independence and make the most of the new opportunities available.
Join us at an Open Day to experience #LifeAtUWS.
Hosted across at Ayr, Dumfries, Lanarkshire and Paisley campuses, these events provide the perfect opportunity to find out everything there is to know about studying at UWS.
Our friendly team are here to support you with any questions you might need answered.
We also have a number of students who can give first-hand experience of what it is like to study at UWS.
Register your interest in undergraduate Study Register your interest in Postgraduate study CHat to a student - Uws Unibuddy Create a personalised digital prospectus
Alternatively, you can get in touch with any questions at
Email: ask@uws.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate:
Find your place at UWS
Our innovative learning environments and industry-accredited programmes will ensure your hard work adds up to a successful and fulfilling career.
With buzzing social scenes, Student Unions and sports clubs, our campuses are in enviable locations throughout the west of Scotland.
Whether you're ready to apply or simply exploring your options after receiving your results, contact us today.
Undergraduate open days and events
Register for a campus visit
At UWS, we invest in our students’ future.
Our graduates go out into the world ready to succeed thanks to our industry-relevant courses, cutting-edge facilities and innovative approach to teaching.
Our career-focused courses are led by inspiring lecturers with many years of industry experience, and students put theory into practice with hands-on learning and practical experience.
Our links to top employers throughout Scotland and the UK provide students with industry-relevant learning and work experience.
With the option to learn a language and study abroad with our international education partners, studying at UWS will enhance your prospects in the international job s market.
There's more than one route to undergraduate student at UWS
We’re proud to welcome over a thousand students from colleges in Scotland each year to our programmes and have excellent support facilities for those joining us.
The UWS Advance Programme is aimed at all college students and aims to provide year-round support, guidance and information, all tailored to help you prepare for university.
UWS Foundation Academy is an initiative for senior school pupils across the west of Scotland where pupils can study at university, develop academic skills and improve their UCAS applications.
Graduate Apprenticeships have been developed in response to demand from industry, and are matched to industries that need employees with degree-level qualifications and real-world work experience.
Hear from real students at UWS.
They found their place, you find yours!
Alannah found her place at UWS – find yours!
Register your interest in undergraduate courses
Chat to a student - Uws Unibuddy
Create a personalised digital prospectus
Alternatively, you can get in touch with any questions via email: ask@uws.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/postgraduate:
Advance your career with one of our exciting postgraduate and research degrees at UWS.
Study at an advanced level, supported by expert academic tuition and guidance.
We offer industry-focused postgraduate degrees which are designed to create work-ready graduates, building on your previous experience, helping you to develop advanced knowledge and understanding in your chosen field.
We offer intakes at our campuses through-out the year in September, January and May.
So you can apply for a time that's right for you.
Experience UWS at one of our student events.
Join us at a postgraduate event to learn more about study options at UWS.
Hosted across our campuses and online, these events provide the perfect opportunity to find out everything there is to know about studying at UWS.
Open evenings and Information sessions
With over 120 years of experience, we offer vocationally-relevant degree courses.
UWS postgraduate and post-experience (Masters) degrees are designed to create work-ready graduates.
They will help you develop advanced knowledge and understanding in your chosen field.
UWS is officially recognised by Times Higher Education, globally, as being in the top 200 universities aged 50 years or younger, in their Young University Rankings 2024.
We have an extensive and growing number of international students and partners.
As one of the UK’s most innovative modern universities, UWS has a thriving postgraduate community.
Many of our students choose UWS because they know a postgraduate degree with us will help them to secure a good job, or boost their promotion prospects in their chosen industry.
In designing our postgraduate courses, we work with industry leaders to ensure that what we teach is relevant to the sector and provides the skills most needed by employers.
In the Research Excellence Framework (2021), 90% of research at UWS was classed as world-leading, internationally excellent, or recognised internationally.
In 2024, UWS was recognised in the top 400 universities worldwide as assessed against the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
UWS was recognised as the 2nd most impactful university in Scotland, and 16th globally, for 'reducing inequalities' (UNSDG 10).
These are just some of the reasons why you should choose UWS for your postgraduate and professional development studies.
Enjoy an exciting social life, connect with like minded academics and make the most of the new opportunities available.
Hear from real students who found their place at UWS.
They found their place, find yours!
Bikash, Advanced Biomedical Science Student
Melissa found her place at UWS – find yours!
Find out how Sitaram found his place at UWS and is meeting new people from around the world.
Register your interest in a Postgraduate course
Download a prospectus
Speak to a student - Unibuddy
Alternatively you can contact us by email: ask@uws.ac.uk or phone: 0800 027 1000 (UK) / +44 (0) 141 849 4101 (out-with UK).

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/open-days-info-sessions:
We host a range of events throughout the year, both on campus and online, focusing on study options across undergraduate, postgraduate taught and postgraduate research.
We hope to see you soon at one of our events!
Postgraduate open days and events
We have events throughout the year from our flagship Open Days to programme and subject level information sessions.
See some highlight events below or view our full event list.
Attend AN open day
We'd love to meet you at one of our Campus Visits.
This is a great opportunity to find out more about life at UWS and take a tour to see for yourself our campuses in Ayr, Lanarkshire and Paisley.
Whether you’re starting this September or, thinking of applying later, we’d love to see you!

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/clearing:
Clearing is a perfect opportunity to join UWS.
During Clearing, our entry requirements remain flexible.
We are committed to providing opportunities to study with us based on a range of qualifications.
Please get in touch, and we can discuss your specific circumstances.
Programmes in Clearing are linked directly below, you can click to find out more about the course.
If you are already decided and have your results, once you see it listed you can apply, or call 0800 027 1000.
We’re here to guide you through the Clearing process, providing the information and advice you need to apply.
Get ready for the big day —your exam results are in!
Wondering what’s next?
Let’s explore your options together.
Our FAQs give you information and pointers to the most common questions that arise during the UCAS Clearing process.
Clearing can be a stressful time for students.
To help, we’ve pulled together some information and practical tips for supporting them through the process.
Read more about real UWS students who found their place at UWS.
Aidan found his place at UWS – find yours!

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/english-language-courses:
We offer two English language focused academic courses of study:
In addition, in order to cater for the needs of students whose first language is not English, we offer Pre-Sessional English courses to enable students to meet the English language entry requirements for their chosen programme at UWS.
We also offer In-Sessional English modules for students who are currently studying on any UWS programmes, and who would like to continue developing their English language skills.
All courses and classes are taught by highly-qualified and experienced English language teachers.
Both online and on-campus study options are available, with a maximum class size of 20 students in each group.
Our 5-week and 10-week Pre-Sessional English courses normally take place between May and August, with online and on-campus study options available.
We also offer longer courses for students who need more time to achieve the required level.
For more information about Pre-Sessional English study options, please follow the links below:
Pre-Sessional English is a 5-10 week intensive course for students who need to improve their English language skills before beginning an undergraduate degree at UWS.
English Language Online Courses are for students who have been unable to take the IELTS (or equivalent) during the application period.
English Language for University Study is a 41-week immersive course for students who want to improve their English language skills before beginning undergraduate study.
The following modules are available for students who want to develop their English skills while undertaking any study programme at UWS:
With each module, students attend one 3-hour workshop per week (usually from 09.00-12.00 or 13.00-16.00), and complete additional tasks in their own time, which are supported through the university’s virtual learning environment, Aula.
To find out more about the content and assessment of each module, please contact us.
If a module is part of your current study programme, there is no extra cost to enrol.
Free places are also available to the first 50 students who enrol on English language modules each term.
Other students can enrol on these modules by paying the standard single-module fee.
For more information, or to register for an additional English language module, please email englishlanguage@uws.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/graduate-apprenticeships:
Over 80% of our fully funded Graduate Apprenticeship places have already been reserved for September 2025.
Get in touch with us directly at apprenticeships@uws.ac.uk to understand how your organisation can benefit from a UWS Graduate Apprenticeship.
Future-proof your business and secure our remaining funded places for your organisation.
Our Graduate Apprenticeships (GAs) and Workplace Learning (WPL) programmes provide a fully funded pathway for individuals to achieve a degree or for organisations to invest in the talents of their workforce.
UWS is adopting a groundbreaking approach to workplace learning for professionals in Scotland.
We are expanding our portfolio of fully funded programmes to include Graduate Apprenticeships and similar Workplace Learning initiatives, addressing critical skills gaps and building capacity in targeted sectors.
Contact Our team
UWS currently offers eight Graduate Apprenticeships and a sector relevant Workplace Learning programme:
The BA (Hons) Business Management is a Graduate Apprenticeship degree for full-time employees in Scotland, and is delivered mostly on-the-job.
The GA in Business and Project Management is brand new for 2024 and has been developed in collaboration with industry leaders to develop aspiring Project Managers.
The BSc (Hons) Data, AI and Software Engineering is a Graduate Apprenticeship degree for full-time employees in Scotland.
It is accredited by the British Computer Society and is delivered mostly on-th...
The BEng (Hons) Engineering Design & Manufacture is a Graduate Apprenticeship degree for full-time employees in Scotland.
It is delivered mostly through company-based learning and assessment.
This BEng (Hons) Civil Engineering is a Graduate Apprenticeship degree for full-time employees in Scotland.
The BSc (Hons) Town Planning programme offers students a unique opportunity to advance their careers through personal and professional development.
The UWS BSc Operating Department Practitioner (Graduate Apprenticeship) mirrors contemporary Operating Department practice, placing a strong emphasis on experiential learning.
The UWS Graduate Apprenticeship degree BA Early Learning and Childcare has been developed in response to the national agenda - A Blueprint for 2020.
The BA (Hons) Social Work is a Graduate Apprenticeship degree for full-time employees in Scotland, and is delivered mostly on-the-job.
The benefits of Graduate Apprenticeships are significant but don’t take our word for it.
Hear from our student and graduate community to discover the power of Graduate Apprenticeships at UWS.
Kirsty Smith, Design Team Leader, Ayrshire Road Alliance
Some sectors are reporting critical skills shortages that are affecting the growth of individual organisations and the wider Scottish economy.
UWS is delivering Graduate Apprenticeships with support from Scottish Funding Council and Skills Development Scotland.
GAs are already delivering tangible benefits to employers:
Earn while you learn and graduate with a degree that powers your career progress.
We’re fiercely proud that 45% of UWS students are the first in their family to come to university.
We believe that work experience is just as important as traditional qualifications from school, college and university.
We have designed a unique process to assess skills and knowledge built up over time in work and translate these into university credits.
Accreditation of Prior Experiential Learning (APEL) opens the door for working people to be recognised and welcomed into our programmes at the right level, suited to their working experience.
CONTACT OUR TEAM for more info
Be the mentor of your employees during their UWS GA or WPL journey.
Celebrate their progression and invest in your team for industry-ready organisational growth.
What to look forward to as a Mentor:
To find out more about our Graduate Apprenticeships, please contact our dedicated team.
Find further information for employers and applicants below:
Information for Employers
Information for Applicants

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/cpd-short-courses-modules:
As Scotland’s leading career-focused university, UWS has an impressive track record working with private, public and third sector organisations to fulfil the training and development needs of their employees
Our range of flexible short courses have been developed to support continuing professional development in the workplace.
Short courses will help you to gain knowledge or skills to:
University of the West of Scotland has a comprehensive range of short courses in industry areas, delivered by experienced and knowledgeable staff in our academic schools and IT Academy.
We have some dedicated pages set aside for our Health-related modules (see below) and for all other CPD and short course study options visit our dedicated website:
Visit our dedicated CPD website
See also our modules for those wishing to start a career in nursing or midwifery or for health professionals wishing to advance their careers.
Health-related modules

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/potential-new-courses:
UWS continually reviews, redevelops and augments its course portfolios.
This section provides information about potential new course proposals which are undergoing validation and approval procedures.
Please contact us for more information or check back for updates.
Contact Us
BSc (Hons) Robotics and Artificial Intelligence provides a multidisciplinary education focused on the design, development, and programming of intelligent machines and systems.
The programme typically combines elements of computer science, electronics engineering, mechanical engineering, and data science, giving students a strong foundation in both the theoretical and practical aspects of robotics and AI.
The amalgamation of cross discipline modules, which have been included in the programme, would allow students to gain in-depth insights in (but not limited to) software engineering, cybersecurity, applied mathematics, computer programming, computer networking, embedded systems, smart manufacturing and automation, computer vision and sensing, intelligent systems and machine learning, and VR (virtual reality) and AR (augmented reality) technologies.
Contact US TO REGISTER INTEREST
Get ready to pursue a career in animal care with UWS’s BSc (Hons) Animal Care with Entrepreneurship.
You’ll receive hands-on training in a wide range of natural science disciplines to establish your knowledge before progressing to study more advanced animal care topics.
Work-related learning combined with a solid grounding in business models plus access to UWS’s state-of-the-art laboratories will prepare you for a wide range of career options.
Large amounts of practical work, experience with modern techniques and developing animal handling skills are key strengths of this degree as is the option to undertake a work placement in Year 3.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/current-students/supporting-your-studies:
The Times Higher Education Impact Rankings 2024 found that UWS was 2nd in Scotland, and 16th most impactful university in the world, for reducing inequalities.
The Term Dates provides a list of important dates for each academic year.
This includes the start and end date of each trimester, examination periods, trimester breaks and public holidays.
Information about assessment, exam results, grade point average and academic appeals.
Find out about the support available to help our students with their studies.
This page contains information about making a complaint for students, staff and members of the public.
It also outlines the UWS Complaint Handling Procedure.
There are many ways we can help you get the most out of your student experience.
If you feel things aren’t going well, either with your course or within your personal life, talk to us for advice.
UWS Graduate Attributes provide a framework to focus discussions and reflect on your personal development, to help make the most of your time at UWS.
Links to information about the student record.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/money-fees-funding:
Find everything you need to know about how much it will cost to study at UWS, as well as information on the funding that may be available to help you meet these costs and help support your living costs during your studies.
You can also find out about any additional funds that might be available, and get advice and guidance on how to make the most of your money.
Your tuition fee status is determined by your nationality and the country where you are ordinarily resident.
Find out all about undergraduate fees and funding for UK, EU and International students, including tuition fees, student loans, grants and our wide variety of scholarships.
Funding information for our BSc Adult Nursing, Mental Health Nursing, Midwifery or Paramedic Science courses, and our MSc Adult Nursing, Mental Health Nursing or Midwifery, with registration, courses.
UWS administers a range of discretionary and childcare funds.
This section offers advice and guidance to UWS students to help you manage your money and make the right financial choices for you and your family.
UWS are thrilled to offer two full tuition fee scholarships for postgraduate study for North American applicants.
Details of scholarships, bursaries and financial incentives available to help you meet the cost of your studies here at UWS.
Whether you are thinking about studying and want to know more about funding options, or are a current student who needs help to manage your money, we offer something for everyone.
If you need to make payments of tuition fees or if you have a question about your UWS tuition fees, you can find answers to many of the most common queries here.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/about-uws/policies-procedures-guidance:
Click the link below if you are looking for our UWS Regulatory Framework which outlines all aspects relating to the provision of our programmes of study, including admission, progression and assessment on our credit-bearing academic awards.
View our Regulatory Framework 2025-26
All our approved policies, procedures and guidelines are grouped into specific categories according to their functional ownership and area of application.
Click the links below to navigate the webpage.
Learning, Teaching & Student Success | Information Services | Finance | Health & Safety | Corporate Goverenace | Research & Innovation | People & Wellbeing | Quality | External Quality Review (QSER) |
Back to top ↑
The People and and Wellbeing Policy Statement sets out our commitment and the broad principles within which we will operate to support our staff in relation to the employment relationship, helping create sustainable and successful relationships between our people and the organisation.
People and Wellbeing have a number of procedures to help UWS achieve its strategic ambitions through our people, by fostering cultures of trust, fairness and inclusion in which people feel supported, engaged and relate to each other in a professional way.
These are outline in the sections below:
Employee Relations | Equality & Diversity | Family Friendly | Resourcing | Rewards & Recognition

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/international:
UWS is a truly international university with origins dating back to 1897.
Our degrees will provide you with a global outlook and prepare you for the best international opportunities available.
UWS is delighted to announce that self-funding international applicants applying to selected degree programmes at our Scottish and London campuses for entry in 2025/26 will be eligible for an enhanced scholarship.
A limited number of places with enhanced scholarships will be made available so please apply now, secure your offer and find your place at UWS.
Click below to find out more.
Every year at the University of the West of Scotland, we welcome hundreds of international students into our vibrant and diverse academic community.
We do everything we can to help them prepare for life at UWS as well as supporting them during their studies.
University of the West of Scotland offers a range of career-focused undergraduate, postgraduate and research degree opportunities across four academic schools.
UWS is internationally active - we have official, in-country, representatives; travel throughout the year across the globe; and consider all international academic qualifications for entry.
University of the West of Scotland is a truly global university.
Find out more about our links with educational institutions across Europe and beyond.
Step-by-step guides to the UWS application processes for international students at undergraduate, postgraduate and research degree level.
To be successful at UWS, all students need to meet the minimum standard of English required for academic study.
If English is not your native language, check whether you meet the entry requirements.
In the Times Higher Education Impact Rankings 2025, UWS has been ranked  in the world’s top 300 universities for sustainable development and the 26th most impactful university in the world for ‘reducing inequalities’ (UN Sustainable Development Goal 10).
This demonstrates our commitment to sustainability and, building on our existing research and education strengths, transforming our world and improving lives.
As a UWS graduate, you'll be work-ready and feel prepared to contribute both locally and globally and help transform the world and improve lives..
UNDERGRADUATE STUDY POSTGRADUATE STUDY
The University offers a number of full tuition fee scholarship opportunities for applicants from the United States of America applying to study on any taught postgraduate degree (MA, MBA, MSc) at one of our Scottish campuses.
For our postgraduate intake in September 2025, we are delighted to offer opportunities for application for the Frances Wright Scholarship and for the Frederick and Anna Murray Douglass Scholarship for postgraduate (master's) study across all of our academic schools:
For more information and details of eligibility and application deadlines, as well as links to the application form, click the link below:
All international applicants are required to meet minimum English language standards.
There are certain exemptions, eg.
native speakers of English.
Find out more by clicking the link below:
UWS English Language Requirements
To cater for the needs of students whose first language is not English, we offer a range of Pre-Sessional English Language courses to enable students to meet the English language entry requirements for their chosen programme at UWS.
UWS English Language Courses
UWS warmly welcomes undergraduate students from our Study Abroad partners visiting for a semester or academic year.
We offer a wide range of attractive classes which can transfer back to fulfil the degree requirements at your home institution.
Each year UWS are delighted to welcome many students to Scotland from our partner institutions across the world.
We look forward to welcoming you to Scotland!
As an incoming student  to UWS you have a fantastic opportunity to:
For key resources to support you with applying for a visa from overseas and to help prepare you for living in the UK, please check out all the useful guides from the International Student Support team .
Mo Zhou – BA Business Studies student from China
UWS is a vibrant modern university with five campuses in the United Kingdom.
We have four campuses in the south-west of Scotland - Paisley, Lanarkshire, Ayr and Dumfries.
We also have our London Campus located in Canary Wharf.
Each campus has it's own character and tight community while all identifiably UWS.
Located in the centre of Paisley – Scotland's largest town – the campus is just 10 minutes by train from Glasgow, one of Europe's most exciting and dynamic cities.
Our London Campus offers modern and dynamic, flexible work and learning spaces with panoramic views of London Docklands.
Located at Hamilton International Technology Park, our award-winning Lanarkshire campus provides state-of-the-art learning and teaching facilities.
Located just a 10-minute walk from Ayr town centre on the Craigie Estate next to the River Ayr, UWS's Ayr Campus creates a truly innovative learning environment for students.
Our new Dumfries campus offers state-of-the-art learning and teaching facilities, located against a stunning rural backdrop.
UWS is a member of the United Nations Academic Impact initiative.
This membership connects us to a global network of 1700 institutions spanning over 150 countries.
UNAI actively involves participating institutions in advancing the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) through dedicated efforts in education and research.
Our open days and information sessions are a great way to see what it’s like to study at UWS, and explore the options available if you’re considering student accommodation.
We have open days for undergraduates in June and in the Autumn across our four Scottish campuses.
There's also an open evening for postgraduates and programme specific information sessions to attend.
Open Days and Info Sessions
Our undergraduate and postgraduate prospectuses are digital!
Just provide a few details and in a matter of moments you’ll get access to your personalised downloadable prospectus packed with the information that matters most to you.
No filler.
No jargon.
Just your UWS.
Your way.
Undergraduate prospectus Postgraduate prospectus
For more information on studying at UWS Scottish campuses, email us at: international@uws.ac.uk
For more information on our London Campus visit www.uwslondon.ac.uk
The west of Scotland is an area defined by contrast.
Rich in tradition yet culturally diverse; home to historic towns and modern cities with excellent transport links across Scotland, iconic historic sites and surrounded by beautiful countryside, there really is something for everyone.
Our newest campus is situated in the heart of London, one of the world’s most exciting cities.
The UWS London Campus offers attractive, modern facilities in close proximity to central London.
Students can take advantage of the endless number of visitor attractions in London including the Tate Modern, the National Gallery and the Victoria and Albert Museum, not to mention world-class restaurants, nightlife and shopping.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/international/study-options:
UWS offers a range of career-focused undergraduate, postgraduate and research degree opportunities across four academic schools.
We combine first-class teaching with modern research facilities, and our research-active teaching staff are dedicated to making a real difference to the world, developing innovative technologies and shaping our society.
UWS offers a range of postgraduate degree programmes starting in May 2025.
Whether you are looking to enhance your knowledge and skills in a specific area or looking to broaden your knowledge in a new area, there are study options available for you on one of our career-focused and professionally aligned programmes.
UWS’s undergraduate/Bachelor courses (BA, BAcc, BD, BEng, BSc) are career-focused, designed in partnership with business and industry.
Students graduate with internationally recognised qualifications, ready to succeed in the job market.
Are you planning to update your skills or looking for a new career direction?
We offer a wide range of postgraduate/Masters (MA, MBA, MSc) and post-experience taught courses across academic schools designed to help develop your career.
UWS offer a range of applied research programmes and degrees (MRes, MPhil, PhD) aligned to our academic schools’ and research institutes' areas of expertise.
We also offer new doctorates for professionals (DBA, DProf).
All international applicants need a Conformation of Acceptance of Studies (CAS) before they can apply for a UK visa to join UWS.
Once you have submitted your application, you will be emailed with instructions of what to do next in the application pocess, what documents you need to submit and what deadlines are in place.
For full details of CAS deadlines for undergraduate or postgraduate studies at any UWS campus click on the button below:
Click for more on CAS deadlines
To get the most out of your studies at UWS, it is essential that you have a good command of the English language.
All international students must meet our English Language entry requirements.
Some applicants need additional support to meet our English language requirements.
The pre-sessional English language courses at UWS will help you to achieve the necessary skills to study in English.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/international/how-to-apply:
Application for our undergraduate and postgraduate taught courses opens in August each year and runs until course start dates.
If you are applying from overseas for undergraduate or postgraduate taught courses, the latest we can process your application is 6 weeks before the course start date.
Applications for research degrees may be made at any time.
After you submit your application, we will send you an email confirming that we have received your application.
You will also be given log-in details for the system so that you can track your application.
Once your application has been processed, we will contact you by email to confirm if it has been successful.
Important information if you are applying to study at one of our Scottish Campuses:
CAS FAQs for our Scottish Campuses
Important information if you are applying to study at our London Campus:
CAS FAQs for our London Campus
The UWS Admissions Procedure has been developed to provide transparency in the admissions processes and practices of University of the West of Scotland, ensuring that a quality service is given to all applicants.
Our priority for admissions is to match prospective students with the programme of study that best meets their needs, whilst ensuring that our institutional strategic objectives are met.
We are committed to ensuring that our approach to the admissions of students is transparent, fair, honest, consistent, accessible, personalised and timely.
View the UWS Admissions Policy

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/research-degrees:
Postgraduate Research degrees from University of the West of Scotland enable you to work at the cutting-edge of your industry or sector and contribute to the advancement of knowledge.
To be a successful research student you must be passionate about your subject area, with enthusiasm for research and analysis, and the motivation to manage a personal learning programme.
You will have already demonstrated research aptitude in undergraduate or masters-level studies.
As a career-focused university we work with international businesses, regional enterprises, local and international education partners to ensure that UWS research drives innovation and supports the future needs of society, industry and government.
This focus increases your employability and career prospects, whether you seek a career in an academic or commercial environment.
We offer research study opportunities (MRes, MPhil, PhD, DBA and DProf) across all of our subject areas and Academic Schools.
With cutting-edge facilities, specialist knowledge and world-leading and internationally excellent expertise, UWS aims to develop research outputs that have a tangible impact on society across the globe.
UWS has set the vision to be recognised as a world-leading university based on supporting excellent, relevant and purposeful research aligned with the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
n the Times Higher Education Impact Rankings 2025, UWS was officially recognised in the top 300 universities worldwide as assessed against the United Nations’ SDGs.
UWS was recognised as the 2nd most impactful university in Scotland, and 26th globally, for 'reducing inequalities' (UN SDG 10).
Find out more about UWS and UN SDGs
In the most recent round of research assessment in the UK - Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2021, 90 percent of research at UWS was classed as world-leading, internationally excellent, or recognised internationally.
The University also increased its position for research intensity, now ranking within the top 90 universities in the UK.
UWS’s REF results include an outstanding performance for Sport and Exercise Sciences, Leisure and Tourism, ranking within the top three Scottish universities in this area, with 71 percent of research recognised as world-leading or internationally excellent.
The University also saw 100 percent of its impact in Physics recognised as internationally excellent.
The results reinforce the position that UWS makes a significant contribution to economic, social, cultural, health and public policy, both internationally and within our local communities.
Find out more about UWS and REF (2021)
Connor, PhD in Dementia Care at UWS
In the Times Higher Education (THE) Impact Rankings 2025, UWS has been ranked  in the world’s top 300 universities for sustainable development and 16th in the world for impact on reducing inequalities (United Nations' Sustainable Development Goal 10 - SDG10).
Join us on your applied research journey and help improve the world we live in.
Explore the options below to start your research journey
Find out more about our research degrees (Master of Research (MRes), Master of Philosophy (MPhil), Doctor of Philosophy (PhD), Doctor of Business Administration (DBA) & Professional Doctorate (DProf).
A postgraduate research degree from UWS provides advanced academic knowledge and skills, delivered by academic experts in a supportive and inclusive research community.
Studentships recognise academic talent by providing a generous financial contribution towards your PhD-level studies.
Everything you need to know about applying for postgraduate research degree at UWS, including step-by-step guides, entry and English language requirements.
PURE is the University's research information management system and provides a single source of research information for UWS.
It is used to record and manage research activity with details of research outputs, funding applications, conference contributions, external impact and staff profiles.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/international/english-language-requirements:
As all academic qualifications at UWS are taught in English, it’s essential that you are able to competently read, speak and understand the English language to get the most out of your time at UWS and be successful in your studies.
All international applicants are required to meet minimum English language standards, with the exception of:
If you are applying to study a course at, or above, Year 1 (SCQF Level 7) bachelor’s degree level, then the UK Visa & Imigration's (UKVI’s) minimum level of English proficiency is Common European Framework for References of Languages (CEFR) at B2 (Upper Intermediate).
UKVI allows universities to make their own assessment for applicants entering Year 3 (SCQF Level 9), or above, and so UWS will still accept a IELTs certificate that does not have the unique UKVI reference number.
In these cases, we would advise on the CAS that the UWS has made our own assessment.
In addition to accepting IELTs without a unique UKVI reference number, UWS will also accept alternative English language tests for SCQF Level 9 study, or above (see below for more details).
Please note that any English language qualification should have been taken within two years of the UWS course start date.
These are minimum requirements and some courses may require a higher standard for admission†.
† see IELTS Score Exceptions section below for more information.
For our research degrees ( MRes, MPhil, PhD, DBA, DProf ), applicants are required to have an IELTS score as follows:
For Health, Nursing & Midwifery courses that lead to professional registration with the Nursing & Midwifery Council (BSc Adult Nursing, MSc Adult Nursing, BSc Mental Health Nursing, MSc Mental Health Nursing, BSc Midwifery and MSc Midwifery) , applicants are required to have an IELTS score as follows:
For our BSc (Hons) Applied Biomedical Science, BSc (Hons) Biomedical Science and MSc Advanced Biomedical Science degrees, which may lead to professional registration with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC), applicants are required to have an IELTS score as follows:
Our BSc Paramedic Science degree leads to professional registration with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) ; it has different IELTS requirements than other Health-related courses.
Although it is not possible to apply for this degree directly as an international student, for applicants who meet SAAS residency requirements and for whom English is not their first language, then the following IELTS scores are required:
Our BA (Hons) Social Work and MSc Social Work degrees are professionally-recognised by the Scottish Social Services Council , and applicants are required to have an IELTS score as follows:
For our Certificate of Higher Education courses, applicants are required to have an IELTS score as follows:
In additional to IELTS, all of the following stated English language tests are acceptable for admission for both home/EU and international students at bachelor's degree study at Year 3 (SCQF Level 9), and above:
For all research degree applications (MRes, MPhil, PhD, DBA, DProf), TOEFL iBT: 93; with no sub-test less than 19 (Reading: 21, Listening: 19, Speaking: 20, Writing: 21)
UWS has also reviewed High / Secondary School qualifications studied by non-EU applicants that can be used as a basis of entry to a UWS award.
As such, we will consider applications with qualifications from the list below:
Students will require an IELTS or equivalent, if applying from the following School Education Boards: Haryana, Jammu & Kashmir, Punjab, Rajasthan & Uttar Pradesh
When applying to UWS, we can also accept previous degree-level study that has been taught and assessed in English in what UKVI define as a majority English speaking country.
Please note that the list of countries is not exhaustive and so please contact the Admissions team if a country is not within this list, but you (as a student) have been taught and assessed in English and can provide evidence to support this.
The Admissions team also review each application on ECCTIS as per country information is provided on which regions students are taught in English.
For instance, for all regions in Canada (other than Quebec) UWS will not look for a Secure English Language Test (SELT) unless you were taught at one of the following institutions:
Université de Moncton
For the following institutions, we will look for a letter confirming medium of instruction as these institutions are Bilingual:
If an applicant is from Quebec, we will ask for a SELT unless the student studied at one of the following institutions:
If you live outside the EU/EEA, you will need to obtain a visa in order to live and study in the UK.
If English is not your first language you will need to meet minimum standards of English set out by UK Visas & Immigration (UKVI) as part of the visa application process.
Full details of the English language test requirements set by UKVI are available on the UK Government website .
We understand that you might need to improve your English language skills to meet visa or application requirements.
Our Pre-sessional English Language courses help you meet the IELTS standard for study at UWS.
See our English Language Courses

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/international/country-information/china:
UWS has a dedicated team looking after our east and south-east asian social media and website platforms and their contact.
University of the West of Scotland has long established links with China and over the past 20 years we have welcomed over 4,000 Chinese students onto our undergraduate, postgraduate and research programmes.
The Chinese students & scholars association at UWS play an active role in many of the University’s social societies and sports clubs.
This means that as a student at UWS, you will have the opportunity to meet people from your home country as well as making new friends from Scotland and other parts of the world.
There are currently around 4000 UWS graduates working in China for companies such as:
UWS enjoys excellent links with China and we work closely with a number of Chinese institutions, engaging in joint research, knowledge partnerships and in running articulation programmes.
Research currently being undertaken in collaboration with our Chinese partner universities includes an assessment and mitigation of environmental issues around resource exploitation which has created challenging pollution problems across China directly affecting water and food quality.
(Please be aware that no local institutions in mainland China are authorised to deliver face-to-face classes for the MBA  programme.)
Please visit the link below for our Chinese partner universities’ websites: http://uws.asia/en/partners.php
We work with many educational representatives across China (Mainland), Hong Kong and Taiwan.
Our Admissions team are familiar with the Chinese education system and qualifications.
If you have any questions about your application to study at UWS, please contact our Admissions team on: internationaladmissions@uws.ac.uk .
If it isn’t your first language, you will need to have a good command of English to get the best results from your studies with us.
All non-native English speakers are required to meet the English language criteria specified by the University.
You can view our most recent information regarding Bachelor or Master's degree entry requirements for Non-EU students by clicking the links below:
Undergraduate (Bachelor) Entry Requirements
Postgraduate (Master's) Entry Requirements
We are keen to provide as much information as possible that will help you in making your application to UWS.
Below are specific notes depending on whether you are applying for one of our Bachelor (BA, BAcc, BD, BEng, BSc) degrees, Master (MA, MBA, MEd, MSc) degrees or Research (MRes, MPhil, PhD) degrees.
If you are applying from a non-EU/EEA country for entry to one of UWS's undergraduate degree courses, and have not applied already via UCAS, or have not applied to another UK university, then you may apply through our online application system .
International candidates applying through one of our recognised partners or agents for a full-time undergraduate degree course at UWS can also apply using our online application system .
To make the application process as smooth and stress-free as possible, we've compiled a step-by-step guide to applying to study at undergraduate level at UWS .
Prior to beginning your application, we recommend that you read this to make sure you have everything you need and that you understand the process.
Applying to study a postgraduate taught course at University of the West of Scotland is a simple process through our online application system .
To make the application process as smooth and stress-free as possible, we've compiled a step-by-step guide to applying for a postgraduate taught course at UWS .
Applying to undertake a postgraduate research degree at University of the West of Scotland
is a simple process through our online application system .
To make the application process as smooth and stress-free as possible, we've compiled a step-by-step guide to applying for a postgraduate research degree at UWS .
We are keen to meet with students from around the world who are interested in studying at UWS.
Our international team and official representatives can provide information and advice on a one-to-one basis, helping you to make informed decisions on your studies.
The University has a global network of official representatives who can provide information, advice and support in choosing your university and making an application.
UWS China Office : Room C506 , Scotland Academy, Wuxi Taihu University, Binhu District, Wuxi City, Jiangsu Province, China.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/international/partner-with-us:
Working in partnership with institutions around the world, we offer students the opportunity to study for a University of the West of Scotland awarded degree in their home country.
The University of the West of Scotland offers a range of exciting programmes through a selection of approved Transnational Education (TNE) partner institutions, which you can explore below.
If you would like to partner with UWS, or would like any more information about our TNE programmes, please contact us go@uws.ac.uk
Changchun University of Science and Technology (CUST) is located in Changchun, the capital of Jilin Province in Northeast China.
Founded in 1958 by Chinese Academy of Sciences, the institution specialises in optoelectronic technology; integrating optics, mechanics, electronics, computer and material science.
Website: Changchun University of Science and Technology (CUST)
Wuxi Taihu University is located in Wuxi, Jiangsu beside the Huishan National Forest Parkand.
The institution is officially recognised by the Education Department of the Jiangsu Province, specialising in engineering, business, art, literature, science and medicine.
Programmes offered:
MAST offers a wide range of musical courses with exceptional teaching staff made up of musicians, sound engineers, engineers, computer scientists, experts in music legislation, business and music marketing.
Website: Music Academy and Recording Studio, Itlay
Email: info@mastmusic.it
AA Knowledge was founded with a commitment to provide high quality education services.
Developing training programmes for human capital development with specialisation in the areas of Corporate Training, Talent Management as well as Mergers and Acquisitions.
Programmes Offered:
Website: AA Knowledge Malaysia Sdn.Bhd
Email: info@aaknowledge.com
The London College is part of the ISMT Group and offers programmes that equip students with industry-aligned knowledge, practical skills, and professional aptitude, empowering them to excel in the competitive global employment market and thrive in the demands  of modern industry.
Programme offered in partnership with UWS:
Website: www.thelondoncollege.edu.np
Email: info@thelondoncollege.edu.np
Stamford College Kathmandu is part of the ISMT Group and aims to contribute to the improvement of Nepal's education system by offering education that is accessible and aligned with industry requirements.
The college delivers programmes for students who aspire  to pursue careers in computing, information technology, artificial intelligence, data science, and other fields.
Website: https://www.stamford.edu.np/
Email: info@stamfordcollege.edu.np
Nanyang Institute of Management (NIM) provides market relevant education and training programmes.
All NIM programmes are registered and approve by the Committee for Private Education (CPE).
The partnership with UWS concerns the local delivery of UWS programmes at the NIM premises in Singapore.
Website: Nanyang Institute of Management
Email - contact@nanyang.edu.sg
Imperial College of Business Studies (ICBS) is an educational institution in Sri Lanka.
The college has two campuses, one in Colombo and the other in Kandy.
ICBS provides academic and professional support and is a CIMA Premium Learner Partner and an ACCA approved Learning Partner.
Website: Imperial College of Business Studies (ICBS)
Email: info@icbsgroup.com
Ukrainian State University of Railway Transport (UkrSURT) is a modern educational and scientific hub of the new generation.
UkrSURT is a recognised leader in training personnel for the railway industry and other spheres of economic activity in Ukraine and the world.
The mission of UkrSURT is to prepare a new generation of highly qualified specialists for the railway industry and other spheres of economic activity.
This is done through the continuous development of personality in the rapidly changing conditions of the globalised world and conducting fundamental and applied scientific research.
Courses offered:
Website: Ukrainian State University of Railway Transport (UkrSURT)
Email: info@kart.edu.ua
Lincoln University of Business & Management offers a variety of online degrees in some of today's most in-demand fields to ambitious professionals from the Middle East, Africa, and the Indian Subcontinent.
Website: Lincoln University of Business & Management

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life:
Going to university is about much more than getting a qualification.
It’s also the chance to enjoy an exciting social life, gain some independence and make the most of the new opportunities available.
We are a multi-campus University with each location showcasing its own individual character, architecture and social-scene.
Our campuses offer modern accommodation, varied extra-curricular activities and excellent teaching and study facilities.
Our Scottish campuses are located within historic towns that allow easy commuting to Glasgow, Edinburgh and beyond.
Find out how Emily found her place at UWS and is learning new trends in marketing.
At UWS we recognise the transformative power of physical activity and sport in enabling health and wellbeing.
Our sports and physical activity experience provides opportunities to ensure you keep your body active as well as your mind.
From competitive teams, recreational sport with Team UWS, to our free on campus gyms and fitness classes, UWS Sport has everything you need to get active whilst on campus.
Our inspiring community of students and staff tell us more about what it's really like to study at UWS.
From where to get the best coffee to all the free things to do around our campuses and more, find out what makes #LifeAtUWS so great!
Visit our #LifeAtUWS blogs
At UWS, we are committed to ensuring that every student gets the most out of their university experience, regardless of their personal circumstances or background.
There are a wide range of support services available to ensure that all students fulfil their potential, achieve their goals and enjoy their time at UWS.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/campuses:
UWS incorporates four distinctive campuses situated in the west and south-west of Scotland: Ayr, Dumfries, Lanarkshire and Paisley, and one in the Docklands area of London; the capital city of the UK.
Whether you choose an urban or rural environment, our campuses offer modern, excellent teaching and study facilities.
Located in the centre of Paisley, Scotland's largest town, the campus is just 10 minutes by train from Glasgow.
Located just a 10-minute walk from Ayr town centre on the Craigie Estate next to the River Ayr, UWS's £81 million Ayr Campus creates a truly innovative learning environment for students.
UWS's award-winning £110m campus in Lanarkshire opened in September 2018 and is located on the outskirts of Hamilton, in Hamilton International Technology Park.
The west of Scotland is an area rich in tradition yet culturally diverse.
Home to modern cities with iconic historic sites and surrounded by beautiful countryside, there really is something for everyone.
Our newest campus is based in London, the capital city of England and the United Kingdom.
It is one of the most cosmopolitan and exciting cities in the world.
Culturally diverse and with an almost endless number of things to do and see, student life in London is fast-paced and lively.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/accommodation:
Choosing to stay in University accommodation is more than just a place to sleep — it’s your gateway to new friendships, unforgettable experiences, and a supportive community that feels like home.
With our dedicated Residence Life team always on hand, you’ll have the freedom to grow independently, with the reassurance that help is never far away.
Each UWS campus offers a range of comfortable, self-catered living options.
Whether you prefer the social buzz of a shared flat or the privacy of a studio, our Ayr and Paisley campuses have something to suit your lifestyle.
All accommodation is located close to campus facilities and local amenities, providing a safe, welcoming environment in the heart of the west of Scotland.
with on site staff & CCTV, feel safe and secure at all times.
Bills are all covered from day one, so you can focus on studies.
Make lifelong friends and socialise at our residence events.
Discover our Ayr halls of residence
Discover our Paisley campus halls of residence and accommodation options.
Our halls of residence offer more than just a place to stay—they’re vibrant, inclusive communities where students thrive
Allocations and waiting list information for accommodation at UWS
Frequently asked questions and answers about accommodation at UWS.
If you still need assistance or support with applications you can get in touch with the Accommodation Office at accommodation@uws.ac.uk
Know what you are looking for and ready to apply?
Application form for Paisley Campus applications form for Ayr Campus
The UWS Student Residences payment plan for session 2025-26 shows typical payments required for 2 bedroom, non-ensuite (singles and double) or single bedroom ensuite in Paisley and Ayr campuses.
Student residences payment plan GUIDE (PDF) Residential Accommodation Conditions 2025 (PDF)

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/uws-sport:
UWS Sport is the home to all sport, fitness and physical activity at the University of the West of Scotland.
University is an exciting time in your life.
We're here to help you make the most of this experience and to provide opportunities to ensure you keep your body active as well as your mind.
From competitive teams, recreational sport with Team UWS, to our on campus gyms and fitness classes, UWS Sport has everything you need to get active whilst on campus.
Interested in joining a gym, a sports team or taking part in sport at UWS?
Sign up to Team UWS
Join a UWS gym
Representing competitive and recreational sports and athletes, Team UWS is run by students for students and is professionally supported by University staff.
UWS Sport operates gym facilities across four of our campuses and caters for all fitness abilities, supporting you to keep active.
The Sport Scholarship from UWS has helped talented students to achieve their full academic and sporting potential.
Explore the A-Z of sports available to join and be part of Team UWS!
Team UWS has a range of clubs on offer for students to get involved with!
From competitive opportunities to recreational play, we have it all.
Our clubs cater to all abilities, whether you're brand new and picking up a new sport for the first time, or experienced and playing regularly.
A to Z of sports
Active Life highlights a number of activities, challenges and performances from the UWS Active community.
From Team UWS news to information on gym classes.
Edition 5 2025
Edition 4 2025
Archive
For more information on memberships, joining our gym, joining a club or team, opportunities for students and for booking facilities please contact the UWS Sports team.
General enquiry email: sportenquiry@uws.ac.uk
Ayr sports email: ayrsportservices@uws.ac.uk
Lanarkshire sports email: sportlanarkshire@uws.ac.uk
Dumfries sports email: SportDumfries@uws.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/international/living-in-scotland:
Find out what student life in Scotland has to offer and what makes it such an exciting and unique place to call home.
Rich in tradition yet culturally diverse; home to modern cities with iconic historic sites and surrounded by beautiful countryside, there really is something for everyone.
Scotland is an area defined by contrast.
Rich in tradition yet culturally diverse; home to historic towns and modern cities with excellent transport links across the country, iconic historic sites and surrounded by beautiful countryside, there really is something for everyone.
Explore the four historic UWS campus towns, Glasgow, Edinburgh and more below.
Lanarkshire, home to number of historic and modern towns and with easy access to Glasgow, is surrounded with country parks and estates and offers extensive retail and entertainment options.
Paisley is the largest town in Scotland just a few miles from Glasgow.
Paisley is a vibrant town with a proud history, lively music scene, great sports amenities, historic sites and buildings.
Glasgow is one of Europe’s most vibrant, dynamic and stylish cities.
Its music scene, pubs and restaurants could keep you busy every night of the week.
Although not on the west coast, Scotland's capital city is easily accessible from Glasgow.
It's a lively and cultured city with lots to explore.
From haggis to the Highland Fling, Scotland is home to some unique cultural traditions which every student should experience during their time here.
For those wishing to escape the city and experience the great outdoors, Scotland has plenty of beautiful countryside to explore and wildlife to discover.
The name Eilean Donan, or island of Donan, is most probably called after the 6th century Irish Saint, Bishop Donan who came to Scotland around 580 AD.
The first fortified structure was not built on the island until the early 13th century as a defensive measure, protecting the lands of Kintail (part of the ancient territory of the Lord of the Isles) against the Vikings  raiders.
Eilean Donan offered the perfect defensive position.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/student-support-wellbeing:
We are committed to ensuring that every student fulfils their academic potential while studying with us at UWS.
Our Funding and Advice team can help you plan ahead financially for your time as a student.
UWS have a range of services to support your during your studies and help you achieve success.
We are committed to ensuring that every student gets the most out of their university experience, regardless of their personal circumstances.
UWS is committed to Widening Access and works on many pre-entry initiatives to encourage applicants from all backgrounds to study with us.
UWS is committed to widening access and providing opportunities for all and activily supports care-experienced, carer or estranged students.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/blog:
Hear from our inspiring community of students and staff as they share their #LifeAtUWS
I’m Alesha, and I’m halfway through my Sport and Exercise Science degree at UWS.
Check out this blog from Team UWS Sport President, Freya, on sport at UWS
My journey to UWS wasn’t the most typical.
I still remember sitting in a lecture hall in my Finnish Uni thinking – “this isn’t really where I want to be”.
My Experience Traveling to Centennial College
Accepted an offer to join UWS?
We've created a quick list of tasks to check off before starting your studies at UWS!
Connor McDonald, a PhD Student in the School of Health and Life Sciences at UWS, shares his journey as a Dementia Care PhD student!
North American student, Fiona Finchem, blogs about the highlights of her trip to UWS as part of North Carolina State University's Global Leadership Minor (GLM) programme.
Now you have your offer to study at UWS, we share our tips on how to make the most of an Offer Holder Day!
Whether you're a current student or thinking about joining UWS, our Student Funding team give their tips on to help save precious pennies.
Anna Munro gives us an insight into her day in the life as a 3rd year Applied Bioscience and Zoology student at UWS.
We share our recommendations on where to get the best coffee in Paisley!
Our Wellbeing team share some ways you can improve your wellbeing while studying at UWS.
Our top picks of the best places for vegan and vegetarian food near UWS campuses.
Kennagh Spowart tells us about a week in the life of a PhD Performance Student at UWS.
Check out our top tips for things to do around the UWS campuses that won't break the bank!
Interested in travelling as a student?
UWS PhD student,  Kennagh Spowart, shares her experiences, hints and tips for how to go about it!
Check out our blog by Daniel Muravsky, Senior Lecturer in Marketing at UWS, who talks about inclusivity and fostering a safe environment for students at university.
From volunteering to joining a University Society, here our ideas on how to make the most of your time at UWS.
Considering PhD study?
UWS student, Kennagh Spowart, explains how studying for a PhD can benefit your future and career.
Check out our recommendations of the best places to enjoy live music in and around our UWS campuses.
The UWS Graduate Apprenticeship (GA) team explain what makes the UWS GA programme so unique.
Enjoy!
Euan Johnstone, UWS IT Desktop Analyst and EDI Champion, blogs about the UN Women campaign, 16 Days of Action.
Heather Hudson shares how UWS Library is celebrating LGBTQ+ History Month.
Our UWS Open Days give you the chance to find out more about our courses and discover what your #LifeAtUWS could look like.
The UWS Careers Service team share their top tips and advice when it comes to job-hunting a sustainable employer.
From local 10K races to scenic trail runs, check out our tips for the best local runs near our campuses.
We’re sharing our top tips on how to look after your fitness and wellbeing as a UWS student.
Emeritus Professor Henry Maitles and Dr Andrew Killen, UWS and Vision Schools, have written a blog to commemorate Holocaust Memorial Day 2025.
UWS's Retro Games is a fabulous and fun facility to boost student experience, wellbeing, and help build a real sense of community on campus.
Discover what's happening on our official UWS social media accounts, including TikTok, Instagram and Facebook!
Share your posts with the hashtag, #LifeAtUWS
Follow UWS on socials
Are you a current student at UWS, keen to develop your writing skills?
Then we want to hear from you!
We're looking for student bloggers to tell us about their #LifeAtUWS.
Email your blog ideas to:
digital@uws.ac.uk
Our friendly team will be in touch to chat about your ideas.
Your blog could end up published on the UWS website and across our social media accounts.
Our #LifeAtUWS blog is open to all students currently studying at UWS.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/events:
{{ result.EventDate | date : 'd' }} {{ result.EventDate | date : 'MMM' }}
{{campus}}{{$last ?
{{ result.EventStartTime }} - {{ result.EventEndTime }}

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/research:
Visit The UWS Academic Portal to find out more about our academic staff and their globally relevant work.
Our vision for UWS is to be among the global leaders of excellent, relevant and purposeful research aligned with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.
We are proud of our signature research capabilities, which are central to developing innovations with global societal impact, changing the lives of communities across the world.
Explore more about UWS research activities, impact, strategic themes, multi-disciplinary and interdisciplinary areas, and environment.
UWS was also ranked 26th in the world for impact on reducing inequalities (Sustainable Development Goal 10).
In the Times Higher Education (THE) Awards 2024 UWS were recognised for our pioneering work with FIDO Tech to develop game-changing AI technology that detects underground water leaks.
This internationally impactful Knowledge Transfer Partnership project represents an industry-first and is revolutionising existing practices.
It's preventing billions of litres of water being lost from pipeline networks globally, tackling climate change and addressing United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 6, 9, 11 and 17.
Our partnerships with business, industry and the public and voluntary sectors, worldwide, are exemplary.
Our research and innovation flourishes through these strong collaborations.
For example, working with Phoenix Instinct we developed a ground-breaking ultralight wheelchair, which led to the company winning a $1 million global competition.
Andrew Slorance, Phoenix Instinct
We help our industry partners find solutions, bringing together cutting-edge research expertise, knowledge exchange and an array of bespoke research facilities.
This results in research and innovation that has a tangible and remarkably positive impact on society, our planet and the economy.
Find out more about exciting research projects and partnerships and the impact they have on business, communities and international research.
Scotland’s care sector needs a cultural overhaul to improve the quality of work and care, according to interviews with front-line workers compiled in a new report from UWS researchers
The documentary Colours of the Alphabet, produced by Professor Nick Higgins of the School of Business & Creative Industries, was screened across Africa in 2018.
UWS academics have discovered the world’s first treatment for serious eye condition, Acanthamoeba keratitis (AK), which affects millions of people across the globe annually.
Phoenix Instinct designs, develops and sells innovative mobility equipment giving greater independence for wheelchair users.
University of the West of Scotland (UWS) and St Mirren Football Club signed a Memorandum of Understanding in September 2024, demonstrating their shared commitment to boosting innovation, community pri...
Founded in 2013, the Alzheimer Scotland Centre for Policy and Practice is an innovative partnership between UWS and Alzheimer Scotland, providing a high-quality environment for applied research, educa...
UWS strives to create a world class research environment in which staff and students can be supported, can collaborate with colleagues and can achieve their full potential.
UWS is fully committed to the UK Concordat to support the Career Development of Researchers which sets out clear standards that research staff can expect from the University.
It aims to improve the employment and support for research careers in the UK and provides a framework for career development based around the Concordat principles.
More on UWS and the Researcher Development Concordat
UWS is committed to ensuring and promoting gender equality.
The University’s plans for gender equality are embedded within a range of initiatives, reports and action plans in line with our mainstreamed approach to equality, diversity and inclusion.
The University’s Gender Equality Plan (GEP) is approved annually by the Vice-Chancellor’s Executive.
It outlines how UWS meets the European Commission eligibility criterion through Athena Swan, our Public Sector Equality Duty requirements and reports, and broader Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) work.
Tuesday 01-07-2025
New research from University of the West of Scotland (UWS) has found a way to monitor people’s health without touching them, by using data gathered from sensors in a room.
Monday 30-06-2025
The UWS-Oxfam Partnership fund is funding a study exploring the role of unpaid carers who support people affected by alcohol and drug use.
Friday 07-02-2025
A recent survey revealed that 80% of teachers involved in the Vision Schools Scotland programme reported significant improvements in their motivation and confidence when teaching about the Holocaust.
Tuesday 22-10-2024
The underrepresentation of women’s health in research is being addressed in a new initiative by University of the West of Scotland.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/research/research-institutes-centres-groups:
Our research centres, institutes, groups, are advancing research and knowledge exchange using expertise and resources from across the University to tackle the United Nations Global Goals .
Alzheimer Scotland Centre for Policy and Practice (ASCPP)

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/research/united-nations-sustainable-development-goals:
UWS has committed to placing the SDGs at the heart of our Strategy 2030.
Set by the United Nations General Assembly, the Sustainable Development Goals or Global Goals are a collection of 17 interlinked global goals designed to be a "blueprint to achieve a better and more sustainable future for all" by the year 2030.
In the Times Higher Education (THE) Impact Rankings 2025, UWS has been ranked  in the world’s top 300 universities for sustainable development.
“We’re incredibly proud to have achieved this ranking, recognising our impact in reducing inequalities.
To find out how UWS is responding to this urgent call for action through research, navigate to the individual sustainable development goals icons, below.
Globally the number of people living in extreme poverty declined from 36 per cent in 1990 to 10 per cent in 2015.
But the pace of change is decelerating and the COVID-19 crisis risks reversing decade.
After decades of steady decline, the number of people who suffer from hunger – as measured by the prevalence of undernourishment – began to slowly increase again in 2015.
Need content for preview text (duplicated from Goal 2 on WayBack)
Education enables upward socioeconomic mobility and is a key to escaping poverty.
Over the past decade, major progress was made towards increasing access to education and school enrolment rates...
Gender equality is not only a fundamental human right, but a necessary foundation for a peaceful, prosperous and sustainable world.
While substantial progress has been made in increasing access to clean drinking water and sanitation, billions of people—mostly in rural areas—still lack these basic services.
The world is making progress towards Goal 7, with encouraging signs that energy is becoming more sustainable and widely available.
Sustained and inclusive economic growth can drive progress, create decent jobs for all and improve living standards.
Inclusive and sustainable industrialisation, together with innovation and infrastructure, can unleash dynamic and competitive economic forces that generate employment and income.
Reducing inequalities and ensuring no one is left behind are integral to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals.
The world is becoming increasingly urbanised.
Since 2007, more than half the world’s population has been living in cities, and that share is projected to rise to 60 per cent by 2030.
Worldwide consumption and production- a driving force of the global economy - rest on the use of the natural environment and resources in a way that continue to have destructive impacts on the planet.
Climate change is affecting every country on every continent.
It is disrupting national economies and affecting lives.
Weather patterns are changing, sea levels are rising...
The ocean drives global systems that make the Earth habitable for humankind.
Our rainwater, drinking water, weather, climate, coastlines, much of our food, and even the oxygen in the air we breathe.
Nature is critical to our survival: nature provides us with our oxygen, regulates our weather patterns, pollinates our crops, produces our food, feed and fibre.
Conflict, insecurity, weak institutions and limited access to justice remain a great threat to sustainable development.
The SDGs can only be realised with strong global partnerships and cooperation.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/research/ref-2021:
The Research Excellence Framework (REF) is the UK’s system for assessing the excellence of research in higher education institutions.
The main purpose of REF is to assess the quality of UK research and inform the selective allocation of core research funding grants to universities by the four UK higher education funding bodies: the Department for Economy, Northern Ireland (DfE) , the Higher Education Funding Council for Wales (HEFCW) , Research England and the Scottish Funding Council (SFC) .
The results of REF 2021 were announced publicly on 12 May 2022.
Ninety percent of our research was world-leading, internationally excellent or recognised internationally.
REF feeds directly into our strategy and vision for the future of research at UWS and a considerable amount of work went into our submission exercise.
REF offers a partial window into the overall research performance of UWS and the exercise is centred on the work of expert panels who assess research outputs , research impact and research environment :
REF provides a great opportunity for reflection and review, in line with our mission and values set out in Strategy 2025 to support excellent, relevant, and purposeful research, aligned with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.
As an institution, UWS’s strategic direction is to develop purposeful research and innovation which addresses major global challenges and is delivered at a scale and intensity that ensures sustainable impact, globally.
The UWS REF2021 Code of Practice presents the University’s approach for submission to REF2021, complying with equality and diversity legislation and providing a transparent explanation of our REF2021 submission.
The purpose of the REF2021 Code of Practice is principally to cover the following processes:
The funding bodies required all institutions to conduct an Equality Impact Assessment (EIA) on their policy and procedures for identifying staff with significant responsibility for research (where applicable), determining research independence and for selecting outputs for the REF submission.
UWS submitted its REF2021 EIA together with the final version of the UWS REF2021 Code of Practice (see above).

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/research/doctoral-college:
UWS has almost 600 postgraduate research students (PhD, DBA, ProfD, MPhil and MRes).
Therefore, to better address career progression from PGR studies to academic and non-academic careers, Doctoral College enables:
Regulatory Framework
Code of Practice Booklet 2024 to 2025 (PDF)
DC Role and Responsibilities Lead Supervisor leaflet 2023
DC Role and Responsibilities Other Supervisor leaflet 2023
Doctoral College Handbook 2025 (PDF)
PGR Progress Monitoring  Reviews leaflet 2023
Role and responsibilities Examiners leaflet 2023
Thesis submission and Nomination of Examiners takes place on Skillsforge .
Forms used for student Viva Voce are available below:
UWS PhS Viva Forms
PhD PER PhD JER PhD NEC PhD CMC
UWS DProf Viva Forms
DProf PER DProf JER DProf NEC DProf CMC
UWS DBA Viva Forms
DBA PER DBA JER DBA NEC DBA CMC
UWS MRes Examination Forms
MRes PEER MRes PIER MRes JER MRes - NEC MRes - CMC
UWS MPhil Viva Forms
MPhil JER MPhil CMC MPhil NEC
Behaviours, Interactions and Wellbeing will represent the three key pillars underpinning the collegiate postgraduate research environment.
In addition to the existing effective processes, Doctoral College continuously develops and maintains systems and practices to instil Ethical practices and professional behaviours.
This includes events to demonstrate and embed behavioural traits of highly successful students, supervisors, assessors and examiners.
Under the leadership of UWS Academy and the University Ethics Committee, Doctoral College helps in the development of training programmes to address ethical challenges across discipline-specific and interdisciplinary research.
During their postgraduate research studies, students need to interact with their peers across different disciplines, academic and industrial communities.
Doctoral College engages students at all campuses and partner institutions to jointly organise social events (e.g.
international dinners), academic conferences, industry seminars and interdisciplinary gatherings.
These wide-ranging interactions build and enhance social skills, confidence and promote UWS internationally as a Global University of choice known for creating a supporting and rewarding Research and Enterprise environment.
Postgraduate research students mayface numerous challenges during their studies which impact on their wellbeing.
Doctoral College, jointly with the University Student Services, SAUWS, Sports Centre and other stakeholders develops and runs a series of events, classes and respite sessions to maintain physical and mental wellbeing of our postgraduate research students.
The Doctoral College works collaboratively with academic Schools, research groups and other departments such as Research Services and Enterprise Services, supporting strategic collaborations across disciplines and Schools by combining expertise from within our thematic centres of excellence, and numerous partner organisations.
Within the Researcher Development Programme PGRs can expect to engage with experienced academic colleagues, fellow PGRs, and a wide range of professional services specialists through seminars and events designed to enhance your research experience at UWS.
Training and development activity is underpinned by the Vitae Researcher Development Framework and takes a cohort-based approach, allowing participants to undertake activities that support their PhD journey and career development.
Doctoral College will be relaunching the Researcher Development Programme for PGRs in 2024/25.
Visit the MS Teams space via the link below to keep up to date with scheduled training activities and seminars for PGR students.
Here you will find links to register for all Doctoral College training and events.
As a PGR at UWS you have full access to the Research Skills Toolkit and our partner programmes facilitated by colleagues from University of East Anglia , which are encouraged for those studying part-time.
UWS PGR Teams Page All research students are expected to engage in the programme during which you will gain a range of valuable skills in addition to the in-depth knowledge and understanding of your research topic.
Skills development has a critical part to play in your employability – it is well recognised that employers both within and outwith academia place great importance in, and recognise the value of, developed transferable skills in prospective employees.
By planning and undertaking the right training and thinking about your professional and personal development you can significantly improve your employability.
All research student progression is recorded in our progression recording platform, Skillsforge .
This platform allows you to view your future milestones, expected end date and submit your 6 month/Annual Report/Transfer Event (if applicable).
You will also submit applications for interruption or extension via this platform if required.
All full-time students are asked to submit a monthly supervision report on Skillsforge , with part-time students submitting this a minimum of once every 2 months.
Please log into Skillsforge to familiarise yourself with the platform once available.
To submit a Supervisory Meeting Report, please select ‘Supervision’, then ‘Create a new Supervisory Meeting Report’.
Please ensure you scroll right to the bottom of the form once you have added details of your recent supervision meeting, then tick your name, and press the green ‘sign’ button, then submit the report.
This will automatically pass to your Lead Supervisor for comments/actions for next meeting and these will be emailed to you for information.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/research/trusted-research:
The term ' Trusted Research ' is a campaign by the UK's National Protective Security Authority ( NPSA ) who use the concept to:
As we undertake and collaborate in global research, it is important that we recognise the risks which may be associated with international collaboration.
These risks can include:
Many of these risks, particularly in the context of international collaboration, can be described as ‘security related’ issues.
The UK and other national governments are taking an increasingly active interest in security related issues, including where they arise (or are perceived to arise) through research cooperation between universities and other organisations.
Universities UK define security related issues as:
‘an umbrella term that describes a broad range of issues and risks that are associated with internationalisation, that can be broadly grouped into two categories: (i) attempts by overseas/external actors or those acting on their behalf to illegitimately acquire academic research and expertise; and/or (ii) interfere with academic discourse.
“Universities must manage security-related issues and risks.
If left unmanaged, these risks may impact reputation and values; people; campuses; and education and research partnerships of the UK HE sector.”
In the UK, principles and concepts have been developed, along with tools and materials to provide specific support to help to identify and address potential risks.
These are contained in the Trusted Researcher Guidance .
Trusted Researcher principles inform and guide a range of important issues, subjects and actions, all of which play a part in the overall culture and application of Trusted Researcher.
Concepts connected with Trusted Researcher include, GDPR, cyber security, IP and export control.
NPSA have produced a range of guidance materials, which provide a series of guides covering a range of Trusted Researcher situations .
The purpose of this guidance is to provide tools for researchers and academics to identify, understand and to manage issues or risks which may arise during international research and collaboration.
Trusted Research applies to anyone who has international collaborations.
It is particularly relevant to researchers in:
Whilst there is direct relevance of Trusted Researcher in the areas outlined above, researchers in all areas are encouraged to review the concepts of Trusted Researcher broadly and to familiarise themselves with the principles outlined above.
Issues such as GDPR and information security, whilst relevant broadly, are specifically addressed in other University policies.
Individuals, with the support of the Schools Research Services department, are encouraged to carry out the NPSA Trusted Research Evaluation Framework in order to gauge the level of risk involved with their international collaborations.
The NPSA website contains a range of useful guides and checklists for use in a variety of different research and/or collaboration situations.
These include materials and guidance relating to travel and attendance at international seminars and events .
Please consult the UKRI Trusted Research FAQs to provide further information and guidance.
The protection of research, innovation, including sensitive information and use, and IP are key issues in international research and collaboration.
Further key issues include reputational risk to you and the University, the mis use of research and its applications and/or interference by way of malign influence such as limitations on research and dissemination of knowledge.
International collaboration takes on many forms including funding of research, participation in research consortia, informal academic interactions, overseas visits and international conferences, exchange of data, information, research materials and equipment, hosting of short and long-term visitors and recruitment of staff and students.
When considering security related issues in these (and other) forms of interactions, three main areas should be considered before proceeding:
Key messages to consider:
Below are examples of some of the questions and issues to consider in assessing risk.
Who’s funding your research?
It is the responsibility of each researcher to check their funding sources:
How well do you know your research partners?
Researchers should look into the background and connections of their research partners and be clear on:
How is your research being used?
Research may be applied in different ways that weren’t intended by the researcher.
It is important to think about how research results could be used and consider how to prevent partners or other people with access to research from doing this inappropriately
Guidance and help are available from Schools Research Services department and from the UWS Trusted Researcher Champion, Helen Kennedy (Head of Research) supported by Veoeani Krishna (Contract Manager).
Further information
NPSA have a number of videos which explain , comment on and are of use in considering Trusted Researcher and its application to international research and collaboration and reputational risk .
Certain legal frameworks are applicable to international research collaborations:
UWS is committed to complying with export controls.
The University aims to raise awareness within the institution of export control regulations and set out a Procedure on Export Control and Sanctions .
It is the responsibility of each individual researcher to ensure that they do not export controlled items without an appropriate licence.
Researchers are expected to familiarise themselves with this procedure.
The National Security and Investment Act ( NS&I Act ) came into force on 4 January 2022.
The Act gives the government the power to review and intervene in certain transactions that involve the acquisition of an entity or asset in (or closely linked to) 17 specified sectors of the economy, that could damage the UK’s national security.
The government will be able to enforce certain conditions on an acquisition.
If necessary, it will also have the power to undo or stop it.
Universities should be aware of the NS&I Act when collaborating with other parties to acquire, sell or develop certain qualifying entities and assets.
The government has powers to assess an acquisition whether it is completed, in progress or in contemplation stage, if it reasonably suspects that it might give rise to a national security risk.
Additional Information
Helen Kennedy, Head of Research, is the Trusted Research Champion for UWS, supported by the Research Services Department.
Training on Trusted Research issues and further assistance is available.
Please contact researchservices@uws.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/open-days-info-sessions/undergraduate-open-days-and-events:
Our Open Days and information sessions are a chance to experience what it’s like to study at UWS, and explore the options available if you’re considering student accommodation.
20 & 27 September / 09 & 18 October
Lanarkshire / Ayr / Paisley / Dumfries Campus
Join us at our Autumn Open Days and experience #LifeAtUWS.
These events provide a perfect opportunity to find out everything you need to know about studying at UWS, and we'd love to welcome you to one or more of our campuses.
Chat to staff and students, tour our facilities, and hear more about your course(s) of interest.
See our handy guide if you need help deciding which Campus Open Day is best to attend?
20 September - Lanarkshire Campus 27 September - Ayr Campus 09 October - Dumfries Campus 18 October - Paisley Campus
9 - 29 November
Join us at our undergraduate Subject Showcase events taking place in November 2025.
These events give you the perfect opportunity to get in-person experience of your subject and course of choice before the UCAS application deadline on 14 January 2026.
We’ll be offering tours, interactive activities and much more to let you see what studying at UWS is really like.
Paisley Campus Subject showcase - 8 November
Lanarkshire Campus Subject showcase - 13 November
Dumfries Campus Subject showcase - 27 November
Ayr Campus Subject showcase - 29 November
CHat to a student - Uws Unibuddy

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/current-students/student-enrolment-and-inductions:
All you need to know about getting started at UWS.
I am delighted you’ve decided to join our University - you’ve made a great choice.
UWS has a long and proud history creating life-changing higher educational opportunities, conducting cutting-edge, impactful research, and engaging in global partnerships which benefit wider society.
Our aim is to help you realise your potential as a global citizen, ready to make a difference for yourself and others.
Our approach to learning and teaching, is designed for today’s modern student, where the content and learning methods are based on the most up-to-date research.
On campus, you can see our commitment to providing sector-leading learning opportunities with some of the most advanced facilities in the UK.
Look forward to seeing you on one of our campuses.
Professor James Miller FRSE
Principal and Vice-Chancellor, UWS
You will receive an email from the University when it is time to enrol.
There are different timings for enrolment depending on whether you are a new or returning student, so keep an eye out for this email.
We would encourage you to enrol as soon as possible when you receive this email, to ensure a smooth start to your studies.
New Student enrolment RETURNING Student enrolment
As a new student you are required to attend a School welcome session as well as your programme induction.
At your School welcome session, you’ll be able to pick up some freebies, meet key contacts in your School and find out all the important info to help your student life at UWS get off to a great start!
We’d strongly encourage you to take part to get your academic year off to the best possible start.
Programme AND SCHOOL inductions
At a University-level there will be a range of events happening during Welcome Week that will allow you to mingle with students from every School and subject area.
Join in and have fun!
WEst FEST and Fresher's Fair
Everything you need to know about your inductions and UWS.
Everything you need to know about enrolling at UWS
Induction is a really important part of your university journey and there will be opportunities for you to engage in activities throughout this period.
Get to know UWS as you prepare for your new academic year.
With campus information, insight into our health and wellbeing support and more.
If you're joining us from abroad, check out this page for some extra information specific to you.
Find out what your learning and teaching experience will be like with us.
Support for online platforms and systems
Each Academic Year has three terms - Term 1, 2 and 3, respectively.
These begin in September, January and May each year.
You can see the latest term and start dates below.
START DATES FOR ACADEMIC YEAR 2025/26 (PDF)
We’re looking for enthusiastic UWS students to join our team as student ambassadors.
You can earn money, gain valuable skills, inspire prospective students and most importantly, have fun!
Become a student ambassador
The Student Hub are your first point of contact for support or questions that you may have during your student journey at UWS.
There is a Student Hub on every campus to visit in-person and you can also contact the team by phone, WhatsApp and through the topdesk portal.
WhatsApp Chat - 0141 848 3998
Hub Portal - uws.topdesk.net
Enrolment enquiries – enrol@uws.ac.uk
Induction enquiries – hub@uws.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research-at-uws:
Join a world-leading postgraduate research community driven by curiosity, innovation, and real-world impact.
Whether you’re looking to deepen your expertise, tackle global challenges, or shape the future of your field, we provide the support, resources, and industry connections to help you succeed.
Explore our research opportunities, connect with expert supervisors, and take the next step in your academic journey.
UWS offers a wide range of postgraduate research degrees designed to help you make a meaningful impact in your field.
Whether you choose a Master of Research (MRes), Master of Philosophy (MPhil), Doctor of Philosophy (PhD), or a Professional Doctorate, you’ll be supported by expert academics and industry partnerships that enhance your research experience.
Explore research subject areas
How to apply
The benefits of a UWS PhD are significant but don’t take our word for it.
Hear from one of our research students on why the UWS is the perfect choice for those wanting to undertake a research degree.
Conor, PhD in Dementia Care
We offer a range of fully funded PhD studentships across all academic schools, providing financial support to help you focus on your research.
In addition to studentships, you may also be eligible for other funding options, such as scholarships, loans, and external grants.
Studentships
.
The University offers a 20% tuition fee discount for UWS alumni or UWS undergraduate students in their final year of study, who wish to progress to full-time postgraduate study at UWS.
This includes postgraduate research (MRes / MPhil / PhD) studies.
UWS students wishing to progress from a postgraduate taught to a full-time postgraduate research degree are eligible for the offer.
Postgraduate Tuition Fee Offer
When you start a research degree at UWS, you automatically become a member of our Doctoral College - joining a vibrant community of almost 600 researchers.
You’ll benefit from expert guidance, training, and events designed to support your research journey.
UWS Doctoral College
PhD Performance student Kennagh shares a week in her life at UWS!
Read Kennagh's blog
Beata Ciesluk, PhD student, the first UWS recipient of the Robertson Medal for her research into drug use in Scotland.
Read more about the award
Explore our research case studies and the impact we have made in Scotland and beyond.
90% of research at UWS classed as world-leading, internationally excellent, or recognised internationally
The University of the West of Scotland is committed to promoting and upholding the highest quality academic and ethical standards in all scientific research activities.
Trusted Research aims to secure the integrity of the system of international research collaboration, which is vital to the continued success of the UK’s research and innovation sector.
UWS has set the vision to be recognised as a world-leading university based on supporting excellent, relevant and purposeful research aligned with the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals.
In the Times Higher Education Impact Rankings 2024, UWS was the 16th most impactful university in the world for ‘reducing inequalities’ (UN Sustainable Development Goal 10).
Our research will continue to address major global challenges and will be delivered in multi-disciplinary teams across the institution
Sustainable Development Goals
We also have a number of students who can give first-hand experience of what it is like to be a part of postgraduate research at UWS.
GEt in touch with our team
Tuesday 12-11-2024
A University of the West of Scotland (UWS) academic has been appointed to join the Barvalipe Academy.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/i-found-my-place/anna-applied-bioscience-zoology-student:
Anna studies on our BSc (Hons) Applied Bioscience & Zoology programme at Lanarkshire campus.
Anna found her place at UWS – find yours!
Speak to a member of our Applicant Enquiry Team:

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/i-found-my-place/lauren-adult-nursing-student:
Lauren studies on our BSc Adult Nursing at Lanarkshire campus.
Lauren found her place at UWS - find yours!

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/i-found-my-place/kurt-midwifery-student:
Kurt studies on our Pre-registration Midwifery programme at Lanarkshire campus.
Kurt found his place at UWS – find yours!

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/chat:
Students and staff are unable to answer questions on the status of your application.
For application information, please email our UK or international teams.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/business:
Find all the knowledge you need.
Our internationally-renowned academics can share expertise in a wealth of topics.
Our Centre for Continuing Professional Development has a growing catalogue of courses.
The Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) scheme is a flagship open innovation programme from Innovate UK, helping businesses to innovate and grow for the past 50 years.
Let UWS help you to secure support for collaborative research project.
UWS can help support you transform your business ideas into commercial reality.
We offer dedicated support for entrepreneurs.
UWS experts can help your business by assisting with problem-solving, analysis, commercialisation of intellectual property.
CMA enables our students, graduates and staff to contribute to the development and growth of the sector and to engage directly with creative industries via innovative projects and partnerships.
UWS has been growing its high value spin out portfolio since 2018 when we launched our first high growth spin out company (Novosound Ltd).
In 2022, UWS led a pioneering project to deliver support and training to enable organisations across South Ayrshire to meet the national Net Zero goals.
UWS is dedicated to equipping learners and professionals across the globe with the skills and knowledge needed to thrive in an ever-changing world.
Digital efforts across Ayrshire were previously fragmented, with councils, businesses, and academic institutions working in isolation, leading to duplicated efforts, missed opportunities, and gaps in ...
Our internationally-renowned academics can share expertise in a wealth of topics – spanning engineering, technology, business, education, healthcare, sport, science, the media and social sciences.
Are you looking for information relating to our full-time and part-time academic business degree courses (BA, BAcc, MBA, MSc, MRes, MPhil, MProf, DBA, PhD, DProf) which are run through the highly acclaimed, UWS School of Business & Creative Industries?
Our strong links with industry and world-class research underpin our degree courses which are delivered on each of our five campuses and through many partners across the globe.
Business Bachelor's Degrees
Business Master's Degrees
Research Degrees
If you are looking to contact Business & Enterprise Services at UWS, then you can use the general details or seek specialist contacts as follows:
Business & Enterprise Services Lord Smith of Kelvin International Research & Enterprise Centre University of the West of Scotland Paisley Campus Paisley Renfrewshire PA1 2BE
Email: enterprise@uws.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/news/welfare-benefits-system-failing-those-with-pmdd-new-study-reveals:
The study by academics at University of the West of Scotland (UWS) has revealed the negative experiences of people who have applied for a social security benefit – particularly the Adult Disability Payment and the Personal Independence Payment – to support them with their PMDD symptoms.
Within the UK, there are approximately 22 million people of reproductive age, with approximately 1.2 million living within Scotland.
PMDD is a severe hormone-based mood disorder, which affects 1 in 20 women, with 1 in 2 self-harming, 1 in 3 attempting suicide and the majority of sufferers having suicidal thoughts.
The condition causes debilitating symptoms in the latter half of the menstrual cycle, impacting all aspects of life, with some people requiring support for daily living.
Despite this, the current welfare system has been criticised for not providing support for those with a fluctuating condition, such as PMDD.
Currently, in the UK, people can apply for financial support if they live with a condition which impacts their daily living, and they are assessed on their eligibility for support based on number of criteria, including that the condition must impact someone more than 50% of the time.
However, this ‘over 50% rule’ has been deemed as unfair and an inaccurate way of measuring someone’s circumstances and specific needs.
The research found that people with PMDD experienced a lack of a trauma-informed approach, inconsistent assessment and decision outcomes, difficulty evidencing their fluctuating condition, and that people were unaware or experienced a lack of support for the application process during their various interactions with the welfare system.
The interdisciplinary team involved in the research was led by Mhairi Campbell at University of the West of Scotland, with other contributors including Lynsay Matthews and Eileen Harkess-Murphy from UWS, and Julie Riddell from the University of Glasgow.
Mhairi Campbell, Lead Researcher
Lynsay Matthews added: “We know that 1 in 20 women and people who menstruate will be living with PMDD, meaning around 1.1 million people in the UK / 60,000 people in Scotland will be living with PMDD.
This represents a huge proportion of women who might be experiencing difficulties accessing the support they need to navigate the challenges of living with this condition.”
The research has made ten recommendations, including:
You can access the full research report here .
This research aligns with the UN Sustainable Development Goals on Good Health and Wellbeing (SDG 3) , Gender Equality (SDG 5) , Reduced Inequalities (SDG 10) , and Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions (SDG 16) .

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/news/new-study-shows-how-thermal-imaging-can-help-protect-scotland-s-heritage:
Tuesday 19 08 2025
Led by a team of UWS researchers working with local volunteers from Ardrossan Castle Heritage Society, the project used a £3,000 thermal camera and free software to detect damp areas inside the stone walls of the north-east tower, which are invisible to the naked eye.
Moisture, especially if it remains undetected, is one of the biggest threats to historic buildings.
It can enter in several ways, by being drawn up from the ground, blown in by rain, or forming from condensation.
As well as encouraging the growth of algae and mould, water can act as a solvent for the transmission of salts within the fabric of a building, which may lead to destructive freezing and thawing cycles.
Exposed structures suffer from surface weathering via erosion caused by wind-blown rain, which allows liquid water to penetrate deeply into the building fabric.
The thermal imaging technique used by the researchers finds this hidden water damage by measuring heat differences across the building’s surface.
Damp areas retain heat differently from dry stone, making it possible to see where moisture has seeped in.
The study also picked up subtle differences in how the ancient lime mortar and stone react to temperature changes, providing valuable clues about how the structure was built and how it's weathering over time.
The researchers hope that this project could provide the foundation for a sustainable, community-based model as those trained in the techniques can go on to train others.
Alison Montgomery, Chair of ACHS, said, "Ardrossan Castle Heritage Society were delighted to work with Dr Bowry and Dr Simpson on this valuable community learning project and are proud to see our efforts being recognised in this new publication within the Archaeological Prospection journal.
"We believe partnership projects such as ours, that link local communities with academic researchers have the potential to drive community regeneration efforts by upskilling local volunteers alongside making valuable contributions to science.
"We are eager to see other heritage organisations use this inexpensive technology and would recommend any group interested in maintaining and preserving Scotland’s built heritage environment for the enjoyment of all future generations to reach out to the research team at UWS."
Read the full paper here.
This research aligns with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDGs), specifically Goal 11: Sustainable Cities and Communities.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/news/new-study-to-explore-if-gaelic-gives-school-leavers-in-scotland-career-advantage:
Thursday 07 08 2025
A new study that will explore if Gaelic Medium Education (GME) gives school leavers in Scotland an advantage when it comes to their career is being carried out by researchers at University of the West of Scotland (UWS).
GME is immersive Gaelic-language state education, which is currently available in 17 out of 32 Scottish local authorities.
In June this year, the Scottish Parliament passed the Scottish Languages Bill, which gives the Gaelic and Scots languages official status in Scotland and includes changes in relation to Gaelic and Scots education.
Dr Emma Bolger and Ann Morrison, from UWS will be working with teachers and careers advisers in GME schools and units to gather information from pupils on how they feel Gaelic will benefit them as they move into the world of work.
The project will take place this autumn in two phases comprising of group interviews with senior phase (S4-6) pupils in GME across several local authorities and an online survey asking GME school leavers aged 17-25 about the impact GME has had on their career decisions.
The study is funded by The Carnegie Trust for the Universities of Scotland via a Research Incentive Grant.
For more information about the project click here to visit the project site.
Any schools who would like their pupils to take part in the focus groups should contact the project organisers, via the project website, by Friday 29 August 2025.
This research aligns with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDGs), specifically Goal 4: Quality Education.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/news/health-and-social-care-leadership-course-launched-at-uws:
Wednesday 06 08 2025
With over 200,000 people working in the sector in Scotland, the new Continuing Professional Development (CPD) course Cultures and Leadership for Integration, is designed in direct response to growing recognition that Scotland’s integrated health and social care systems need not only structural reform but also stronger, more adaptive leadership based on shared culture and values.
A recent UWS-led independent review, which was commissioned by the Scottish Government and co-produced with sector leaders and people with lived experience, found that despite structural changes, truly integrated working remains elusive in many parts of Scotland.
The report, Cultures and Leadership for Integration , called for a radical shift in how integrated services are led and delivered, emphasising a need for cultural alignment, collaboration and local leadership.
The new course developed by UWS’s Centre for Continuing Professional Development tackles these issues head-on.
Suzanne McQuade, Senior CPD Manager at UWS
Through a blend of online workshops, self-directed learning and practical exercises, the course will support participants to explore leadership in multi-agency environments, assess their own leadership styles, and build skills to influence culture and collaboration across organisational boundaries.
The course is aimed at anyone working within health and social care integration in Scotland – from NHS and local authority staff to those in the third sector or community-based roles.
It is particularly suitable for:
· Frontline team leaders
· Managers involved in cross-sector projects
· Strategic planners and integration leads
· Professionals navigating change within integrated systems
Delivered online for maximum flexibility, the course requires just 12 hours of study over six weeks, enabling progression to further study if desired.
Participants can choose from two upcoming cohorts starting in September and November 2025.
Funding from the Scottish Government also means a limited number of fully funded places are available for eligible applicants based in Scotland and working in or with integrated care systems.
To apply or to find out more about eligibility for funding, please visit: https://cpd.uws.ac.uk/w/courses/369-cultures-and-leadership-for-integration-funding-available
The course also supports progress toward the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDGs) , particularly Goal 3: Good Health and Well-being Goal 4: Quality Education and Goal 17: Partnerships for the Goals , by fostering collaborative leadership and integrated approaches to health and social care delivery.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/news/uws-ktp-partnerships-named-finalists-in-national-innovation-awards:
Wednesday 23 07 2025
Two UWS Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTP) have been named as finalists in this year’s Innovate UK KTP Awards, recognising innovation and impact across UK academia and industry.
Ray Holder, former KTP Associate on UWS’s project with cultural technology platform Smartify, is shortlisted in the Future Leader Award category while the partnership with employment support organisation Routes to Work has been recognised in two categories: Changing the World Award and Best Knowledge Transfer Partnership.
Both projects demonstrate the vital role KTPs play in driving strategic growth, innovation, and transformation across sectors.
Former UWS student Ray Holder led an ambitious project to embed high-performance computing, extended reality, artificial intelligence, and cybersecurity capabilities into Smartify’s platform, helping the company enhance digital access to arts and culture and position itself for further growth in the cultural tourism sector.
His innovative work has included bringing to life never-before-seen photographs from Tower Bridge's opening 130 years ago; an interactive model for visitors to the Cutty Sark, helping them explore parts of the ship while they were closed for refurbishment; and a 3D model viewer that allows people to interact with sculptures and objects without the need for specialist hardware or extra apps.
Ray Holder, former KTP Associate, Smartify
Thanos Kokkiniotis, Founder and Director at Smartify, commented: “Ray’s energy, technical expertise and strategic mindset made a lasting impact on our platform and our team.
His work is a shining example of what’s possible when industry and academia come together with a shared vision for innovation.
“We’re delighted to see his talent recognised on this national stage.
It’s very well deserved.”
Meanwhile, UWS’s collaboration with Routes to Work, based in North Lanarkshire, has been shortlisted for two major accolades: Changing the World and Best Knowledge Transfer Partnership.
Already noteworthy for being the UK’s first third sector management KTP, the project focused on equipping Routes to Work’s leadership with advanced capabilities in strategic planning, econometric modelling, service innovation and organisational change.
The result is a stronger, smarter organisation delivering improved employment services for communities facing significant disadvantage.
Kate Clark, Chief Executive at Routes to Work
Dr Christine Reilly, Senior Lecturer in Business at UWS and Lead Academic on the project, said: “This was a model KTP grounded in real challenges and focused on lasting, evidence-based change.
It’s wonderful to see it acknowledged for both its impact and its ambition.”
The finalists will attend the KTP Awards Ceremony in Manchester on 28 October, part of the KTP 50 Conference celebrating 50 years of the UK’s Knowledge Transfer Partnership programme.
Commenting on the announcement of the nominations, Senior KTP Manager Stuart McKay said:
These projects align with UWS’s Strategy 2030 key goals: maximising student success; creating and applying new knowledge; and growing our global impact.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/news/project-supports-nurses-to-tackle-complex-healthcare-needs:
Selected and funded by the Royal Society of Edinburgh (RSE) as part of its spring research awards programme the project aims to evaluate the impact of an enhanced learning module delivered to around 1,500 new nurses, focused on preparing them for the real-life scenarios they will face when it comes to caring for a deteriorating older patient.
The team at UWS comprises Dr Steve Mullay as Principal Investigator, alongside Kevin Lang, Murray Sherriff-Short, Claire Brew and Kelly McCourtney from the School of Health and Life Sciences.
Dr Steve Mullay commented: “We are delighted to see our project selected by the Royal Society of Edinburgh.
Populations are growing older, and individual health and wellbeing needs are becoming more complex as a result.
As such, there is a recognised need to make processes of nursing care more person and context centred.
“This project aims to gain insights into how well-prepared newly Registered Nurses felt they were to face this, after undertaking a new module within our nursing degree.
The study will focus on two important skills within it: reliable and accurate patient assessment, and safe and effective intravenous medication administration, particularly in an acutely deteriorating patient in a fast-changing clinical situation.”
Dr Steve Mullay, Principal Investigator, UWS
The module uses enhanced scenario-based learning, in which the nursing students contextualise learning by applying it to realistic patient situations.
This study will use workshop discussions with the new Registered Nurses to gain insights into how well the module prepared them to function in today’s healthcare settings.
The findings will not only improve the module itself, but will be available to other educational programmes, contributing to better nursing practice overall.
Professor James Miller, Principal and Vice-Chancellor of UWS, who is also a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, said: “Congratulations to the team on receiving this recognition from the RSE for their important research project.
Focusing on the skills needs of the workforces our graduates enter is a key priority for us at UWS, and this project directly embodies that.
“The team have identified an opportunity to enhance the student learning experience to ensure they make an invaluable impact as new nurses in the care of their patients – at all stages of their lives.
The project also feeds into the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, particularly goal three: good health and wellbeing.”
Professor James Miller, Principal and Vice-Chancellor of UWS
The RSE’s Research Awards Programme runs twice a year in spring and autumn.
It aims to support Scotland’s research sector by nurturing promising talent, stimulating research in Scotland, and promoting international collaboration.
RSE Vice President, Research, Professor Anne Anderson OBE FRSE, commented: “The RSE's Research Awards Programme plays a vital role in strengthening Scotland's dynamic research community.
I do not doubt that the recipients of these prestigious RSE awards will advance knowledge and make meaningful contributions to Scottish society.
On behalf of the RSE, I congratulate these exceptional researchers and their international partners, and I eagerly anticipate the impact of their work.”
This research aligns with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDGs), specifically Goal 3: Good Health and Well-Being.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/events/2025/september/centre-for-migration-diaspora-citizenship-and-identity-conference-2025:
12 September
10:00
This conference aims to foster interdisciplinary dialogue and collaboration between early career scholars to address the complex issues surrounding migration, belonging, and making home among diverse migrant’s groups.
We invite any contribution that explores the transnational identit(ies) and senses of belonging among diverse migrant’s groups.
The conference themes include:
We invite abstracts of no more than 300 words, outlining the research question, methodology, and key findings.
Submissions should be sent by email to CMDCI@uws.ac.uk by 30 July, 2025.
All abstracts will be reviewed by the conference committee, and selected authors will be invited to present their papers at the conference.
An online registration portal will be available, allowing participants to register, submit abstracts, and pay conference fees.
Early bird discounts will be offered to encourage early registration, and free registration is offered for Masters students.
Registration
For more information, please contact the CMDCI Conference Committee at cmdci@uws.ac.uk
We look forward to your contributions and to welcoming you to an engaging and insightful conference at CMDCI!

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/events/2025/september/undergraduate-autumn-open-day-2025-lanarkshire-campus:
20 September
11:00 - 14:30
Come to our Autumn Open Day - Lanarkshire Campus and experience what student life could be like at UWS Lanarkshire.
Register for Open Day - Lanarkshire Campus
Our Open Day will give you the opportunity to find out more about UWS study options in Lanarkshire; including our industry-recognised degree programmes in Nursing, Midwifery, Life Sciences, Sports, Computing, Business, Education, Engineering, Social Science and much more.
Our dynamic Lanarkshire campus ensures students graduate having experienced ground-breaking learning and teaching.
There will be tours of the amazing facilities, including the gym, which is free for UWS students to use, as well as the labs and lecture halls.
Our award-winning Lanarkshire campus is home to some of the sector’s newest and most cutting-edge research facilities.
This includes Scotland’s highest-specification environmental chamber and amazing state-of-the-art sports science laboratories, as well the country’s newest simulated nursing and midwifery teaching environments.
We look forward to welcoming you!
From 11am at the Main Reception.
Location: The Street
This is the place to ask any questions you have about studying at UWS.
Throughout today’s event our friendly teams will be on-hand to chat to you.
·
Location: Auditorium
Time: 11am - 11.30am & 2pm - 2.30pm
At UWS, we put students first, and for that reason we have outstanding student support available throughout your studies.
Hear from our team on how we can support you during your time at university.
Location: Conference Room
Representatives from SAAS are attending our event to help you understand the funding process when applying for university.
Location: Boardroom
Time: 11.15am - 11.45am
Hear from our team about Work-based Learning and Graduate Apprenticeship courses available here at UWS.
Location: 1.1.11
Time: 1pm - 1.30pm & 2pm - 2.30pm
Our team are here to give you advice on how to make your application to university stand out from the crowd and give you the best chance of success.
Time: 1pm - 1.30pm
If you’re making the jump from college to university, our dedicated team are here to help you on that journey.
Join this session to find out more.
Location: Tours begin at the main reception
Time: 10.45am; 11.15am; 11.45am; 12.15pm; 12.45pm; 1.15pm; 1.45pm
Join one of our campus tours and check out our amazing facilities!
Tours will last 20 minutes.
Our Academic Schools will be delivering a range of programme level talks, tours of our amazing facilities, sample lectures and hands-on demonstrations to help you get a sense of what studying at UWS will be like.
Many of the sessions will be repeated to allow those who have an interest in more than one programme to attend multiple sessions.
They’ll also be available in The Atrium throughout the event to answer any questions you have.
From 11:45am
Programme overview
Location: 1.1.10
Time: 11.45am – 12.15pm & 1.30pm – 2pm
Location: 1.1.08
Chat with the Programme Leader about the course
Time: 11.45am – 1:00pm
Tour of facilities
Location: 3.0.06 (Starting in The Street)
Time: 1:00pm – 2:00pm
Location: 1.1.18
Location: 1.1.04
Programme overview & Interactive Activity
Location: 1.1.06
Location: 1.1.16
Location: Building 3, 2nd Floor, Nursing Simulation facilities
Time: 12.15pm – 12.45pm & 2pm – 2.30pm
Location: Building 3, 2nd Floor, Midwifery Simulation facilities
Location: Building 1, Paramedic Science area (beyond canteen)
Tour of Pre-Hospital Simulation Centre facilities
Location: 3.1.10
Tour of Sports Lab Facilities
Location: Building 3, 2nd Floor - Sport Labs
Location: 3.2.13
Location: 3.2.10a
Location: 3.2.01
Location: 3.2.10b
Tour of our state-of-the-art science labs
Location: Building 3, 3rd Floor - Science Labs
Time: 12.15pm - 12:45pm & 2:00pm - 2.30pm
@UniWestofScotland
@UniWestScotland
@uniwestscotland
TikTok - @UniWestScotland
11:00  - 14:30
University of the West of Scotland Lanarkshire Campus Stephenson Place Hamilton International Technology Park South Lanarkshire G72 0LH

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/events/2025/september/undergraduate-autumn-open-day-2025-ayr-campus:
27 September
Visit our Autumn Open Day - Ayr Campus for a whole host of interactive activities.
Our Open Day will give you a real flavour of what’s on offer at UWS and what it's like to study with us.
We look forward to welcoming you to our Autumn Open Day - Ayr Campus!
Register for Autumn Open Day - Ayr Campus
Close to town, on the banks of the River Ayr, the modern and dynamic Ayr campus is home to UWS degree courses including Education, Childhood Studies, Nursing, Commercial Music, Filmmaking & Screen Writing and much more.
We offer PGDE courses for those wanting to make the move into teaching and education.
Take a campus tour to see our learning and teaching facilities.
This includes our broadcast and recording studios, performance suites, simulation wards for practical nursing and health education and our campus gym, which is free for UWS students.
You'll also have the chance to meet some of our students and get their perspective on student life at UWS in Ayr.
Location: The Atrium
Location: Lecture Theatre 2
Location: GT29
Location: GT42
Location: GT29 (1pm) & GT42 (2pm)
Location: Starting at the Accommodation stand
Time: TBC, Please check with the accommodation stand
Check out our student residences which are just a few minutes’ walk from campus.
Location: GT36
Location: Music Studios
Location: TV Studio 1
Location: Lecture Theatre 3 (Cinema)
Location: Performance Studios
Location: Art Studio 2
Location: GT33
Location: GT34
Location: GT35
Location: 4th Floor Nursing Simulation Facilities
Programme overview and tour of facilities
Location: GT25
Time: 11.45am – 12.45pm & 1.30pm – 2.30pm
Facebook - @UniWestofScotland
X - @UniWestScotland
Instagram - @uniwestscotland
University of the West of Scotland Ayr Campus University Avenue Ayr KA8 0SX Please note parking is available.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/events/2025/october/undergraduate-autumn-open-day-2025-dumfries-campus:
9 October
17:00 - 19:00
Join us at our Dumfries Campus, for our Autumn Open Day.
Register for Open Day - Dumfries Campus
The Open Day will give you the opportunity to find out more about UWS study options in Dumfries in Childhood Studies, Computing Science, Business, Adult Nursing, Mental Health Nursing and Social Work.
Take a campus tour to see our learning and teaching facilities, including simulation wards for practical nursing and health education.
You'll also get the chance to meet some our students who study here, to get their perspective on student life at UWS in Dumfries.
At the Dumfries Open Day, you can also:
We look forward to welcoming you to our Dumfries Autumn Open Day.
Please note parking is available across the campus and is clearly signposted.
17:00  - 19:00
University of the West of Scotland Dumfries Campus Bankend Road Dumfries

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/events/2025/october/undergraduate-autumn-open-day-2025-paisley-campus:
18 October
Our largest campus, and a short train ride from Glasgow, UWS Paisley provides students with an exciting and inspiring learning environment.
Register for Autumn Open Day - Paisley Campus
The UWS Paisley Campus offers a range of courses and research opportunities in Business, Social Sciences, Technology and Computing, Engineering, Physical and Chemical Sciences, Health and Life Sciences.
At our Autumn Open Day, there'll be tours of the amazing facilities, enabling you to find out more about the innovative approach UWS takes to learning and teaching.
You'll be able to see for yourself the technology-rich, innovative learning and social spaces located across the lively campus.
Visit the modern, fully en-suite student accommodation, the gym, which is free for UWS students to use, and the Student Union, labs and lecture halls.
At the Paisley Autumn Open Day, you can:
We look forward to welcoming you to our Paisley Open Day.
Please note visitor parking is available all day with entry via Lady Lane entrance.
University of the West of Scotland, Paisley Campus, High Street, Paisley, PA1 2BE

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/events/2025/november/postgraduate-autumn-open-evening-2025:
6 November
16:00 - 19:00
Find your place at UWS!
16:00  - 19:00
Paisley Campus, University of the West of Scotland (UWS), High Street, Paisley, PA1 2BE Parking available all day via Lady Lane entrance

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/campuses/ayr-campus:
Opened in August 2011, the campus was developed in partnership with Scotland's Rural College (SRUC) and in consultation with Historic Scotland, Scottish Natural Heritage and the Scottish Wildlife Trust.
It provides Ayrshire with one of the UK's most modern, environmentally friendly and sustainable higher education learning facilities.
The campus design was inspired by the area's woodland surroundings and offers students a stunning space for study.
Find out more about getting to Ayr Campus and the options available to you.
Travelling to Ayr Campus
UWS Ayr Campus provides state-of-the-art facilities for UWS students and our project partners, Scotland's Rural University College (SRUC).
There’s also a great range of facilities for socialising, relaxing and having fun at UWS Ayr Campus.
From books and journals to an array of video and digital content, Ayr Campus' award-winning library houses an impressive range of resources and facilities.
The library also includes University devices for students to access the library catalogue, electronic services and other internet resources.
The lively Students' Union at Ayr Campus has an excellent events and entertainment schedule including live music, DJs and themed party nights.
In addition to an entertainment space, the Union also has a bar/diner, games room and student shop.
UWS Ayr Campus features a fitness suite that is open to all students and staff.
The facility, overlooking the river, has state-of-the-art equipment including a wide range of cardiovascular machines, resistance machines and a multi-use area.
UWS Ayr Campus offers stunning student accommodation just a few minutes' walk from the main campus building.
Ayr residence offers modern, stylish en-suite accommodation in a woodland setting but close to the main teaching building.
It houses 200 students and each flat consists of 4 to 5 private en-suite bedrooms with a shared open plan kitchen/lounge area.
There are 4 accessible units for disabled students and 6 studio flats (en-suite, with a large open plan kitchen, lounge and study area) also available.
Explore Ayr campus accommodation
Ayr is a popular seaside resort located 37 miles south west of Glasgow.
The town is set among some of Scotland’s most impressive scenery and looks out on the Firth of Clyde, with the peaks of Arran in the foreground and the Mull of Kintyre in the background.
Packed with historical sites, Ayrshire’s visitor attractions include unspoiled beaches and rolling hills, castles, a racecourse and numerous golf courses.
With a thriving collection of shops, cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, you will never be short of something to do.
In recent years, Ayr has increasingly become student-focused, offering excellent amenities, shops and entertainment.
Ayr provides a rare combination of relaxation and liveliness - an excellent environment in which students thrive.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/campuses/dumfries-campus:
Our campus provides state-of-the-art learning facilities including a simulated healthcare centre to provide health students with hands-on skills and expertise for their future careers.
Bridging the gap between theory and practical application an immersive learning suite creates complex indoor and outdoor virtual scenarios to help students gain a new perspective on, and insight into, their chosen subject.
Facilities in the campus include:
Find out more about getting to Dumfries Campus and the options available to you.
Travelling to Dumfries Campus
A range of flexible full and part-time UWS study opportunities are available in Dumfries and an enthusiastic team of experienced teaching staff are waiting to welcome you.
Students benefit from small class sizes, low staff to student ratios and a supportive study environment.
The campus is home to an acclaimed Student Services team and Student Success team who will equip you with the information you need about all aspects of University life and study to prepare you for your future career.
The relaxed, friendly atmosphere of the UWS Dumfries Campus extends into Dumfries itself.
It is a safe town which is well served by public transport with easy access to the campus by foot, car or bus from the town centre.
With a population of 38,000, Dumfries provides all the amenities of a city, but on a smaller scale.
Restaurants, pubs and clubs are plentiful, entertainment options include sports and health clubs and cinemas, as well as high street and independent shops.
The cost of living is also relatively low - a night out in Dumfries will cost you considerably less than a night out in the city and the search for accommodation in town, if you need it, will present very few problems.
University of the West of Scotland
Dumfries Campus
Bankend Road
DG1 4FD
Scotland
United Kingdom

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/campuses/lanarkshire-campus:
We’ve invested £110m to create a truly innovative, dynamic and collaborative university campus.
Hosting inspiring and flexible learning and teaching spaces packed with rich technology to give staff and students access to some of the most modern university facilities in the UK.
With state-of-the art gym, health and fitness facilities UWS Lanarkshire Campus is also one of the UK’s greenest educational environments, powered by 100% renewable energy.
Wherever you are on the campus, you’ll always be connected.
From campus-wide Wi-Fi, device charging points across the campus and a range of exciting social spaces to connect with fellow students and colleagues.
Located in one of Scotland’s most successful business parks, Hamilton International Technology Park, UWS Lanarkshire Campus seamlessly integrates industry and academia and allows for mutually beneficial partnerships between students, staff and local businesses.
Find out more about getting to Lanarkshire Campus and the options available to you.
Travelling to Lanarkshire Campus
Ultra-modern Campus
365 Days of the Year Access
Renewable Energy
Secure Car Parking Spaces
Students
Local Economic Impact
UWS Academic Schools
Discover the future of learning at UWS Lanarkshire Campus, Scotland’s brand new ultra-modern university campus.
The £110m campus embodies the UWS vision to provide 21st century, student-centred, personalised, distinctive learning and teaching experiences.
With its technology-rich, innovative learning and social spaces UWS Lanarkshire is at the forefront of modern learning environments, significantly enriching the educational journey of our students.
Innovative learning suites provide high-tech, flexible and collaborative spaces to deliver teaching in a powerfully effective and modern way.
The campus represents a shift in the way learning and teaching is defined in the higher education sector in Scotland and across the UK.
Thanks to the new campus and its flexible and collaborative spaces specifically designed to equip students with the skills most valuable to industry, students will graduate having experienced ground-breaking learning, putting them at a significant advantage as they embark on their chosen careers.
UWS Lanarkshire Campus is the place to collaborate.
The UWS Lanarkshire campus promotes enhanced collaboration 24/7 and supports continuous innovation between students, staff, and academics and outside organisations thanks to its flexible learning environments.
The design reflects the UWS belief in the transformative power of co-created learning.
Every space offers an area to learn and collaborate, with a range of facilities to choose from to support students in their studies.
The spaces have been specifically designed to equip students with the skills most desired by industry, including collaboration, creativity and communication, meaning students graduate having experienced ground-breaking learning, putting them at a significant advantage as they embark on their chosen career.
The three campus buildings are joined by “The Street” – a bright and airy work and social space for students, staff and the local community.
Students are benefiting from the chance to work closely with more than 80 local, national and international businesses, offering practical opportunities to gain experience during their university career.
Businesses on Hamilton International Park have the opportunity to collaborate with the University on a range of research, enterprise and commercialisation activities.
One of the UK's greenest universities.
The UWS Lanarkshire campus is a sustainable space for sustainable minds and is one of the UK’s greenest educational environments.
It’s an energy neutral development, powered by 100% renewable energy from a nearby windfarm, UWS Lanarkshire benefits from a range of important environmental features, including rainwater harvesting technology, back-up, on-site photovoltaic panels, a building management system, electric car charging points and even compostable cutlery.
Student and staff welfare is at the heart of the campus with excellent health, fitness and wellbeing facilities provided within a state-of-the-art gym, which, as well as being open to students and staff, is also be available for use by the local community and businesses based in the Hamilton International Park.
After a work-out or a study session, our modern restaurant and catering facilities ensure you’re re-fuelled and there’s plenty of green spaces to meet-up and socialise in, enhancing the sense of community at UWS.
At UWS Lanarkshire Campus, wherever you are, you’re always connected.
From campus-wide charging stations to powerful, campus-wide Wi-Fi and even Wi-Fi on UWS-branded buses, you won’t lose connection.
Thanks to our partnership with First Bus there’s a direct service to and from the university on a regular basis connecting you to all the major travel hubs.
The campus is within easy reach of central Scotland’s motorway network and there’s 1,000 secure car parking spaces available.
Students and staff can stay connected at the many social spaces, including The Hub, The Street or the library, which are one-stop-shops for support and enquiries.
The campus is open 24/7, 365 days a year ensuring access to online resources and services including eBooks and academic journal databases around the clock, so whether you’re a night owl or an early bird, you can harness your most productive time of day to get work done.
UWS Lanarkshire Campus is an innovation powerhouse providing a wealth of research and enterprise opportunities.
Designed with research-driven innovative learning and teaching in mind, its location with enterprise enables seamless collaboration between academia and business and provides a talent-rich pipeline of work-ready, industry-focused and highly talented students right on their doorstep.
The campus offers first-class research and development opportunities, and hosts Scotland’s newest simulated nursing and midwifery teaching environment as well as Scotland’s highest-specification environmental chamber – one of only two in the country and the only one in the West of Scotland.
The chamber will replicate environmental extremes for athletes.
UWS invites businesses to come and use its first-class facilities, including a 236-capacity auditorium, 38-60 capacity executive boardroom, 128-capacity conference space and an executive lounge.
Our community focused campus will be a hub of activity centred around the vibrant Street atrium.
The well-designed social spaces across the campus provides the ideal environment for students, staff and the wider public to study, relax, meet friends, grab a coffee or simply ‘hang out’.
Skills lab facilities will enable students to learn and practice in a realistic health setting.
Top of the range software will create simulated clinical wards and birthing suites.
Students will also learn in the virtual reality suite giving a 360 degree perspective of hospital and health settings.
Our state-of-the-art facilities include technology-enhanced bioscience teaching labs, specialised zoology laboratory facilities and a microbiology suite.
Specialist equipment includes: labs for health and performance, exercise biochemistry, cardiovascular imaging, and biomechanics; plus a physiotherapy suite and sector-leading environmental chamber.
Offers an excellent range of high fidelity simulation opportunities for healthcare students involved in:
The centre allows students to develop clinical skills in a safe environment with the challenges of complex scenarios.
The suites recreate indoor and outside settings with the distractions, hazards and complications of real-life situations.
Library facilities will reflect the changing ways students digest and consume information within a modern study environment.
An extensive range of books, journals and digital resources will allow students to access information whenever and wherever they need it.
The three campus buildings are joined by 'The Street' - a bright and airy work and social space for staff and students.
The Street includes Exhibition Avenue, a Street Café, Information Points, and comfortable seating to sit and study or catch up with friends or colleagues.
Our lively Students’ Union, run by SAUWS (University of the West of Scotland Students’ Association) will house social, welfare and advocacy services, and provide a great place to catch up with friends and socialise.
The UWS Lanarkshire Campus is located at Hamilton International Technology Park, approximately two miles from Hamilton and East Kilbride.
It is well-served by public transport links and UWS supports and encourages students to make sustainable travel choices for their journey to Lanarkshire Campus wherever possible.
Lanarkshire offers lots to see and do – there are a number of country parks and nature reserves nearby, such as Strathclyde Country Park.
The area has first-class sporting and leisure activities, including football, rugby, golf, tennis, ten-pin bowling, swimming and horse riding.
Hamilton town centre offers plenty of shopping options as well as a theatre, cinema and a range of bars, nightclubs and restaurants.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/campuses/london-campus:
Located in the historic London Docklands, a 1-minute walk from East India DLR station, you will find our newly expanded campus.
Our next generation campus features a stunning atrium, with light and airy teaching and learning spaces and great views across London.
Our technology-rich, flexible breakout and study spaces encourage interaction and collaboration amongst our students.
This greatly enhances their success in learning.
Find out more about getting to London Campus and the options available to you.
Travelling to London Campus
Including Business, Accountancy & Finance, Public Administration, Information Technology, Cyber Security, Project Management, Health and Education
The London Campus operates across the 7th floors of the Import Building and Export Building, both of which offer panoramic views across the city.
The campus offers modern, well-equipped, work and learning spaces.
These spaces can be adapted to support individual and collaborative group work, to ensure teaching is delivered in the most suitable manner.
Beyond teaching space, the London Campus has several social spaces, including a Common Room where you can relax and socialise with fellow students.
The Common Room is open to students from neighbouring universities, allowing students to build large personal network.
The Common Room has a ping pong table, desk games and regularly hosts social events.
We have a Library which provides a quiet area in which to work as well as study, with a team of friendly academic librarians who can help you find the resources you need, while also helping you to improve your academic skills.
UWS students are all able to borrow books and journals from other university libraries through our SCONUL (Society of College, National and University Libraries membership.
Other calming spaces where you can relax are the balconies that wrap around both of the buildings, which are decked out with tables and benches.
There is also a network of ponds at ground level, where you can unwind – these connect to the nearby Thames River and Bow Creek.
Both areas offer quiet spaces to allow you to get away from it all.
The UWS London Campus hosts a regular calendar of activities ranging from wellbeing to sport, social and academic events.
A hidden gem for restaurants, cafes and coffee shops, you will find plenty of places to get a wide range of high-quality food and refreshments.
Plus small independent shops and supermarkets nearby mean you will never be too far from everything you need to feel at home on our campus.
From small, independent music venues dotted around areas like Camden and Brixton, right up to the O2 Arena which is situated close to the campus, London has a lot to offer fans of live music.
Whatever the day of the week, there is sure to be something going on.
If your tastes are slightly more classical, London is home to five permanent symphony orchestras and many iconic classical music venues such as the Royal Albert Hall, Wigmore Hall and the Royal Opera House.
UWS has a proactive and dynamic Students' Association and all UWS students automatically become a member of the Students' Association.
They are here to support you during your time at UWS and all students can be active in the Students' Association by joining a society or getting support to set one up.
Societies are a great way for you to make friends and meet new people.
They can also allow you to develop some of the skills that you have learned in your studies.
While we do not have UWS-managed student accommodation in London, there are many private rental options for students seeking accommodation.
Companies such as Sanctuary Students , Unite Students as well as local letting agents for private flat rental can provide options.
[Please note that UWS cannot endorse private accommodation or private companies providing accommodation to students]
Our next generation London Campus, which is located in the historic London Docklands, is an exciting and vibrant place to work.
UWS is a great place to work – we are a modern, multi-campus university that genuinely cares for our employees.
JOBS AT UWS
London, the capital city of England and the United Kingdom, is an incredibly cosmopolitan and dynamic city.
With a population of 8.9 million, the city is diverse in nature, with over 230 languages spoken and a wealth of different cultures and communities.
UWS London Campus,
Floor 7, Export Building,
1 Clove Crescent,
London,
E14 2BA
(0)141 848 3047

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/campuses/paisley-campus:
Located in the centre of Paisley, Scotland's largest town, the campus is just 10 minutes by train from Glasgow, one of Europe's most exciting and dynamic cities.
Combining the town's history and heritage with modern, contemporary teaching facilities, UWS Paisley Campus provides a dynamic and inspiring learning environment.
The campus is home to around 10,000 students and offers a range of courses and research opportunities in business; computing; social sciences; engineering and science; and health, nursing and midwifery.
Find out more about getting to Paisley Campus and the options available to you.
Travelling to Paisley Campus
The UWS Paisley campus occupies over 20 acres in the centre of town with excellent teaching and study facilities.
It is important to keep a healthy balance between study and leisure, and there are a wide range of extra-curricular activities and entertainment options on offer at the UWS Paisley campus.
Our Robertson Trust Library and Learning Resource Centre provides excellent study resources - home to 200,000 volumes, reference journals and comprehensive electronic study materials, the library has 950 reader spaces, a computer lab and interactive video players for language materials.
There are numerous computer labs located around the Paisley Campus, and work stations in the Library and Students' Union.
All students have free, unlimited access to their email and the internet.
Our new £5 million Students' Union provides an excellent place to socialise and unwind.
Not only is the building a stunning piece of contemporary architecture, it also houses a coffee shop, main bar, games area, cafeteria and a 450 capacity events area.
Find out more about accommodation options at UWS Paisley Campus.
Paisley Campus Gym
Paisley is the largest town in Scotland, located just a few miles from Glasgow.
Once a quiet market town, Paisley was transformed into an international hub for textile design and production during the Industrial Revolution.
In the present day, Paisley is a vibrant town with a lively music and entertainment scene alongside a great selection of shops, museums and attractions combined with excellent travel connections across Scotland and its own international airport.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/about-our-website:
Information and statements regarding legislative and best practice guideline compliance are set out below.
This page outlines the UWS website terms and conditions, the consent your are indicating when you use the website and your agreement to comply with our terms and conditions
Our website uses cookies to distinguish you from other users of the website and to optimise your experience.
This page identifies the cookies that we use and information on third-party websites.
UWS's website Accessibility Statement along with feedback details and channels.
The following accessibility statements relate to additional UWS websites / online systems / platforms and are included on this website because it is difficult (due to the nature of these websites/platforms) to host them locally.
Accessibility statement for UWS's Residences Booking and Student Residences Platform (TCAS).
Accessibility statement for the UWS Shop website.
Accessibility statement for UWS's Online Application System.
UWS's LibGuides Accessibility Statement including resource links, feedback details and compliance issues.
UWS's Primo Accessibility Statement including resource links, feedback details and compliance issues.
Accessibility statement for UWS's Programme Spceification and Module Descriptor (PSMD) data repository.
This page outlines the UWS Student App Privacy Notice.
The App is provided by the CampusM system and is used by the University to allow students to access UWS student systems from one place.
The University is committed to looking after any information that you make available to us.
We aim to be clear about what we will do with your data.
This privacy notice explains when and why we collect personal information about you and how we will use this information including the ways we might share this with others.
HR Applicant Privacy Notice (PDF)

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/about-uws/modern-slavery-statement:
This is the Modern Slavery Statement for the University of the West of Scotland for the financial year ending 31 st July 2024.
It is made pursuant to section 54 of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 .
The University of the West of Scotland (“UWS”) is a “body corporate” under the terms of a statutory instrument.
UWS’s constitutional basis is contained within the Order of Council 2019.
Our governing body is the University Court.
UWS is organised into four academic Schools for learning, teaching and research spread across four campuses in the west of Scotland and one in London.
We employ approximately 1650 members of staff.
We have a zero tolerance approach to modern slavery and human trafficking.
This Statement sets out the measures that we have taken to prevent these practices from taking place in our own organisation and in our supply chains.
We purchase a wide range of goods and services from suppliers including:
Our commitment to employment rights is set out in our People and Wellbeing Policy Statement .
Rigorous right to work checks are carried out for all new members of staff to ensure that they are legally entitled work in the UK.
We pay all UWS staff and contractors engaged directly by the University at least the Real Living Wage, as set by the Living Wage Foundation and are accredited as a Living Wage Employer from Living Wage Scotland.
When it is necessary to fill employment vacancies using recruitment agencies, our Procurement Team oversee the procurement process and identify the appropriate Framework Agreement entered into by APUC, the Scottish Government or other UK procurement consortia.
This procurement is undertaken in accordance with the Procurement (Scotland) Regulations 2016 to ensure transparency, accountability and the following of due diligence.
We inform staff of our zero-tolerance approach to slavery and human trafficking by circulating our Modern Slavery Statement to staff in the UWS e-bulletin.
Legal Services have provided training to student facing teams in 2024 to raise awareness of the risk of modern slavery and human trafficking in relation to students.
Optional in-person or virtual training on modern slavery is currently available to all staff on request.
We will explore the option to offer an online awareness raising session to all staff in the next financial year.
From 2024, the University’s Head of Procurement is provided by the APUC Institutional Procurement Services Team.
APUC is the Centre of Procurement Expertise for Universities and Colleges in Scotland and offers access to industry best practice on sustainable procurement including tackling modern slavery in supply chains.
Members of the Procurement Team have undertaken Procurement Regulations & Sustainability training through APUC (Advanced Procurement for Universities and Colleges) and HEPA training on Protecting Human Rights in the Supply Chain.
The Team undertakes regular industry specific training.
The ‘Introduction to UK Culture’ presentation which is delivered to new international students when they join the University includes content on fair working practices.
The purpose of this is to raise awareness of what employment protections are in place in the UK to help international students to recognise abuse in the labour market.
We will take steps to raise awareness of this issue with the wider student population in the next financial year.
Before accepting any charitable donations, we carry out a number of checks to ensure that the funds do not come from unethical sources and keep a record of the due diligence that has been carried out.
The donation will then be subject to approval by our Donations Group, Vice Chancellor’s Executive or the University Court depending on its monetary value.
We regularly our Donations Procedure and the due diligence that we carry out on proposed donations.
In 2024, we published a new Donations Checklist setting out the checks that are carried out by our Fundraising & Alumni and Legal teams before a donations is presented for approval.
The University adheres to the Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998 and encourages all staff to report possible wrongdoing or malpractice within the University.
We introduced the Public Interest Disclosure (Whistleblowing) Procedure in 2023 to inform staff how to raise concerns and what protection they will receive when doing so.
Speakup@uws.ac.uk is available as a confidential email address for staff to report concerns to.
The Report and Support Tool is available to all staff and students.
This online platform enables individuals to report issues of concern either anonymously or by identifying themselves.
They can also seek support through the tool from both internal and external services if they are experiencing difficulties themselves.
We procure goods and services of the qualifying value through APUC (Advanced Procurement for Universities and Colleges) Ltd framework agreements.
APUC requires all suppliers to adopt their Supply Chain Code of Conduct, which confirms that it does not use forced, involuntary or underage labour, provides suitable working conditions and treats employees fairly.
An example of these frameworks is TUCO which is used by our Catering and Events Team to ensure that good purchased for sale on our campuses is sourced from ethical suppliers.
All coffee sold in UWS’s catering outlets is fair trade and purchased through Coffee Conscience who source ethical produce and support community initiatives globally.
We are a member of Electronics Watch, an organisation that works to ensure good working conditions in factories producing Information and Communication Technology (ICT) goods bought by public sector members across Europe.
Our Procurement Team requires current and potential suppliers to commit to responsible and sustainable procurement within their organisations and their supply chains and to confirm their compliance with the Sustain Supply Chain Code of Conduct.
This Code of Conduct has been collaboratively developed and reviewed by a range of stakeholders including the Sustain Project, APUC and equivalent centres of procurement expertise (LUPC, HEPA, EAUC), procurement and sustainability representatives from higher and further education, the National Union for Students and People & Planet.
This Code of Conduct requires the supplier to take specific steps in relation to fair working practices and ensuring that they do not engage in modern slavery.
The Procurement Team carry out due diligence at the following stages of the procurement process:
The Procurement Team carry out an annual review of our suppliers’ compliance with the Modern Slavery Act.
A selection of suppliers are identified through the Spikes Cavell Annual Spend Report and their Modern Slavery Statements are reviewed against the ‘Modern Slavery Checker’ created by the Chartered Institute of Procurement and Supply.
This Checker helps organisation to ensure that their suppliers are taking the necessary steps to make their supply chain more transparent.
The contracts that we put in place with our international student recruitment agents include a clause requiring the agent to confirm that they have read this Statement and commit to taking steps to ensure that there is no modern slavery or human trafficking in their own organisation or supply chains.
We now also ask prospective agents about this when they are applying to become an agent for UWS.
In 2024, we have added this clause to our collaborative agreements for transnational education and with further education partners.
This Statement was approved by the University Court on 25 November 2024 and signed below by the University’s Principal and Vice-Chancellor.
Professor James A.
Miller FRSA Principal and Vice-Chancellor, University of the West of Scotland
29 November 2024
View and download the UWS Modern Slavery Statement for the financial year ending 31st July 2024.
As noted above, this is made pursuant to section 54 of the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/about-our-website/accessibility:
University of the West of Scotland (the "University", "us", "our" or "we") is committed to making our web presence as accessible as possible to ensure it is compliant with The Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 and Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.1 (WCAG2.1) .
The website referred to in this statement is our main public website ( https://www.uws.ac.uk ) ("the website", "our website", "this website", "the site").
We run a number of other publically available websites but these will have their own accessibility statements.
Our website was designed to comply with internationally accepted web standards and guidelines in order to make it as accessible to as many people as possible.
A major exercise has been undertaken to align the website with the recently published WCAG2.1 (June 2018) guidelines and we are pleased that this work and the identification of the aspects of the site that were not yet fully accessible, with an associated timeline for action, ensure that the site is compliant with the latest legislation.
This website is based on the Umbraco CMS (version 7.15.2) with templated pages and reusable components to ensure a consistent user experience.
We want as many people as possible to be able to use this website.
For example, where possible, we have endeavoured to make the content as clear and easy-to-understand as possible.
However, we recognise that in some areas of the website, terminology may be more complex.
This reflects the nature of the content particularly that associated with research activities, areas, themes within the University.
Where appropriate, we provide some hints and links in the sections below.
Suggestions are offered in good faith for user convenience; but please note that plugins and software are used at your own risk.
We are not responsible for any issues arising from the use of tools or plugins over which we have no influence or control.
Although plugin suggestions are for Chrome, similar (and sometimes the same) plugins exist for other browsers.
The site has the following benefits for greatest possible accessibility:
Care has been taken to ensure that the site can be viewed at a magnification of 400% and that content reflows accordingly, across the website.
The website responds well on desktop and on mobile to different size browsers.
We have taken care to ensure that content is created and added according to responsive templates and reusable components.
There are a very small number of pages where magnifcation and reflow are restricted (see Technical Information section below for more details).
All webpages make use of the main navigation header.
This groups menu items into three distinct groups of navigation links.
Both menu and submenu items can be accessed easily by keyboard.
There are different ways to navigate the site.
You can:
Our main website search and other searches across the website (Course/Staff/News/Events) have a consistent look and feel as well as operation.
All searches work for keyboard-only users and focus states include search filters, where appropriate.
The website and the resources use header tags and labelled content regions to give pages a helpful information hierarchy.
Users can benefit by:
We have kept a consistent structure from page to page wherever appropriate and provide "Skip links" to allow repetitive navigable elements (e.g.
the site menu) to be avoided.
All parts of the website, including menus and interactive resources can be navigated using a keyboard using keystrokes like Tab, Enter, Escape and the Arrow keys.
The tab order is logical, and the currently focused item is highlighted for keyboard users.
Labelling makes it clear when sub-elements are available.
Keyboard-only users are also able to cycle through the menus and close the main menu using the escape key.
Across the vast majority of the website, default colour contrasts meet accessibility guidelines.We have identified one element where this is not the case (see Technical Information section below for more details).
You can change the default background colours using browser plugins like HighContrast or ScreenShader .
Autoplaying videos and carousels can be distracting; we ensure none of ours autoplay.
Media can be controlled by either mouse or keyboard.
All our videos since 2018 have high quality captioning.
We have tried to ensure that all new videos have had captions added prior to loading to streaming services in order to make them as accessible as possible.
We have taken care to ensure that appropriate descriptions have been added to website content elements that display links such as Read more or Find out more across the site for users of assistive technologies.
Call-to-action controls and link navigation allow contextual information to be used.
We have ensured that all images across the site have been identified as either decorative or non-decorative and have alternative text descriptions according to their category.
The website has labels and instructions built in to the various types of webpages as well as elements on webpages to assist visually imparied users understand the purpose and content therein.
In addition, labels and instructions are built into the website outlining the necessary webpage and element controls concerning use and navigation.
All the documents in the Policies and Procedures pages have been improved and pass the Adobe Acrobat Pro DC Accessibility Checker.
We continually review the accessibility of our website using the web governance platform, Siteimprove, for an automated accessibility review.
This statement will be reviewed regularly to reflect the discovery/resolution of any accessibility issues.
Currently, the following are being addressed may cause minor issue with some aspects accessibility:
A minority of our hyperlinks have non-unique text such as 'Download' or 'Click Here'.
This is covered in more detail in the technical section below.
Some of our embedded online forms may be difficult to complete when using a screen reader.
We use external, third party platforms for embedding or linking to online forms on the website to gather appropriate data from users.
Not all downloadable PDFs on the website are fully accessible.
We are currently working to address this.
You can contact us if you have digital accessibility feedback, issues, questions, or comments relating to our website.
If you are reporting an accessibility issue, please let us know exactly (in as much detail as you can) what issues you are experiencing as this will help us help you.
You can contact us if you:
We aim to meet the needs of all our website users as best we can.
The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing The Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 (the 'accessibility regulations').
If you are not satisfied with our response and would like to make a complaint, please check our complaints procedure .
If you’re not happy with how we respond to your complaint, contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS) .
University of the West of Scotland is committed to making this website accessible, in accordance with The Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 .
This website is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.1 (WCAG2.1) - AA standard, due to the non-compliances and exemptions listed below.
The content listed below is non-accessible for the following reasons:
Some elements / components within elements on our pages clip the content at the edge of their container make the overflow invisible.
The purpose of this success criterion is ot ensure that content is visually rendered so that it can be scaled and read directly with people with mild visual disabilities.
This fails success criteria 1.4.4 (Resize Text).
We aim to fix this by April 2025.
A very small number of pages across the website prevent users from zooming-in (magnifying) or scaling content.
These are the Virtual Tour pages and one HTTP Error 500 (Internal Server Error) webpage.
These fail success criteria 1.4.4 (Resize Text) and 1.4.10 (Reflow).
We cannot fix the Virtual Tour webpages (see Disproportionate Burden section, below).
However, we aim to fix the HTTP 500 Server Error page by April 2025.
There are certain webpage elements across the site where element IDs therein are not unique on the page itself.
This may impair assistive technologies accurattely interpreting and parsing content.
This fails success criteria 4.1.1 (Parsing).
There are a number of pages where the accessible name of interactive elements do not match their visible labels.
This fails success criteria Although this accessibility issue has been addressed in previous coding updates, it has been identified once more.
This fails success criteria 2.5.3 (Label in Name) and 1.3.1 (Info and Relationships).
There are a very small number of webpages where we have identified one element as having insufficient colour contrast between displayed text and a coloured background.
This fails success criteria 1.4.3 Contrast (Minimum).
Our forms are hosted by 3rd party solution providers and incorporated onto webpages as appropriate.
We cannot fix these issues directly.
In the meantime if you require a specific form please contact web@uws.ac.uk and request an accessible alternative version.
In addition our course search form in the Study section of the mega-navigation menu fails success criteria 4.1.1 (Parsing) Element ID is Not Unique.
In a very small number of pages on the website, alt tags are missing for forms embedded on webpages using inline iFrames.
Providing iFrames with alternative text is really helpful for assistive technologies.
This fails success criteria 1.1.1 Non-text Content.
We plan to fix this by April 2025.
Search filters are located on the website for: Event / News / Undergraduate Search / Postgraduate Search / Staff Directory filtering for your convenience.
They fail success criteria 3.2.2 (On Input) for missing buttons and 1.3.1 (Info & Relationships) where filter options are not grouped.
We have taken care to ensure that descriptions for screen reader users have been added to elements that display links such as Read more or Find out more across the site for users of assistive technologies.
However, there are other instances on the site hyperlink text is non-unique (eg Click here ).
We are working through the site to identify these and reformat the content concerned to try to eradicate this potential source of confusion for users of assistive technologies.
This fails success criteria 2.4.4 (Link Purpose (In Context)).
Some website content use same link name for links going to different destinations.
These fail success criteria 2.4.4 Link Purpose (In Context) Link text used for multiple different destinations.
The website contains a large number of downloadable PDFs.
Not all of these PDFs are fully accessible.
These PDFs contain machine readable content, but have a number of additional issues to raise their accessibility up to the required standards.
These PDFs typically fail accessibility guidelines on combinations of the following success criteria:
There may also be a very small number of PDFs which currently fail success criterion 1.4.5 (Images of Text), where they contain scanned text which may not have been converted to computer-readable text.
We are currently looking at solutions to address these issues.
We plan to complete this work by April 2025.
These are not currently keyboard accessible.
This fails success criteria 2.1.1 (Keyboard).
The virtual tour function was developed by a 3rd party.
We cannot fix this (see Disproportionate Burden section below) but sighted keyboard users may find switching on Windows Mouse Keys in the Ease of access panel could help.
In addition, our videos which collectively form the virtual tours, sit on webpages that fail accessibility criteria 3.1.1 (Language of Page) and 1.3.1 (Info & Relationships) - No Top-level Heading on the Page.
See Disproportionate Burden section below.
A small number of webpages are reporting WAI-ARIA errors where a non unique ID has been used.
These fail success criteria: 1.1.1 (Non-text Content), 1.3.1 (Info and Relationships), 2.4.4 Link Purpose (In Context), 3.3.2 (Labels or Instructions), and 4.1.2 (Name, Role, Value) "Aria-describedby" has incorrect (ID) reference.
A small number of our undergraduate course webpages generate accessibility warnings in relation to landmarks with identical names.
These fail success criteria 4.1.2 (Name, Role, Value) Landmarks with identical names.
Our five search listing pages (Undergraduate Courses / Postgraduate Courses / News / Events / Staff Directory) have missing WAI-ARIA states/properties in their filters.
These fail success criteria 4.1.2 (Name, Role, Value) Missing required WAI-ARIA states or properties.
A fully accessible version (passed Adobe Acrobat Pro DC’s accessibility checker) of the digital prospectuses is available for all users to download.
The option to create a personalised version of the undergraduate digital prospectus has been created this year.
Personalised versions are built with a PDF rendering engine supplied by a 3rd party.
Despite the fact that all PDFs supplied to the 3rd party by the University pass accessibility checks, their rendering engine does not retain essential PDF accessibility features.
The 3rd party supplier of the personalised digital prospectus solution has indicated that they are assessing the viability of developing a new PDF rendering engine that will retain PDF accessibility features.
However, they have not provided a delivery date for this new platform.
This rendering engine is used by multiple universities to create downloadable prospectuses, so the supplier is seeking a solution that can be shared across all clients.
A custom solution for the University was estimated to cost the University £60,000 which is a disproportionate burden at this time.
Our 360° virtual tours are not keyboard accessible, neither are they accessible to blind users.
The latter would be extremely difficult to achieve technically.
The former should be possible, and we are actively exploring more accessible interfaces.
In the meantime, we believe that the benefits of this partially accessible content for disabled people with mobility issues or anxiety issues outweigh the disadvantages and we offer 1:1 orientation training to blind students as part of our normal support.
We use 3rd party platforms for all our enquiry and lead generating forms.
At present, although these platforms have some support for screen readers, they are not fully accessible.
For example, some input fields and select boxes have no built-in descriptions.
These may fail a number of success criteria including: 1.3.1 (Info & Relationships), 4.1.2 (Name, Role, Value).
We cannot fix these issues directly but we are in discussions with our suppliers with respect to their platform development roadmaps in relation to accessibility compliance.
In the meantime, if there are any forms that you need in another format, please contact web@uws.ac.uk and request an accessible MS Word version.
* the term "office file formats" refers to a document in a format that is not intended primarily for use on the web but is included in web pages, e.g.
Adobe Portable Document Format, Microsoft Office documents or their open-source equivalents.
We have undertaken a manual digital accessibility assessments of the website.
In addition, we undertake regular automated digital accessibility assessments of the website.
The results of both assessments informed the identification of coding enhancements on the website which addressed many of the accessibility issues identified therein.
A number of necessary coding alterations were implemented in over the period September 2020 - July 2021.
This statement was prepared on 22 September 2020.
It was externally reviewed and manually tested on 22 September 2020 and undergoes automatic testing every 5 days.
The manual test was carried out by AbilityNet Ltd.
See the details of assessments undertaken below:
The manual digital accessibility assessment of the website was undertaken between 23/09/2020 and 25/09/2020.
Assessment was carried out using a variety of tools, including assistive technologies such as the NVDA screen reader.
It was carried out by AbilityNet Ltd.
This website is built on the Umbraco CMS (version 7.15.2) with templated pages and reusable components.
The assessment focused on reusable components and templates in order to identify accessibility issues that would need to be addressed for the site to be compliant with accessibility legislation and guidelines.
The review had two components:
The website is also assessed using a sector-leading, automated website governance platform to identify website errors, warnings - Siteimprove.
This statement was initially prepared in September 2020.
It was last reviewed in September 2022 and updated in October 2022.
We review this statement at least annually and will next review it in September 2024.
We are committed to ensuring that our website is accessible to all.
This requires regular and ongoing website accessibility monitoring and improvement activities.
To assist in these activities, we have embraced a sector-leading web governance platform - Siteimprove.
We are also committed to ensuring that digital accessibility is embedded in the digital creation process and this entails a programme of staff training in a variety of areas of digital accessibility from understanding WCAG 2.1 through to creating accessible documents with Adobe InDesign depending upon roles.
Please note that all publicly accessible UWS websites, apps, and digital platforms should have their own accessibility statement.
Most will have these statements within their own platform.
However, for a small number of these digital platforms it may not be possible to do this easily and so, we have hosted these accessibility statements on this website and have hyperlinks on the requisited platforms to link to these pages.
You can access a number of these by clicking the link below:

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/about-our-website/website-terms-conditions:
In these Website Terms of Use (“Terms”) the University of the West of Scotland is referred to as the ‘ University ’, ‘ our ’, ‘ we ’ or ‘ us ’.
The term “ you ” means you, as the person using or viewing our website.
By using the website, you are indicating that you accept these Terms and agree to comply with them.
If you do not agree to these Terms you should leave the website immediately.
We have the right to change and update the Terms of at any time and your continued use of the website will indicate that you accept the updated or amended Terms.
If you are provided with, a user ID or password to allow you access to the website then you must keep such information confidential and not disclose it to any third party.
We have the right to disable any user ID or password, at any time, if in our reasonable opinion you have failed to comply with these Terms.
We make all reasonable efforts to make sure that the content of the website is accurate and up-to-date.
However, we do not accept responsibility for mistakes or omissions in the website.
All content is provided ‘as is’ and we make no warranties, representations or undertakings about any of the content on the website, for example in relation to quality, accuracy, completeness or fitness for any particular purpose of such content.
Every effort is made by us to keep the website available and running smoothly.
However, we take no responsibility for and will not be liable for the website being temporarily unavailable due to technical issues.
Every effort is made by us to ensure the website and any downloadable content is free from viruses but we cannot guarantee this.
You are responsible for configuring your computer or other information technology equipment in order to access the website.
You should use your own virus protection software because we do not accept liability for damages resulting from virus infection.
Unless otherwise indicated, all copyrights in this website including text, images, graphics, designs and other content belongs to the University.
All rights are reserved.
You may download any part of this website for personal, non-commercial use only, such as reference.
If you wish to use any content for any other purpose you should get permission from our Department of Marketing & Communications , marketing@uws.ac.uk .
Where our website contains links to other websites and resources provided by third parties, those links are provided for information only and does not imply any endorsement by us of these sites unless it is specifically stated.
We have no control over the content of those third party sites or resources and so accept no responsibility for your use of them.
You may link to our website, provided you do so in a way that is fair and legal and does not damage our reputation or take advantage of it, but you must not establish a link in a way that implies any form of association, approval or endorsement on our part where none exists.
We reserve the right to withdraw linking permission without notice.
Nothing in these Terms requires us to maintain the existence of or the content within any URL you may link to.
The following additional terms, will also apply to your use of our website:
Our Privacy Notice , which sets out how we process any personal data we collect from you, or that you provide to us.
Our Cookies Policy , which sets out information about the cookies on our website.
If you are posting or transmitting material via our website you must not post or transmit any material:
that is threatening, defamatory, indecent, offensive or abusive
for which you have not have all necessary licences and/or approvals
which constitutes or encourages conduct that could be considered a criminal offence
which is technically harmful (for example, contains computer viruses, corrupted data or other malicious software)
In no event will we be liable for any direct, indirect, special, or consequential losses or damages of whatsoever kind arising out of access to, or the use of the website or any information contained in it, including loss of profit or loss of data, whether or not this was contemplated by you or by us and whether based on breach of contract, delict (including negligence), product liability or otherwise, even if we were advised of the possibility of such damages.
Nothing in these Terms excludes or limits our liability for death or personal injury arising from our negligence, or our fraud or fraudulent misrepresentation, or any other liability that we cannot exclude or limit under Scots law.
The laws of Scotland govern these Terms and you agree that the Scottish courts shall have exclusive jurisdiction in any dispute.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/about-our-website/cookies:
Our website uses cookies to distinguish you from other users of our website.
Cookies help us to provide you with a good experience when you browse our website.
It also allows us to make improvements to our website.
You can change your cookie settings at any time.
A cookie is a small file of letters and numbers that we store on your browser or the hard drive of your computer.
Cookies contain information that is transferred to your computer's hard drive.
They provide useful information to us which helps in all sorts of ways.
For you, it could mean you can use the site more efficiently and save time by not having to re-enter your details each time you visit.
However, for us, cookies help us to analyse how our visitors interact with our site so we can make improvements.
We use cookies on www.uws.ac.uk because they enable us to:
We do not use cookies to:
You can find more information about cookies at www.allaboutcookies.org .
There are broadly four types of/and reasons why a cookie might be stored on your device when visiting the University website.
These cookies are placed on your device either by the University or by the third parties whose services we use as part of the website.
Some cookies are retained in your browser for only as long as you visit our website, while others persist for a longer specified or unspecified period.
These are cookies that are required for the operation of our website.
They include, for example, cookies that enable you to log into secure areas of our website.
Purpose: A yes/no cookie that is used by the site to determine whether you have had the cookie policy drop down appear for you.
Expiry: The cookie is only valid during current browser session and it will be deleted when you close browser.
These cookies allow us to recognise and count the number of visitors and to see how visitors move around our website when they are using it.
This helps us to improve the way our website works, for example, by ensuring that users are finding what they are looking for easily.
We use Google Analytics Cookies to compile visitor statistics such as how many people have visited our website, what type of technology they are using (e.g.
Mac or Windows which helps to identify when our site isn't working as it should for particular technologies), how long they spend on the site, what page they look at etc.
This helps us to continuously improve our website.
These cookies also tell us, on an anonymous basis , how people reached this site (e.g.
from a search engine) and whether they have been here before.
Read Google's overview of privacy and safeguarding data.
List of cookies: _ga, _gid, _gat_UA-5268925-1,  _gat_UA-5268925-9, __qca
You can opt-out of having your anonymised browsing history within our website recorded by analytics cookies.
You can learn more about their privacy policy and how to opt-out of their analytics cookies by clicking on following links:
Google Analytics Privacy Policy
Opt-out of Google Analytics cookies
UWS uses Google DoubleClick to register and report the website user's actions after viewing or clicking one of the advertiser's ads with the purpose of measuring the efficacy of an ad and to present targeted ads to the user
List of cookies: IDE
It is possible to personalise Google’s Ads settings with your Google Account.
You can learn more about their privacy policy and how to opt-out of their cookies by clicking on following links:
Google DoubleClick Privacy Policy
Opt-out of DoubleClick cookies
An analytics platform that is used to measure response to TV advertising.
Cookie name
Type
Data stored
Purpose
__adal_ca
Persistent
Traffic source / campaign data
Store which advertising campaign drove a user to visit
__adal_cw
Visit timestamp
Tie back conversion events to earlier visits
__adal_id
Device ID (generated)
Uniquely identify a device
We will sometimes use tracking pixels that set cookies to assist with delivering tailored online advertising to you.
These cookies allow us to target our advertising to you on other websites.
For example, we might show you an ad on other websites based on what you've viewed on www.uws.ac.uk .
Cookies are widely used in online advertising.
By better what you are interested in, we can more efficiently promote related messages, offers to you.
Be assured though that the process is anonymised and you cannot be personally identified at any time through the use of these cookies.
You can, of course, opt out of almost all advertising cookies by updating your preferences on the ‘Your Online Choices’ website.
It is worth noting that opting out of advertising cookies won't stop you seeing adverts, just that they won't be tailored specifically to your interests or online activities.
Opt out of advertising cookies on Your Online Choices website .
Quantcast is a measurement, research and advertising company, and gathers data regarding the visitors to https://www.uws.ac.uk/ on our behalf using cookies, log file data and code embedded in our sites.
We use this information to help improve the services we provide to you.
List of cookies: mp_65d384b072302e9ab16c9315bbc5f2b3_mixpanel, d, mc
Quantcast Privacy Policy
Opt-out of Quantcast cookies (set for international users only)
Third-party cookies are not set directly by our website, but in certain circumstances may be initiated by third party service providers.
UWS does not control the dissemination of these cookies.
dotdigital provides email and cross-channel marketing automation solutions.
We sometimes use this platform to gather personal data of prospective and current students interested in studying at UWS.
List of cookies: ShowDowntimePage, Survey-872whm09, Survey-bb30py17, Survey-ff327v9e, UserData, __RequestVerificationToken, __cfduid, __lc.visitor_id.8597796, _ceg.s, _ceg.u, _ga, _gid, _uetsid, ajs_anonymous_id, ajs_group_id, ajs_user_id, authdm, crmGoogle, intercom-lou-m0x2gqp8, intercom-session-m0x2gqp8, lc_sso8597796, lc_window_state, wisepops, wisepops_session
You can learn more about their privacy policy by clicking on following link:
dotdigital Privacy Policy
We also use third party video services Vimeo and YouTube on our site.
As part of their service they use cookies to track videos viewed by visitors so they can in the future offer videos tailored to your taste.
This also allows them to target their advertising more precisely.
Facebook, Twitter / X, and LinkedIn share links may be placed on some pages on our website.
If you click on them, these will also add cookies to your session from their own servers.
To find out more about the cookies set by and privacy policies of these external sources click the links below:
You can restrict or block cookies which are set during your use of the website by changing your browser’s settings.
Some pages may not work if you completely disable cookies, but many third party cookies can be safely blocked.
Check information in your browser’s help section for specific instructions on how to manage cookies.
Alternatively, websites such as “All About Cookies” provide comprehensive guidance on managing cookies .
See how to manage cookies on Internet Explorer
See how to manage cookies on Mozilla Firefox
See how to manage cookies on Google Chrome
See how to manage cookies on Apple Safari
On 26 May 2012, European law relating to use of web cookies came into force in the UK that affected most web sites.
The rules on cookies are covered by The Privacy and Electronic Communications (EC Directive) Regulations 2003 and The Privacy and Electronic Communications (EC Directive) (Amendment) Regulations 2011 .
The European Data Protection Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation) came into force on May 25th, 2018 in all EU member states to harmonize data privacy laws across Europe.
The Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) is responsible for enforcing these rules.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/about-our-website/privacy:
The University is committed to looking after any information that you make available to us when you visit our website.
This website privacy notice explains when and why we collect personal information about you and how we will use this information.
It also explains how we keep your information secure as well as the rights you have in relation to the information we hold about you.
The headings below set out the main information we need to give to you.
The website privacy notice will be regularly reviewed to make sure it contains the most up-to-date information.
You should check our website to review a copy of our most recent website privacy notice.
This website privacy notice relates to how we use the information you provide when you visit our website.
There are times when we have separate privacy notices which deal with other circumstances, for example, how we handle your data if you enrol as a student of the University.
You will be made aware of these tailored privacy notices separately.
We have a separate document that explains how we use Cookies on our website and this can be found here .
If you have any questions about any of the information contained in this privacy notice then you can contact us on dataprotection@uws.ac.uk .
The University of the West of Scotland (referred to in this Privacy Notice as the “University”, “we”, “our” or “us”) is the Data Controller under the data protection legislation.
This privacy Notice sets out how we process personal data about visitors to our website (referred to in this Privacy Notice as “you” or “your”).
We collect information about you:
The personal data which we hold about you is will be the information provided directly by you when you make an enquiry through the website.
We will use the information we hold about you to respond to any queries you have raised with us or to provide you with information that you have requested that we send you.
If you make a general enquiry we will only send you the information you have requested and will not use your details for any further direct marketing purposes unless you have given your consent for us to do this.
We may use data to analyse demographic and other statistical information about the popularity and effectiveness of our website, but we'll only disclose that information in aggregate form, so individual users cannot be identified.
We may process your personal data for a number of reasons.
Primarily this is because you have consented to this so that we can respond to your enquiry or provide you with the information you have requested.
There may be times that we process your information because it is necessary for the purposes of our legitimate interests.
For example, to better understand how people interact with our websites.
We will not process your data for the legitimate interests of any third parties.
We will retain your data for as long as it is needed to respond to your enquiry.
If you also consent to receiving marketing information from us we will keep your data for longer but will ask for your consent again periodically so that we can ensure the information we send to you is still relevant.
Authorised personnel within the University will be able to access the information you provide to us.
Your personal data will only be shared with those third parties with whom the University works in order to provide you with relevant, personalised communications.
These types of organisations can include but are not limited to:
No information will be passed to third party organisations for them to contact you directly themselves.
Under the legislation you have certain rights in relation to the information we hold about you:
Many of the rights above are not absolute so there may be times when you make a request to us and we are unable to meet it in full but if this is the case we will explain to you fully why we have not been able to do what you have asked.
You should also be aware that where our processing of your information relies on your consent and you then decide to withdraw that consent then we may not be able to provide all or some aspects of our services to you.
More detailed information about the rights you have any how you can make a Personal Data Request is noted below.
We employ industry-standard security measures to protect your information from access by unauthorised persons and against unlawful processing, accidental loss, destruction or damage.
All personal information we hold about you is held on our secure servers.
If we hold paper records about you then we make sure that staff are trained about how they should handle this information and make sure it is stored securely.
Information transmission over the internet can never be guaranteed to be completely secure and although the University will endeavour to protect your personal data we cannot guarantee the security of your personal data transmitted to our website.
Any such transmission is at your own risk.
Once we have received your information, we will use strict procedures and security features to prevent unauthorised/unlawful access and disclosure.
A firewall is a network security device that monitors incoming and outgoing network traffic and decides whether to allow or block specific traffic based on a defined set of security rules.
Rules are designed to provide a balance between strong security and allowing staff and students appropriate access to teach and study.
Patch management is a strategy for managing security fixes or upgrades for software applications and technologies.
A patch management plan helps the organisation handle these changes efficiently and in a controlled and fully tested manner.
We patch our devices and systems as part of a 30 day rolling process.
Critical security patches are installed as required.
Access control is a security technique that can be used to regulate who or what can view or use resources in a computing environment.
Access to files and folders and connections to computer networks is based on user credentials, login and password.
The UWS network is constantly monitored for anomalous behaviour which would be associated with cyber-attacks.
Event monitoring tools help us to monitor details of activity on the network and allow us to highlight areas of concern for further investigation.
Identifying anomalies quickly is vital to securing the confidentially, integrity and availability of data on our network.
Anti-Virus protection is installed on all endpoint devices and updated at least daily with the latest vendor updates.
Antivirus software is designed to prevent, detect and remove malware infections on individual computing devices, networks and IT systems.
Our antivirus software programs include real-time threat detection and protection to guard against potential vulnerabilities as they happen, as well as system scans that monitor device and system files looking for possible risks.
In general information we store and process stays within the UK.
If you have completed a Dotdigital form then the information will be processed in the UK or EEA except in limited circumstances.
If data is accessed out with the UK or EEA appropriate safeguards will be in place to protect your data.
The University Solicitor is the UWS Data Protection Officer.
If you have any concerns about how we handle your personal data or want to more about how to make a Personal Data Request, then you can contact the Data Protection Officer directly by e-mail dataprotection@uws.ac.uk or by post at Data Protection Officer, University of the West of Scotland, Legal Services, High Street, Paisley, PA1 2BE
If you remain unhappy then you have a right to complain to the Information Commissioners Office:
Information Commissioner’s Office Wycliffe House Water Lane Wilmslow Cheshire SK9 5AF

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/postgraduate-application-guide:
Applying for postgraduate study is a simple process through our online form.
Most postgraduate courses start in either January or September – you can choose which intake suits you best when you apply.
There are a few steps that you need to go through to ensure you have everything you need to make an application.
If you are an international student (including EU/EEA; but excluding Republic of Ireland), please refer to our step-by-step guide for international students .
Before you begin your application, it is important to read our step-by-step guide.
We offer more than 80 postgraduate certificates, diplomas and degrees (PgCert, PgDip, MA, MSc, MBA/DBA*, and MProf).
Use our degree finder to decide which course you would like to study at UWS.
* DBA suspended intake for 2024/25
Make sure that your academic qualifications meet the requirements for your chosen course.
Most postgraduate degree courses will require you to hold an undergraduate degree from a UK institution.
If you’ve studied abroad you’ll need an equivalent qualification from an institution recognised by the UK National Recognition Information Centre ).
Find out more about postgraduate entry requirements at UWS.
Find out more about English language entry requirements at UWS.
Your tuition fees are determined by your nationality and the country where you are ordinarily resident.
CHeck your tuition fee status
Each individual course entry will identify the tuition fees for full-time and part-time study (if applicable).
Check our Postgraduate and Post-experience course listing
NB: Part-time tuition fees are normally listed on a per-module basis (typically 20-credit point modules).
There is a great deal of financial support available to help students meet the cost of their study.
This ranges from statutory government loans to pay for tuition fees to bursaries to help towards living expenses.
financial support you might be entitled to
You can apply for postgraduate study at UWS through our online application system.
Apply Now
As part of the application process you will need to provide digital copies of the following documents:
You can apply for a postgraduate degree right up to the start of the intake.
Within this email, there will be details of the additional documents (if any) you need to supply in support of your application.
This will include guidance on how to accept an offer and fee payment, if required.
Our Admissions team will make one of the following decisions:
The UWS Admissions Policy has been developed to provide transparency in the admissions processes and practices of University of the West of Scotland, ensuring that a quality service is given to all applicants.
View the UWS Admissions Procedure
UWS is committed to fairness and transparency in its application process.
As part of our responsibility towards students and staff, all applicants and enrolled students, should disclose relevant, unspent criminal convictions.
View the UWS Criminal COnvictions & Charges Procedure
Going to university is about much more than getting a qualification, it’s also the chance to enjoy an exciting social life, gain some independence and make the most of the new opportunities available.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/current-students/supporting-your-health-wellbeing:
At UWS, we are committed to ensuring that you get the most from your university experience, regardless of your personal circumstances or background.
Got a question?
Not sure where to go?
Your first port of call is The Hub (Paisley campus) or Student Links (Ayr, Dumfries, Lanarkshire and London).
If personal and emotional problems are making your life difficult, the counselling service at UWS can help.
Our free, confidential service is available to all UWS students.
Every student should be able to experience the full range of the university’s activities.
UWS welcomes and celebrates people of all faiths and none.
Whatever your beliefs, you’ll find space for reflection on campus and personal support from the multifaith chaplaincy team.
Get the answers you need as an international student at UWS.
The International Student Support Team offers information, help and advice.
UWS health and safety tips for your well-being, on and off campus.
At the University of the West of Scotland and the Students’ Union, we recognise the importance of promoting and supporting the mental health and wellbeing of our students.
UWS is committed to eradicating gender-based violence in education and aligning to The Scottish Government's National Equally Safe Strategy.
UWS is committed to its students and will provide free sanitary products for students who need them.
Our organisational truths celebrate that the University "is a great place to work" and that "We are here for our students".
As part of our shared commitment to these truths we must ensure that we nurture and maintain an environment which supports our diverse student and colleague body in achieving their potential.
Aligned to this, we as a University are committed to supporting and promoting wellbeing across the UWS community.
This plan supports that aspiration.
UWS MENTAL HEALTH AND WELLBEING PLAN 2021-2024

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/current-students/student-services-a-z:
A step-by-step guide to applying for an undergraduate degree at University of the West of Scotland.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/current-students/student-roadmap:
Starting a degree can feel overwhelming.
There is so much information provided to you, our new students, that it is easy to get lost along the way.
We have created the following roadmap to help you successfully navigate your way through those first few weeks.
Our student enrolment and induction pages provide the latest information on what to expect when you join UWS.
STUDENT ENROLMENT AND INDUCTIONS
There are a few basic things that will put you on the right path early on.
Keep calm and get through the checklist.
It’s Week 3 of term - it’s time to focus and do some planning.
Remember, you should have completed your enrolment by the end of Week 2.
If you've still to complete your enrolment, contact your School to discuss possible Late Enrolment opportunities.
Keep calm and stay the course.
There are tools that can help you keep on the path.
It’s that time in the year when you realise you need to not only plan your studies, but also manage your money.
Do not despair.
Use some of the tools below to plan both your finances and your studies.
Much of your learning at university is done independently.
Make the most of your time and make good use of the numerous support services available to you.
Your university life will be recorded in your individual Higher Education Achievement Record (HEAR) transcript.
You can enhance your HEAR by taking part in extra-curricular activities, such as sports and volunteering.
Take advantage of all the opportunities available at UWS.
There might not be much teaching during this week.
However, there's still plenty you can do to support your studies.
It’s cold outside and it’s getting darker.
Keep away the winter blues by staying positive.
You've been working so hard.
You have met new people, made new friends and have completed all your assignments on time.
You're taking the first steps to becoming an independent learner.
The good news is that the trimester is nearly over - you're nearly there!
You've made it, it's the end of the trimester.
You may have a few exams or you may have had assignments throughout the trimester.
Do not worry if you still have final exams though.
You've done all of the hard the work and are in a good place.
However, help is always available should you need it.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/current-students/graduation:
View Our Graduation Ceremonies on our YouTube Channel
UWS Graduation FAQs (pdf)
We are pleased to announce that Autumn 2025 graduation ceremonies in London will take place on Wednesday 24th and Thursday 25th September 2025 .
Students who are eligible to graduate at the Autumn ceremonies will receive information about how to register during week commencing 11th August.
This will be sent to their UWS student email address and any personal email address which has been provided via the Banner Student Information System.
The deadline to complete graduation registration will be 22nd August 2025 .
Virtual ceremony will take place on Friday 14th November 2025 .
Autumn 2025 Ceremony Details (pdf)
*The University reserves the right to change the above dates if this is deemed necessary for any reason.
Organisation of award ceremonies for UWS students enrolled on validated programmes at partner institutions overseas and in the UK is the responsibility of the partner institution.
Any enquiries regarding award ceremonies for these programmes should be sent directly to the partner institution.
To commemorate your time studying at UWS and celebrate your academic achievements, there’s the opportunity to purchase UWS branded merchandise via our official online suppliers, Campus Clothing.
The range includes our exclusive UWS tartan merchandise, UWS graduation range and UWS-branded clothing and gifts.
Items are ordered and despatched direct from Campus Clothing.
Click here to go straight to the UWS section of the online shop, or search for West of Scotland as your institution on the Campus Clothing website .
Find full details of Academic Dress for UWS graduation ceremonies here .
Crowd shots will be taken by the University photographers at the venue and at our graduation receptions and these may include images of you and your guests.
During the ceremony and the subsequent celebrations, members of University staff will be present taking photographs and this may include photographs of you and your guests as individuals or part of a small group.
These images may be used on the graduation website and on the University's social media channels.
They may also be used in future graduation brochures and booklets and in our marketing and promotional materials both in the UK and overseas.
We will use these images in both printed and electronic format and may use them for a period of up to 5 years after they have been taken.
The photographer will ask for you and your guest’s verbal consent before taking any pictures of you individually or as part of a small group.
If you do not wish for your photograph to be taken and used in the way described above, you should tell the photographer when they ask for your consent.
The virtual ceremonies will be broadcast live for graduates, their families and friends, and will be available thereafter on the University’s YouTube channel.
You can find further details about how the University will process your information in our UWS Graduation Privacy Notice.
View the UWS Graduation Privacy Notice (pdf)
In the event that the graduation/celebration is cancelled for any reason the university does not accept liability for direct or indirect loss or damages incurred as a result of the cancellation of the event.
This includes any loss incurred with external suppliers such as travel, accommodation, photography or robing.
We would recommend that you consider the cancellation and refund policies of any suppliers before making a booking with them and you may also wish to consider having appropriate insurance in place.
As a graduate, you’ll automatically become a member of the active and thriving UWS Alumni Association made up of over 120,000 alumni around the world.
Stay connected by joining our alumni LinkedIn network and follow our social media channels.
For more information, please visit:
UWS Alumni
You are also eligible to access support from the Careers Service for a further 5 years after you graduate.
Download the Careers Service Guide:
Beyond Graduation...
your next steps (pdf)

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/current-students/developing-your-career:
Your UWS Careers Service is here to help you achieve your career goals by providing professional careers education, information, advice and guidance.
The Careers Service Website hosts a wide variety of resources to help with your Career Development, as well as an online calendar for booking appointments and events.
Log in to the careers service website
Note: you may need to log in with your UWS Office365 log in details if you’re not already logged in.
We host a dedicated careers website for Alumni offering relevant information, advice and guidance, along with appointment and event booking.
UWS Alumni are eligible to access the Careers Service for up to five years after graduating.
Download our guide outlining the range of services that you, as a UWS alumni, can access:
Download the UWS Careers Services for Alumni Guide (pdf)
Click here to register your Alumni Account.
You will receive an email with log in details when you register your account.
Log in to the UWS Careers website for alumni
The UWS Student and Graduate Vacancies Website is managed by the Careers Team.
Students can access this with their UWS network log in and recent graduates can register an Alumni Account.
We recommend you log in and set up your profile and email preferences to receive relevant email alerts of vacancies being advertised.
We provide a one-to-one appointment service for students and recent graduates.
Our professionally qualified Careers Advisers provide support for any career related issues and questions you may have.
We will:
BOOK AN APPOINTMENT
Students and recent graduates can take part in workshops, webinars and employer presentations.
We promote these in our Careers Events Calendar in our website.
We also have a page where we provide details of relevant external events, such as careers fairs.
CAREERS EVENTS calendar
We can support you with advertising your vacancies to our students and recent graduates, as well as raising your profile with our students via on campus and online careers events.
We also welcome employers to get involved with our Employer Mentoring Programme.
Visit our Recruit Our Students page for more information.
You can contact the Careers Team if you have any enquiries or issues accessing the resources linked to above.
Email : careers@uws.ac.uk
You can also follow us on Twitter and Instagram

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/current-students/disruption:
UWS campuses are rarely completely closed.
However, some unforseen operational issues, planned industrial disputes or extreme local environment, weather conditions may cause us to close a campus.
If bad weather or other events cause major disruption to the running of the university, you’ll find up-to-date information here.
All UWS campuses are operating as normal at present.
External websites with the latest weather, travel and local authority update information:

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/alumni/support-us:
The UWS Development Fund is supported by gifts from the UWS community including our staff, alumni and friends, to support our students to have an outstanding experience at UWS.
Benefitting students across all five of our unique campuses, the Fund is helping to:
Support UWS with a regular gift and become a Patron of the UWS Development Fund.
You can join from just £5 per month .
The UWS Development Fund is supported by gifts from the UWS community.
Whether you’d like to give back to the University or are inspired to support our journey, your donations - no matter how big or small – will support our students to have an outstanding experience at UWS.
Projects Funded by the UWS Development Fund Benefitting students across all five of our unique campuses, your gifts are helping to:
What Your Giving Can Achieve Our students are at the heart of what we do, and your regular gift will help us widen participation and nurture talent, enabling students to thrive in their education.
At UWS, we believe financial restrictions should never be a barrier to education.
We are committed to removing the financial barriers that stop talented students from disadvantaged backgrounds choosing a university education and progressing throughout their degree to graduation.
We are proud to have launched the WEST (Widening Education and Supporting Talent) Scholarship Fund and we are calling upon the support of our alumni and friends to help us realise ambitious plans to increase the number of students we can support.
Committed to Widening Participation UWS is proud to have the largest intake of students from SIMD20 backgrounds in Scotland (Scottish Index of Multiple Deprivation worst affected 20%) welcoming over 3,600 students from these backgrounds per year.
Many of our students join UWS from non-traditional backgrounds including mature students, single parents and those who are under-represented in their subject areas.
The last few years have been challenging for us all and with the ongoing uncertainty around the rising cost of living, students need our support now more than ever.
Supporting Students Who Need It Most Our scholarship selection process is targeted towards supporting students who need it the most.
Many of our students are the first in their families to attend university and struggle to maintain study around their family or work commitments.
We place focus on supporting students from the lowest family income brackets, those who come from a care experienced background or may be estranged from their families.
We know not every student follows the same path from high school and actively encourage applications from students progressing to UWS from college.
We currently welcome over a thousand students articulating from colleges in Scotland each year – the most of any Scottish University.
Be part of our journey by making a gift to the WEST Scholarships Fund today.
Your gift – no matter how big or small – will support scholarships for students who truly need it most.
If you would like to know more contact:
Claire Darragh Individual Giving Manager claire.darragh@uws.ac.uk
Some of the fondest memories we have of our time at University are those spent at the Union or taking part in clubs and societies.
At UWS every Wednesday afternoon is allocated as free from classes for the majority of programmes to ensure our students have the opportunity to take part in sports and social activities.
UWS is proud to have over 40 clubs and societies which provide a supportive community setting for our students to invest in their passions, develop new skills and establish life-long friendships.
Make a recurring gift or single gift to the UWS Development Fund.
Gifts from the UWS Development Fund are supporting the upkeep and growth of our clubs and societies within the UWS Students Union.
The Fund works closely with the Union to distribute awards on an application basis once per year to allow clubs and societies to purchase new equipment, kit and arrange activities.
Team UWS is responsible for all sporting clubs at the University which provide our students with the opportunity to compete, to train and to socialise.
There are over 20 sports clubs at UWS ranging from competitive sport to recreational programmes of health and fitness.
The UWS Development Fund is supporting Team UWS in the delivery and expansion of their sporting programme to ensure our students have unrivalled access to sporting facilities to benefit their physical health and mental well-being.
The last few years have been challenging for us all, and as we welcome more students back to campus, the support of our alumni and friends is needed now more than ever to ensure our students have the opportunity to make memories which last a lifetime.
Many charitable trusts and foundations from across the UK work with UWS to educate, nurture and inspire our 20,000 students.
They share our commitment to widening access to higher education.
For eight years, UWS has been recognised as Scotland’s most successful university in ensuring that more people from disadvantaged backgrounds can access higher education (Scottish Funding Council).
Your trust or foundation can make an even bigger impact for our talented students in Ayr, Dumfries, Lanarkshire, London and Paisley.
MAKE A DIFFERENCE TOGETHER Grants of all sizes are vital to raise student aspirations, develop talent, benefit our communities, and deliver research that tackles global issues.
Partner with us and you could support:
HELP UWS DO ALL THIS AND MORE Are you a Trustee, or are you connected with a trust or foundation?
We would love to discuss how UWS aligns with your charitable mission.
Please contact:
Rishaad Ait El Moudden Trust Fundraising Manager rishaad.aitelmoudden@uws.ac.uk
THANK YOU!
We are grateful to the following funders, whose generous support has benefited our students, research and community projects in recent years:
View UWS on OSCR .
Wherever you are in the world, you can make a gift to UWS.
You can send a cheque made payable to 'University of the West of Scotland' to: Fundraising and Alumni, University of the West of Scotland, Paisley PA1 2BE.
Taxpayers in the USA can support UWS through the British Schools and Universities Foundation (BSUF) based in New York City.
You can donate online by credit card or send a cheque.
Please complete the UWS alumni in the USA donation form to accompany your cheque.
Your gift will support new buildings and equipment across our campuses providing state of the art facilities to enhance teaching, learning and research.
We develop research outputs that have a tangible impact on society across the globe.
Your gift will support cutting edge facilities, specialist staff and world-leading expertise.
Our vision is to be among the global leaders of excellent, relevant and purposeful research aligned with the UN Sustainable Development Goals.
We are committed to sustainability and building on our existing research and education strengths, transforming our world and improving lives.
Your gift will support cutting edge equipment, specialist staff and world-leading expertise.
Leaving a gift in your Will to UWS supports the great breadth of our work as all gifts are directed to the MacLean Memorial Endowment Trust.
The MacLean Memorial Endowment Trust invests your gift carefully, gradually growing the capital and generating income to support the University for many generations to come.
Angus MacLean was the first Principal of Paisley Technical School appointed in March 1899.
He was a native of Tarbert, Loch Fyne, Scotland and a graduate of the University of Glasgow, where he was a distinguished student of Mathematics and Natural Philosophy.
A gift from his family started the MacLean Memorial Endowment Trust.
If you are considering support us in this way, please email supportus@uws.ac.uk or call us on 0141 848 3084 for a no obligation conversation.
Alternatively, if you are ready to instruct your solicitor, please provide them with the details below.
Scottish Charity number Charity number SC002520
University of the West of Scotland Paisley Campus, High Street, Paisley, PA1 2BE.
Scotland United Kingdom

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/money-fees-funding/scholarships/uws-postgraduate-tuition-fee-offer:
Value
20% tuition fee discount for full-time master's or research degrees
Current Student, Alumni
Fee Status
Scotland, All other UK & Republic of Ireland, International
Level
Postgraduate Taught, Postgraduate Research
Subjects
Business, Computing, Creative Industries, Education, Engineering, Health, Life Sciences, Physical & Chemical Sciences, Social sciences, Sport
Study Mode
Full time
Application Deadline: Most postgraduate courses start in either January or September.
The UWS Postgraduate Tuition Fee Offer is for UWS Alumni or UWS undergraduate students in their final year of study, who wish to progress to full-time postgraduate study at UWS.
This includes taught postgraduate (MA, MSc, MProf) studies or research (MRes / MPhil / PhD) studies.
If you're an existing UWS undergraduate student completing your studies and you wish to progress on to a full-time UWS master's degree, you can take advantage of our 20% discount on master's degree tuition fees (20% discount on the first year tuition fees)* .
You may also be able to fast-track your application.
Contact us for more information on how to fast-track your application.
Fast Track Application
UWS Students wishing to progress from a Postgraduate Taught to a full-time Postgraduate Research Degree are eligible for a 20% discount in their first year or their first three years of a PhD course.
If you're a former UWS student, you are automatically a member of our Alumni Association and may be eligible for a 20% discount on the first year of postgraduate degree tuition fees* or the first three years of PhD tuition fees.
Amount: 20% discount on the first year tuition fees.
*Conditions:
Application: Awarded automatically
We will always try to make sure that we publish accurate scholarship and bursary information but we do not accept responsibility for any mistakes or omissions.
Please note that this scholarship cannot be used in conjunction with any other UWS scholarship or bursary.
Your are, of course, welcome to apply for external scholarships and bursaries which can be used with this particular scholarship.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/alumni/benefits:
Besides being part of an extensive worldwide professional and academic network, which will help develop your career, you will be delighted to know that UWS alumni are eligible for a range of benefits.
If you are a former student of the university, you are automatically a member of our Alumni Association and may be eligible for a 20% discount on masters’ degree tuition fees* for full-time study.
Please contact Fundraising & Alumni at alumni@uws.ac.uk to confirm your eligibility.
If you are an existing UWS undergraduate student and wish to progress on to a UWS master's degree, not only can you take advantage of our 20% master's degree tuition fee discount*, you can also fast-track your application .
* This discount cannot be combined with any other tuition fee discount or scholarship.
Applies to self-funding UWS Alumni / completing students enrolled in a UWS master's degree on a full-time study basis at one of our Scottish campuses.
This offer does not apply to PGDE, MEng, PgCert or PgDip programmes of study.
To qualify, students are required to have studied at UWS, or a previous higher education institution which is now part of UWS, for at least one year and meet the master's degree entry requirements.
UWS delivers a wide range of professional courses from half-day workshops, accredited professional certificates to academic modules tailor-made to help you take that next step in your career.
If you are a former student of the university, you are automatically a member of our Alumni Association and may be eligible for a 20% discount on selected CPD courses at UWS.
Find out more about CPD discount here .
(*To qualify, students are required to have studied at UWS, or a previous higher education institution which is now part of UWS, for at least one year and meet entry requirements.)
UWS Alumni can continue to access careers advice from the Careers Team for up to five years after graduation.
The Careers Team hosts a dedicated careers website for Alumni offering relevant information, advice and guidance, along with appointment and event booking.
Click here to register your Alumni Account .
Once registered you will receive log in details to give you access to a range of resources including:
Already registered?
Click here to log in with your personal email address and your password.
You can also register an Alumni Account on the UWS TargetConnect Vacancies website .
If you have any problems accessing any of the Careers resources please email careers@uws.ac.uk
Many recent graduates benefit from being paired up with a mentor from the alumni community.
Mentors are selected to offer relevant experience of your profession or sector.
They act as guides and sounding-boards for your career development.
Email alumni@uws.ac.uk if you would like to mentor or be mentored.
When you are no longer a student, it is important to review your finances and understand how this change can impact your entitlement to funding, such as benefits.
We have collated the information below to help you.
If you had a student bank account and/or overdraft it is important to talk to your bank about this.
You might need to change the type of bank account you have and will need to understand how your overdraft will change, and how long you might have to repay this before interest is added.
Anytime your income changes, whether it is increasing or decreasing, it is a good idea to review your financial commitments and prepare a budget.
We recommend the Money Advice Service Budget Planner , which is a free online tool that helps you assess your money situation.
You can create an account which will allow you to log in and update your budget regularly, which is the best way to stay on top of your finances and get the most out of your money.
You may have been in receipt of some benefits during your studies, but it is important to remember that your student status may have impacted this.
Now that you are no longer a student, you should ensure you are reassessed for benefits in order to access your full entitlement.
The world of benefits can be complex, so we recommend you get advice from a professional, such as Citizens Advice Scotland , Turn2Us , or advice centres in your local authority.
We know that you will be missing your student discount so we have teamed up with Perks - an exclusive shopping platform offering over 30,000 unique discounts - for alumni to save money.
There are virtual FREE courses for kids and adults, focused on fitness and fun and discounts for buying goods, updating your wardrobe or planning a trip.
To Register go to the Perks website and click ‘Register for Free’
(Please note this platform is not operated by UWS - please check their terms and conditions before registering.)
You can borrow up to five books for four weeks at a time from any campus library.
To apply, bring your ID and proof of graduation (a copy of your qualification certificate would be ideal) to your local campus library .
Alumni can access the University's sport facilities for a special rate and will also receive a discounted fee on gym membership.
Please bring your ID and proof of graduation (a copy of your qualification certificate would be ideal) to your local campus sports centre .
There are lots of great resources for help and advice with your mental and physical wellbeing on NHS Inform Healthy Living website .
The organisation Breathing Space offer guided self-help and coaching free of charge

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/alumni/reunions-and-networks:
Meet old classmates, lecturers, current students and fellow alumni.
We offer a wide variety of events, ranging from reunions to guest lectures and networking sessions.
Don't forget to update your contact details to be kept up to date with events taking place near you.
Alumni joined guests and colleagues including Principal and Vice-Chancellor, Professor James Miller to proudly represent UWS in New York in April 2024.
The parade brings together clans, bands, university graduates, community groups and people across the United States who celebrate their connection to Scotland and the contribution Scots have made to the USA.
The University was delighted to welcome back over 80 alumni to the Paisley Campus in August 2023 to celebrate the ground-breaking Land Economics programme.
It was wonderful to have representation from the class of 1972 right up to 1997 in the Brough Hall (now known as Chancellor’s Hall), to recount memories of academic staff, field trips and friendships formed whilst studying on the Land Economics course.
Some of Paisley’s first-ever graduates were among the UWS alumni who returned for a special celebration of half a century of graduation in the town.
In all, 80 alumni, honorary graduates, staff, friends and supporters of UWS gathered for the alumni dinner.
They marked the approval in 1966 of the then Paisley College of Technology’s Honours degrees in Chemistry and Physics and an Ordinary degree in Science by the Council for National Academic Awards.
Are you approaching a special academic milestone?
Or just planning to get together with old university friends?
The UWS Alumni Association can help you organise a memorable celebration.
For instance, we can help you track down lost friends, or recommend venues in our local areas.
Whether or not you’d like us to help, please let us know about your plans.
We’re keen to publish news and photographs from alumni gatherings.
The 1966 cohort was represented by four biology, science and physics graduates: Russell Henry, George Langley, Graham Milne and Hamish Vernal.
Special recognition was given to 1966 Civil Engineering graduate, Dipak Basu who travelled from Canada to attend the dinner.
Other alumni returning for the event included the Rt Hon Lord McFall of Acluith, member of the House of Lords; Willie Rennie MSP, leader of the Scottish Liberal Democrats; Iain Henderson, Paisley First President; and Councillor Hamish Vernal, Provost of Aberdeenshire.
View the film below commissioned to mark this 50 year milestone.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/alumni/stories:
Share your academic and career story with other alumni.
Send us your profile details so we can build a complete picture of the diverse activities and achievements of our former students.
Alumni are featured on our alumni blog , social media channels and e-newsletter.
Please email alumni@uws.ac.uk if you would like to be featured.
We look forward to hearing from you!
Gordon McConnell is internationally recognised as chief engineer of the iconic and innovative Airbus A350, the ultra-long range aircraft transforming the future of air travel.
He has been awarded the Royal Aeronautical Society’s Gold Medal – an honour he shares with those other flight pioneers, Wilbur and Orville Wright.
But Gordon’s career had a bumpy start.
Gordon failed his first year exams at University of Strathclyde.
Rather than resit, he opted to start again at the then Paisley College of Technology (now University of the West of Scotland).
Sophie Grant, who writes under the name Sophie Gravia, has always had a love for the English language, and during the pandemic in 2020 she started writing a blog as a distraction from the ongoing pandemic and her long shifts as a renal nurse.
Sophie’s debut novel A Glasgow Kiss became a word-of-mouth phenomenon when it was released in December 2020, securing her the no1 best-seller spot on Amazon.
Business and Management graduate Gurjit Singh Lalli is an entrepreneur with a keen interest in philanthropy and developing social venture capital firms.
An avid TED fan, Gurjit acquired the licence for TEDxGlasgow in 2012, bringing together a team of volunteers to form an organisation that is now one of the most established TEDx events in the UK and Europe.
Gurjit was named Businessman of the Year at the 2014 Scottish Asian Business Awards.
Lanarkshire-born businessman Les Hutchison is the quiet philanthropist.
He has a strong belief in “giving something back” but he does it without fanfare.
He has, however, made an exception for his recent very generous financial donation to University activity, by allowing us to feature him in the hope that it will inspire others in his position to follow his example.
Les, who left Bell College of Technology (now part of UWS) with an HNC Electrical Engineering in 1975, went on to become Vice Chair and a Director of the Canadian energy services company, ShawCor Ltd and owner of Motherwell FC before transferring the club into fan ownership in 2016.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/alumni/replacement-documents:
We know that sometimes accidents can happen and that over time you may lose or misplace your degree parchments or academic transcripts.
Don't worry, we can always help with replacements.
Have you lost your UWS degree certificate?
Don't worry!
You can purchase a replacement award certificate.
Please email alumni@uws.ac.uk for more information.
If you’re a graduate of one of our founding institutions (Paisley College of Technology, Paisley College, University of Paisley, Bell College of Technology, Bell College, Craigie College of Education), please email alumni@uws.ac.uk for more help and information.
You can request a replacement academic transcript from Registry.
We can provide authorised academic transcripts for the majority of taught programmes from UWS and from its predecessor institutions (University of Paisley; Bell College of Technology; and Paisley College of Technology).
Order your academic transcripts

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/alumni/manage-your-contact-details:
Make sure you stay in touch with the university and continue to get updates on old friends, new developments, offers and benefits.
Please use the form below to register or to let us know of any changes in your details.
Once you’ve registered with us, we’ll keep you up to date with our e-newsletter every month.
And if you’re still in touch with former classmates, please encourage them to register their details too.
This privacy notice explains when and why we collect personal information about you and how we will use this information including the ways we might share this with others.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/about-uws/governance:
The University Court is the governing body of the University.
The Court has wide ranging powers, in particular relating to the strategic direction of the University and the execution of the University’s financial responsibilities.
The Court has delegated powers related to purely academic matters to the Senate.
The University Senate is responsible for the overall planning, co-ordination, development and supervision of the academic work of the University.
Under the University’s Constitution the Senate has responsibility for granting the University’s academic awards.
The Chair of Court has responsibility for the leadership of the University Court, ensuring it operates effectively and in accordance with the University’s Constitution.
The Chair also plays a key role in ensuring the institution is well connected with its stakeholders, including staff and students.
The Principal and Vice-Chancellor is appointed by the University Court as the chief academic and administrative officer of the University.
The Principal is the Chair of the Senate and the Designated (Accounting) Officer under the terms of the SFC Financial Memorandum.
Responsibility for the day-to-day running of the University rests with the Principal and Vice-Chancellor.
The Secretary to Court is a Court appointment and has responsibility for ensuring that the business of the Court is conducted in accordance with the University's constitution and any legislation, rules or regulations to which the University is subject.
The Secretary to Court is a source of professional advice to the Court, its members and to the Principal & Vice-Chancellor.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/about-uws/vice-chancellors-executive:
Principal and Vice-Chancellor
VCOffice@uws.ac.uk
Senior Executive Officer : Jillian Wright
jillian.wright@uws.ac.uk
Professor James Miller FRSE was appointed as Principal and Vice-Chancellor of University of the West of Scotland (UWS) in November 2022.
Beginning his career as a clinical nurse in Edinburgh, Professor Miller is the first nurse to be appointed as a University Principal and Vice-Chancellor in Scotland – bringing a wealth of experience, values and vision closely aligned with that of UWS.
Professor Miller has also held a series of roles in healthcare, including Deputy Director of Nursing for West Lothian Healthcare Trust and Divisional General Manager in South Glasgow University Hospital NHS Trust.
After completing his registration at North Lothian College of Nursing and Midwifery in 1986, Professor Miller undertook a post registration degree at what is now Abertay University.
He also has an MBA from Edinburgh Napier University, a PhD from the University of Edinburgh and is an alumnus of Harvard University’s Institute of Education Management.
Professor Miller has been a visiting lecturer at four Scottish universities, teaching on undergraduate and Masters programmes in nursing, healthcare management and clinical leadership.
He has published in peer-reviewed national and international journals on a range of clinical and management issues in healthcare and is a regular reviewer for several journals.
Professor Miller was Deputy Vice-Chancellor of Glasgow Caledonian University from August 2015 to November 2022 and previously held a range of other senior roles, including Director of the Open University in Scotland and Chief Executive of the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Glasgow.
He is also a Fellow of the Royal Society of Medicine, a member of the International Advisory Board for the Amity University Group in India and was a founder member of the British Council’s Digital Advisory Board.
In 2023, James was appointed a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh.
He holds board positions with a range of HE associated institutions, including the Carnegie Trust for the Universities of Scotland, the Association of Commonwealth Universities Council and the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS).
James also contributes to the boards of the Scottish Chamber Orchestra and the Prince and Princess of Wales Hospice.
A former Convener of Universities Scotland’s International Committee as well as the Learning and teaching Committee he was elected as the overall Convener of Universities Scotland and Vice-President of Universities UK in August 2025.
Interim Deputy Vice-Chancellor and Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Research and Innovation)
robert.macintosh@uws.ac.uk
Executive Assistant: Beth McGregor
beth.mcgregor@uws.ac.uk
Robert joined the University in October 2024 from Northumbria University, where he was Pro Vice-Chancellor for Business and Law.
Robert is responsible for the leadership and management of research and innovation across the University and, on an interim basis as Deputy Vice-Chancellor has oversight of the four schools that comprise UWS.
With a PhD in engineering and a track record of research in the field of strategic management, Robert has published 10 books and over 100 articles.
He is a co-investigator on the UKRI-funded EDI Caucus and has held senior positions at Heriot-Watt University, University of Glasgow, and University of Strathclyde.
He previously served as Chair of the Chartered Association of Business Schools, was formerly Chair of the social care charity, Turning Point Scotland, and is currently a board member at Revenue Scotland.
Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Learning, Teaching and Student Success)
Rachel.cragg@uws.ac.uk
Executive Assistant : Susan Adams
Susan.adams@uws.ac.uk
Rachel joined the university in January 2024 from Buckinghamshire New University where she was Senior PVC Education and Digital.
Alongside her rich experience in senior leadership roles at the University of Central Lancashire and the Open University, Rachel enjoyed a decade working in Police Professional Development, having been instrumental in the development and launch of the world’s first professional body for policing; The College of Policing.
Having begun her academic career as a social and economic geographer Rachel now has a keen interest the role universities play in in providing access to education for all and the particular importance of providing technical and vocational education.
She has published on culture, change and community in higher education.
Vice-Principal (Planning and Recruitment)
marcus.ross@uws.ac.uk
Executive Assistant : Lynne Reid
lynne.reid@uws.ac.uk
Marcus has worked in higher education for more than 20 years across a number of professional disciplines, predominantly linked to marketing, covering areas such as organisational strategy and performance, PR, publishing, research, student recruitment, Public Affairs, fundraising, alumni, international marketing and events.
In recent years, he has also led services such as Estates and Commercial Services, as well as various corporate level projects, in addition to the marketing and communications portfolio.
Marcus was also Programme Director for the development of the University’s Lanarkshire Campus – leading the team that delivered the award-winning £110 million campus, which is now widely recognised as one of Scotland’s most innovative and flexible higher education learning environments.
As Vice-Principal (Planning and Recruitment), Marcus has Executive responsibility for Strategic Planning, Marketing, Student Recruitment, London Campus and the Programme Management Office.
Marcus is also Executive sponsor for the University’s campuses in Ayr and Dumfries.
Vice-Principal (Finance and Infrastructure)
archie.maciver@uws.ac.uk
Executive Assistant : Carol Patton
carol.patton@uws.ac.uk
Archie has more than 25 years’ experience in a variety of management and leadership roles and has led finance functions within a number of large and complex organisations.
A qualified Chartered Accountant, Archie trained in Dundee before gaining significant operational experience across the education, utilities, financial services and transport sectors.
Archie has been with UWS since March 2020, previously as Director of Finance.
Archie has Executive responsibility for Finance, Campus Services (Estates, Maintenance, Halls of Residence, Catering and Commercial), Information Services (IT and Libraries) and Internal Audit.
Donna McMillan, Vice-Principal (Governance) and University Secretary
donna.mcmillan@uws.ac.uk
As Vice-Principal (Governance) and the University Secretary, Donna heads the Court and Senate Office and has Executive responsibility for corporate governance as the Secretary to the Court and academic governance as the Secretary to Senate, as well as leading on Legal Services and Risk and Resilience.
The Vice-Principal (Governance) and University Secretary ensures the University meets its legislative and regulatory responsibilities, oversees all constitutional and ceremonial matters for the University, including arrangements for the Chancellor, and promotes the history and heritage of the Institution.
With significant experience in higher education, Donna has previously led on institutional Quality Assurance and Enhancement, Health and Safety and Registry.
Interim Vice-Principal (People & Student Wellbeing)
marie.liston@uws.ac.uk
Marie has over 25 years’ experience in senior human resources roles, working primarily in the retail and financial services sectors.
Marie is a Chartered Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development and is also a Fellow of the Institute of Directors.
Marie has significant experience of working with boards in both executive and non-executive capacities.
In addition to retail sector board experience, Marie has worked within the charity, health and grass-roots sport arenas.
Marie is currently an Associate Non-Executive Director with North-East Ambulance Service and Chair of their charity.
Marie joined UWS in June 2025 as Interim Vice-Principal (People & Student Wellbeing).
Vice-Principal (Internationalisation)
stephanie.pitticas@uws.ac.uk
Before joining University of the West of Scotland, Stephanie was Glasgow Caledonian University’s Director of Recruitment and Admissions and Director of the University’s London campus.
At GCU, Stephanie’s role included leadership of various international functions and partnerships, student support and administration.
Stephanie was also previously Head of Admissions at Regent’s University London, where she delivered leadership, driving improvements in the applicant student journey and increases in student recruitment numbers.
At UWS, Stephanie, who began her career in international student recruitment, is responsible for developing a cohesive, University-wide approach to all aspects of internationalisation, with a particular focus on developing a new Transnational Education (TNE) strategy for the University.
As well as bringing a new strategic focus to TNE, Stephanie works with the Deans of the University’s four academic Schools to drive internationalisation, through enhancing the curriculum and student experience.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/about-uws/academic-schools:
UWS is organised into four academic Schools for learning, teaching and research.
Our professionally-focused business courses and practitioner-focused creative industries courses will equip you to make an immediate impact to business or creative industries.
Building on a heritage of over 100 years' experience of engineering and technology education, our bachelors, masters and research courses help change the world.
Our School of Education & Social Sciences combines our UK-leading Education provision with over 50 years’ experience in offering teaching and research in the West of Scotland
The largest faculty of its kind in Scotland offering innovative teaching, firmly focused on the real-world challenges facing today’s health care and life sciences.
Officially recognised by Times Higher Education in the top 300 universities worldwide as assessed against the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
UWS was the 2nd most impactful university in Scotland and 26th most impactful university in the world for 'reducing inequalities' (UNSDG 10) (Times Higher Education Impact Rankings 2025)

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/about-uws/uws-commitments:
You can find out more about each of these areas on the pages below:

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/about-uws/compliance:
UWS complies with the Data Protection Act 2018: creating reliable and accurate records, filing them correctly, retaining them for the accepted period of time and disposing of them appropriately.
Information on the strategy and financial management of UWS.
UWS's procurement policies and information for suppliers.
Details of the Freedom of Information (Scotland) Act 2002, its implications for UWS and how to make a FOI request.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/about-uws/working-at-uws:
UWS is a modern, exciting, and rewarding place to work
University of the West of Scotland (UWS) is a large, modern, multi-campus University with its origins dating back to 1897.
We have four campuses across the west and southwest of Scotland and one in London.
UWS is a great place to work.
We are a university that genuinely cares for our employees.
Explore our job vacancies
All our employees are at the heart of our business and having the right people in place and retaining them is key to our success as a University.
Rewarding our employees is an important component of our employment package and the University has a wide range of excellent benefits on offer to staff.
These can enhance your personal and professional development, your health and wellbeing, your finances, and also help support the University’s policies on issues such as sustainable travel.
Benefits of working at UWS (pdf)
Our Scottish campuses are located within historic towns that allow easy commuting to Scotland's largest city, Glasgow or Scotland's capital city, Edinburgh.
Our London Campus, which offers modern and dynamic, flexible work spaces, is located in the historic London Docklands, a short walk from East India DLR station.
Our Professional Services teams are the backbone of UWS.
They provide robust and innovative solutions to support the vast range of work across learning and teaching, and research and innovation.
If you take up a post in one of our Professional Services departments, you'll join a supportive and dedicated team.
You will play a key role in a range of work that will help drive forward the University’s ambition to deliver world-leading research, and graduates who will design, shape and build a new future.
Discover more about Professional support Services
UWS has a global outlook.
It enjoys successful partnerships with educational institutions and businesses around the world.
UWS is committed to ensuring that equality is at the heart of everything that it does in order to raise aspirations, increase opportunities and inspire achievement.
At UWS we advance and promote equality and diversity in all of our activities.
We aim to establish an inclusive culture, free from discrimination and based upon the values of fairness, dignity and respect.
We are committed to enhancing wellbeing and have the structures, leadership and support in place to embed equality, diversity and inclusion into everything we do.
Our work in Equality, Diversity and Inclusion

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/create-a-personalised-digital-prospectus:
Create an Undergraduate prospectus Create a Postgraduate prospectus

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/student-support-wellbeing/widening-access-at-uws:
At UWS, widening access has always been central to our institution.
Widening access addresses patterns of under-representation in higher education.
It's also part of a governmental education policy in Scotland and the UK.
Widening access attempts to increase the proportion of people entering higher education, from under-represented groups.
UWS works with prospective students from groups that are currently under-represented, including students:
UWS is committed to Widening Access.
We work on many pre-entry initiatives to encourage applicants from all backgrounds to realise their full potential.
For more information on any of the above programmes please contact the WeCare team: WeCare@uws.ac.uk
We also offer additional support to asylum seekers and refugees and military veterans and their families at UWS.
For more information, please email ask@uws.ac.uk
This document provides the intended action that UWS will commit to through the outcome agreement with the Scottish Funding Council for 2023-24.
It details the institution’s actions to achieve the key priorities set out by the Scottish Funding Council (SFC) in its guidance document for 2023-24.
View the UWS 2023-24 Outcome Agreement
For more information, please visit the following pages:

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/i-found-my-place:
Hear from our students on why UWS is the place for you.
Elizabeth found her place at UWS – find yours!
Lisa found her place at UWS – find yours!
More of our students tell their UWS story.
Find out how Alesha found her place at UWS and feels welcomed and accepted.
Find out how Rafail found his place at UWS and is enjoying his time in Scotland.
Find out how Chigo found his place at UWS and how he feels supported.
Find out how Nicole found her place at UWS and is enjoying her role as Team UWS Sports President.
Find out how Blair found his place at UWS and feels part of something exciting.
Find out how Janine found her place at UWS and is loving the University campus.
Find out how Iain found his place at UWS and is on the path to starting a brand new career.
Find out how Sana found her place at UWS and feels part of something amazing.
Find out how they found their place at UWS!
Find out how Charlie found his place at UWS and feels part of something amazing.
Find out how Karen found her place at UWS and the way to her dream career.
Find out how Cal found his place at UWS and real support.
Find out how Adam found his place at UWS and feels part of something amazing
Find out how Brian found his place at UWS and feels part of something amazing.
Find out how Christie found her place at UWS and feels part of something amazing.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/money-fees-funding/undergraduate-fees-funding:
All undergraduate tuition fees are published on each individual course web entry.
Details are provided for Scottish, UK (English, Welsh and Northern Irish), Republic of Ireland and all other international (all other EU and non-EU) students for full-time, and part-time (where appropriate) study at any of our campuses (or online where, and if, appropriate).
Check out our full list of undergraduate courses using the course finder, below.
Scottish students studying at undergraduate level at UWS may be entitled to various funds and support towards tuition fees and living costs.
English, Welsh and Northern Irish students studying at undergraduate level at UWS may be entitled to various funds and support towards tuition fees and living costs.
If you are an EU national, it's important to understand how the UK's departure from the European Union may affect your tuition fee status.
There are several scholarship, grants and incentive schemes available to international students studying an undergraduate degree at UWS.
Download details of our full-time, part-time tuition fees for Bachelor, Masters, Research, modular and English Language pre-sessional courses for academic session 2023-24 for those studying at any of our campuses, or online.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/money-fees-funding/postgraduate-fees-funding:
All tuition fees for taught postgraduate courses are published on each individual course web entry.
Details are provided for Scottish, UK (English, Welsh and Northern Irish), Republic of Ireland and all other international (all other EU and non-EU) students for full-time, and part-time (where approapriate) study at any of our campuses (or online where, and if, appropriate).
Check out our full list of postgraduate courses using the course finder , below.
Tution fees for Postgraduate Research degree are detailed separately and by subject area.
For more information visit the dedicated webpage:
Research Degrees Tuition Fees
Scottish students studying at postgraduate level at UWS may be entitled to various funds and support towards tuition fees and living costs.
English, Welsh and Northern Irish students studying at postgraduate level at UWS may be entitled to alternative sources of university funding that can help towards tuition fees and living costs.
There are several scholarship, grants and incentive schemes available to international students studying an postgraduate degree at UWS.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/money-fees-funding/scholarships:
{{persona}}{{$last ?
Deadline
{{ result.ApplicationDeadline }}

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/research-degrees/admissions-application:
We are delighted that you are considering applying to study at the University of the West of Scotland.
Here you can find more information about:
If you are ordinarily resident outside the UK you might find our step-by-step guide for international students useful.
Apply for Research Degree
Explore your postgraduate research options below
A step-by-step guide to applying for a postgraduate research degree at University of the West of Scotland.
The academic entry requirements you'll need to begin a postgraduate research degree at UWS.
For applicants whose first language is not English, the University sets a minimum English Language proficiency level.
The qualifications below must have been gained within two years of the start of your course.
General English language requirements at UWS: International English Language Testing System (IELTS) Academic module (not General Training)
For our research degrees (MRes, MPhil, PhD, DBA, DProf), applicants are required to have an IELTS score as follows:
Equivalent scores in another recognised qualification: are listed below as too are details of our pre-sessional English Language courses for those who do not meet the required English language criteria prior to commencing their studies.
All academic degrees/awards at UWS are taught in English.
For applicants whose first language is not English*, the University sets a minimum English language proficiency level.
All English language qualifications must have been gained within two years of the start of your UWS course.
* applicants who are exempt from English language requirements include:
In general terms, if you are applying to study a course at, or above, Year 1 (SCQF Level 7) bachelor’s degree level, then the UKVI’s minimum level of English proficiency is Common European Framework for References of Languages (CEFR) at B2 (Upper Intermediate).
At UWS, we define our general English language requirements using the International English Language Testing System (IELTS) Academic module ( not General Training ) as follows:
† Exceptions to this level of IELTS scoring exist for some accredited or professionally-recognised courses (see IELTS Score Exceptions section below for more information).
For our research degrees ( MRes, MPhil, PhD, DBA, DProf ) applicants are required to have an IELTS score as follows:
For Midwifery courses that lead to professional registration with the Nursing & Midwifery Council (BSc Midwifery ), applicants are required to have an IELTS score as follows:
Our BSc Paramedic Science degree leads to professional registration with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC); it has different IELTS requirements than other Health-related courses.
Although it is not possible to apply for this degree directly as an international student , for applicants who meet SAAS residency requirements and for whom English is not their first language, then the following IELTS scores are required:
For our BSc (Hons) Biomedical Science and MSc Advanced Biomedical Science degrees , which may lead to professional registration with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC), applicants are required to have an IELTS score as follows:
Our BA (Hons) Social Work and MSc Social Work degrees are professionally recognised by the Scottish Social Services Council and applicants are required to have an IELTS score as follows:
In additional to IELTS, we also accept a number of alternative English language for application and admission to our courses for both home/EU and international students at bachelor's degree study at Year 3 (SCQF Level 9), and above.
From Cambridge to TOFEL iBT qualifications the number of these qualifications is extensive.
Find out about non-IELTS English Language Tests
UWS has also reviewed a range of High / Secondary School qualifications studied by non-EU applicants that can be used as a basis of entry to a UWS.
These range from Botswana GCSEs to USA High School Graduation Diplomas, the number of these qualifications is extensive.
Find out more about international English Language high-hchool qualifications
Applicants who do not meet the minimum English language requirements have the option to study one of our preparatory and pre-sessional English courses.
The UWS courses available are:
Find out more about our English language Courses.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/admissions-application:
Everything you need to know about applying for an undergraduate degree at UWS.
This page explains and outlines the entry requirements you'll need to meet to study at UWS for an undergraduate degree: BAcc, BA, BEd, BEng/MEng, BSc.
Entry to some undergraduate courses include applicant interviews to help us to assess your personal attributes as well as your academic qualifications.
In addition to the above information, if you are ordinarily resident in a country outside the EU, you might also find the following information useful.
Step-by-step guide to the UWS undergraduate application process for international students.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/college-to-uni:
As one of Scotland's most inclusive universities, we’re proud to welcome over a thousand students from colleges in Scotland each year to our courses.
At UWS, we have a dedicated College Team to support students joining us from college, as well as an excellent programme of transition support both for students entering at Year 1 or articulating into Year 2 or 3 of a degree.
We welcome students to our degree programmes with a range of college qualifications, including Scottish Wider Access Programme (SWAP) qualifications, HNC and HND qualifications.
Whether you have been offered a place at UWS or have yet to apply, the UWS College Team provide a dedicated service to guide you through the process and help you develop your skills and confidence to make the move into university study.
Find out more below about your study options, dedicated support available and upcoming events to support you with the move to university.
If your qualifications are not listed, please get in touch and we'd be happy to advise.
As a partner institution, UWS works closely with colleagues on the Scottish Wider Access Programme (SWAP).
We help ensure students can progress into a range of degree options at the University in subjects such as science, business, nursing, paramedic science, teaching, engineering, law and social work.
SWAP students who are interested in applying to UWS are offered a dedicated programme of transition support throughout their time at college before joining a UWS degree.
This includes access to a range of events and workshops both online and in person at a UWS campus.
There's also access to a bespoke online toolkit to help you develop your skills and prepare you for the move to university.
SWAP students can also make a 1-to-1 advice appointment with our dedicated College Team.
Here, you can ask any questions about study options at UWS, the application process or any other aspect of life as a student at university.
The Scottish Wider Access Programme (SWAP) is a 1-year full-time course.
It supports access to higher education for adult learners.
SWAP access programmes are delivered by colleges across Scotland and are a proven route into degree courses.
If you're interested in studying for a SWAP qualification in college within Glasgow and the West of Scotland, you can check SWAP West courses available at local colleges .
For Edinburgh and the East of Scotland, you can check SWAP East courses available at local colleges .
You can gain entry to a range of degree options at UWS with your SWAP qualification.
Over 80% of our undergraduate courses offer Year 1 entry with a SWAP access qualification.
Discover our undergraduate degree options and entry requirements at UWS.
If you’re not sure about your qualifications or options, please get in touch.
At UWS we're proud to offer direct entry options to over 90% of our degree programmes, making us the largest provider of articulation in Scotland.
We are renowned for the programme of transition support that we offer to our students joining us with HNC and HND qualifications.
Entry points are available at Year 1, as well as articulation to Year 2 or 3 or our degrees.
College to Uni Pathways Guide (pdf)
You can find more information on articulation, study options and our Associate Student Scheme below.
Articulation is when students who are studying on an HNC or HND course at college progress into Year 2 or Year 3 of an undergraduate degree at UWS.
Over 90% of UWS undergraduate degree courses have these advanced entry points, so you can take your college qualifications to the next level.
We work closely with our partner colleges across Scotland to ensure there are suitable articulation routes into our degree programmes, creating seamless progression routes for all students.
All of our undergraduate degree programmes at UWS accept HNC or HND qualifications for entry.
Over 90% of our degrees have possible advanced entry options available.
Check out our College to Uni pathways guide (PDF) for information on where your HNC and HND qualifications can take you at UWS.
We accept a range of qualifications at UWS for entry to our degrees.
If your qualifications are not listed here, reach out to the team and we'd be happy to advise you on your options.
Our Associate Student Scheme is designed for you if you are studying for either an HNC or HND qualification at one of our partner colleges and plan to articulate into a degree programme at UWS.
*Selected degree courses only
Apply for UWS Associate Scheme (Microsoft office form)
UWS is proud to work closely with our 10 partner colleges across Scotland.
The University of the West of Scotland and our partner colleges are firmly focused on ensuring that the move from college to university level study is as smooth as possible for our students.
UWS has several study options available in our partner colleges, allowing you to continue to degree level study whilst remaining at your local college.
Find details of our partner colleges and in-college study options below:
Find out more about our degree options at partner colleges (PDF)
We're hosting a number of events in 2025 where you can meet the team and ask any questions you have.
We look forward to seeing you!
Check back for more events
We have a dedicated team who are here to help you if you have any questions about transitioning from college to university.
You can email us at collegeteam@uws.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/uws-advance-programme:
Designed exclusively for students currently studying at college, the UWS Advance Programme aims to provide year-round support, guidance and information, all tailored to help you prepare for university-level study and life at UWS.
In addition to the wide range of programme benefits, you can access support at any point throughout your time at college by booking a one-to-one with a member of our dedicated UWS College Team or sending us your questions at collegeteam@uws.ac.uk.
UWS Advance is designed in three clear stages:
You will be introduced to UWS and the support that we offer our students as well as the chance to explore the range of opportunities you can use your qualifications for, be that direct entry pathways with your HNC/D or the options you have with your SWAP course.
You will also:
This stage will take you from post-UCAS application submission to the end of your college studies.
You will have the opportunity to:
You’ve accepted your offer and you’re joining us in September – we can’t wait to welcome you but don’t worry, the programme continues with:
*This is an optional module delivered by UWS Associate Lecturing staff and would be dependent on demand
Click the button below to register for UWS Advance
Register with UWS Advance
Any more questions?
You can contact UWS College Team for more information:
Email the UWS College Team

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/foundation-academy:
A unique initiative for the University of the West of Scotland
UWS is proud to deliver the UWS Foundation Academy, for senior school pupils across the west of Scotland.
This exciting initiative gives school pupils the opportunity to experience studying at university level, develop academic skills in a specific subject area, and improve the quality of their university application.
The Foundation Academy is now offered to target schools across the west of Scotland.
The UWS Foundation Academy is an innovative programme designed to support senior school pupils in developing key academic and personal skills, preparing a strong university application and providing a first-hand university experience.
The UWS Foundation Academy programme takes an on-campus and in-school blended approach, allowing senior pupils to study at university level and gain a qualification worth 20 credits at SCQF level 7.
Pupils are invited to get involved during their S5 year, with an aim to completing the programme by December of their S6 year.
Check out our video, where pupils and their teachers share their experiences of the UWS Foundation Academy.
UWS Foundation Academy is a great way for senior pupils to:
Successful completion of the programme can be an excellent way to strengthen pupils’ UCAS application to any university.
Pupils who choose to apply to UWS for a degree course could also receive adjusted entry requirements, using the Foundation Academy qualification as an alternative to 1 Higher at B grade for entry to year 1 of the majority of our degree programmes.
You can find full details of the programme, including courses eligible for adjusted entry in our Foundation Academy leaflet:
UWS Foundation Academy Leaflet (PDF)
The Foundation Academy is kindly support by the John Mather Trust.
If your school would like to take part in the UWS Foundation Academy programme, we would love to hear from you.
For more information, email:
foundation-academy@uws.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/i-found-my-place/alannah-education-student:
Alannah studies on our BA (Hons) Education programme at Ayr campus.
Alannah found her place at UWS - find yours!

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/admissions-application/undergraduate-application-guide:
If you’re thinking about studying at University of the West of Scotland, our step-by-step guide should help you to understand the application process.
It’s easy to make an application but there are a few steps that you need to go through to ensure you have everything you need first.
If you live outside the EU, we’ve developed a step-by-step application guide for international students .
Many of our undergraduate bachelor degrees are career-focused and professionally recognised and with more than 60 undergraduate degree courses to choose from, a degree from UWS can get you off to a great start in your career.
Make sure that you meet – or are on course to meet – the academic qualifications for your chosen degree.
You must be able to provide proof of all qualifications to receive an unconditional offer of study at UWS.
Prior to this, you may receive a conditional offer of study until you meet/are able to provide proof of academic / other qualifications etc.
more about undergraduate entry requirements at UWS
If you are a student from either an EU or non-EU country, a country where English is not your main language, you will also be required to meet our English language requirements.
more about English language entry requirements at UWS
Check Your Tuition Fee Status
Check our Undergraduate Course Listing
There is a great deal of financial support available to help you meet the cost of your study.
This ranges from statutory government loans to pay for tuition fees to bursaries to help towards living expenses.
Financial support you might be entitled to
All prospective undergraduate students (UK, Republic of Ireland, other EU and Non-EU) should apply to study at UWS through UCAS .
Only EU and non-EU students applying through an agent or partner should apply to study at UWS via our Online Application System .
The UCAS website has lots of information to steer you through the applications process.
A good place to begin is their getting started page.
Once you’ve registered with UCAS's online applications system, you can start to update your application with the necessary information, including:
You don’t need do it all at once – you can save your progress and sign back in at any time.
Remember that this is the information we’ll use to assess your application.
It’s important to include as much detail as possible to give yourself the best chance of success.
The deadline for 2025 entry is 29 January 2025.
For some courses it may still be possible to apply beyond this period, subject to suitable vacancies remaining.
UCAS charges a fee for the service it provides.
It shouldn’t cost you more than £27.50 (2024 entry) and £28.50 (2025 entry) to apply to study at UWS or any UK university.
When you make your application, please remember to use the UWS institution code U40 and the UCAS course code for the degree you wish to apply for (usually a four digit code, eg H410).
Start your application
Applications for full-time Undergraduate courses starting in January 2025 are made through our online application system .
Once you’ve created an account on our online applications system, you can start completing your application with the necessary information, including:
Applying for part-time study at UWS is a simple process through our online application system .
Before you begin your application, it is important to read the part-time study step-by-step guide for a smooth and stress-free process.
Once you submit your application, you will receive a confirmation email from UCAS that they have received your application.
You will be able to monitor the progress of your application UCAS’s online system.
UCAS will confirm all the details you have submitted to the UWS admissions team for them to make a decision on your application.
Once your application has been processed, UCAS will contact you by email to confirm one of the following decisions:
Find out more about OUR Offers
Once you receive and accept your unconditional offer, it's time to start preparing for life and study at UWS.
Find out more about life at UWS.
View the UWS Criminal Convictions & Charges Procedure

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/postgraduate-part-time-study:
Our part-time postgraduate courses are tailored to fit seamlessly into your busy life, allowing you to continue working while you study.
Led by industry experts, our programmes allow you to develop skills and knowledge you need to excel in your field—without putting your career on hold.
Join a vibrant and supportive academic community as you take the next step toward achieving your personal and professional goals.
Register your interest
Search our postgraduate part-time courses
Explore some of our post-graduate part time courses below.
The MSc in Advanced Biomedical Science aims to give you a balance of theory, practical skills and application of a range of techniques relevant to the biomedical sciences.
MSc Advanced Drone Technology is an innovative, future-focused programme created to address the growing need for specialists in autonomous drone systems.
The course will enable you to build on existing knowledge and skills and to develop both academically, personally and professionally and prepare you to take positions of responsibility.
The MSc in Digital Marketing gives you the skills, knowledge and experience to build a successful career in this fast-growing global sector.
Find out more about our Open Day on 6th November 2025 and find a range of online information sessions to attend and find out more about postgraduate study at UWS.
This innovative programme is designed to meet the evolving needs of professionals.
It offers personalised, accelerated, and impactful development that integrates with existing commitments across a wide range of fields and sectors.
The MProf empowers you to craft a bespoke postgraduate programme tailored to your unique professional and personal development goals.
You'll have the flexibility to select modules from across UWS's extensive portfolio, allowing you to focus on areas most relevant to your own aspirations and interests.
The programme can be studied online or at any of our campuses, and takes one and a half years full-time or two to three years part-time to complete.
Masters in professional practice
Jodi Roberts, MSc Quality Management
Research Excellence Framework (2021)
Alternatively you can email: ask@uws.ac.uk
or phone: 0800 027 1000 (UK) / +44 (0) 141 849 4101 (Out-with UK)

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/continue-your-journey-with-postgraduate-study:
At UWS, your journey doesn’t end with graduation!
Build on your undergraduate achievements, and open doors to new opportunities with our wide range of postgraduate programmes.
Choose from part-time, full-time, and online study options, designed to fit around your busy life.
With intakes in January, May, and September, you can start when it suits you best.
As a current student, you can apply for postgraduate study via our Fast Track application, making the process even easier.
Fast track application
As a UWS graduate, you benefit from a 20% tuition fee discount when applying for full-time Masters and Research degrees.
Explore your postgraduate options at UWS.
Join our online information session to learn more and get your questions answered.
Melissa studies on our MSc Criminology & Criminal Justice programme at Paisley campus.
Melissa, MSc Criminology & Criminal Justice student
Explore our resources around postgraduate study at UWS
The full UWS experience, part-time.
We have a range of flexible study, postgraduate opportunities to explore.
A step-by-step guide to applying for a postgraduate taught degree at University of the West of Scotland.
Postgraduate research degrees and professional doctorates (MRes, MPhil, PhD, DBA, DProf) at UWS enable you to study independently, up to doctorate level.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/open-days-info-sessions/postgraduate-open-evenings-and-events:
Explore your postgraduate and postgraduate research options at a UWS event.
Join our online information sessions or open evenings to learn more and get your questions answered.
6 November, 4:00pm to 7:00pm
Paisley Campus
Join us at our vibrant Paisley campus, explore our wide range of postgraduate programmes, meet our academics, tour our state-of-the-art facilities, and get all your questions answered.
Register for Postgraduate Autumn Open Evening
Register your interest in Postgraduate study

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/i-found-my-place/bikash-advanced-biomedical-science-student:
Bikash studies on our MSc Advanced Biomedical Science programme at Lanarkshire campus.
Bikash found his place at UWS – find yours!

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/i-found-my-place/melissa-criminology-criminal-justice-student:
Melissa found her place at UWS - find yours!

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/i-found-my-place/sitaram-project-management-student:
Sitaram is a postgraduate student on our MSc Project Management programme at Paisley campus.
Sitaram found his place at UWS – find yours!

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/postgraduate-entry-requirements:
While each course has its own specific entry requirements listed on all course pages , there may also be additional academic requirements for admission onto some post graduate degree courses.
For certain awards and subjects (e.g.
PGDE Education), in addition to holding a degree qualification, applicants are also expected to demonstrate good levels of literacy and numeracy.
For example, in the case of PGDE awards, high school passes in English / Mathematics may also be required in addition to your first degree.
We welcome applications from EU and international (non-EU) students studying a wide range of international qualifications.
International applicants will need an equivalent qualification to those advertised on each degree in order to apply to UWS.
Equivalences can be found using the UK National Recognition Information Centre .
If you are an applicant from an EU country and would like to apply outside the Erasmus /Student Exchange Programme agreement, please contact ask@uws.ac.uk for information about the relevant qualifications required.
Additional information about partnerships and UWS representatives in your country can be found in our country information section .
All international applicants are required to meet minimum English language standards prior to joining a programme of study at UWS, with the exception of:
Please note that whilst most degrees at UWS have a similar level of English language requirements, some courses English language requirements are higher.
This is particularly the case in some Nursing and Biomedical course areas.
Please check the specific requirements prior to making an application.
more about English language requirements

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/fast-track-postgraduate-applications:
We have introduced this Fast Track application process for all UWS students who wish to progress from Undergraduate to Postgraduate studies.
Simply complete this short form (below) and we'll be in touch.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/events/2025/november/undergraduate-subject-showcase-2025-paisley-campus:
8 November
11:00 - 14:00
Our Subject Showcase - Paisley Campus gives you the perfect opportunity to get in-person experience of your subject and course of choice before the UCAS application deadline on 14 January 2026.
You will get to experience what studying at UWS is really like, take part in some hands-on activities, chat to our academics and current students, and ask any questions you have.
We look forward to welcoming you to our Subject Showcase - Paisley Campus.
Register for Undergraduate subject showcase - Paisley Campus
11:00  - 14:00

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/events/2025/november/undergraduate-subject-showcase-2025-lanarkshire-campus:
13 November
16:30 - 19:30
Our Subject Showcase - Lanarkshire Campus gives you the perfect opportunity to get in-person experience of your subject and course of choice before the UCAS application deadline on 14 January 2026.
We look forward to welcoming you to our Undergraduate Subject Showcase - Lanarkshire Campus.
Please note there is sufficient free car parking available.
Register for Undergraduate subject showcase - Lanarkshire Campus
16:30  - 19:30

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/events/2025/november/undergraduate-subject-showcase-2025-dumfries-campus:
27 November
Our Subject Showcase - Dumfries Campus gives you the perfect opportunity to get in-person experience of your subject and course of choice before the UCAS application deadline on 14 January 2026.
We look forward to welcoming you to our Subject Showcase - Dumfries Campus.
Register for Undergraduate showcase - Dumfries Campus

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/events/2025/november/undergraduate-subject-showcase-2025-ayr-campus:
29 November
Our Subject Showcase - Ayr Campus gives you the perfect opportunity to get in-person experience of your subject and course of choice before the UCAS application deadline on 14 January 2026.
We look forward to welcoming you to our Undergraduate Subject Showcase - Ayr Campus.
Parking is available on a first-come-first-served basis.
Register for Undergraduate subject showcase - Ayr Campus

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/accounting:
Award
BAcc (Hons)
Duration & study mode
4 years full-time, typically 6 years part-time
School
Business & Creative Industries
Lanarkshire, Paisley
Additional information
Accredited
Study abroad
Ucas code
N400
College partners: September (Yr 3 only)
Lanarkshire: September (Yrs 2 & 3 only)
Paisley: September
This programme is in clearing for students resident in Scotland, Rest of the UK, Republic of Ireland, and EU.
You can apply now through UCAS or our our dedicated Clearing hub where you will also find more information about the Clearing process.
APPLY THROUGH OUR CLEARING HUB
As part of our portfolio review process, the BAcc (Hons) Accounting is being phased out at our Lanarkshire campus.
For those seeking September 2025 entry at our Lanarkshire campus, there will be no Year 1 entry to the degree.
Advanced entry will only be allowed in years 2 and 3 for suitably qualified individuals.
Similarly, for those seeking entry in September 2026, there will be only be advanced entry to Year 3 for suitably qualified individuals.
The Bachelor of Accounting offers you, as a student, an opportunity to study towards a specialised degree which brings substantial professional accreditation and exemptions.
The programme covers a full range of accountancy subjects from financial and management accounting to financial management, taxation, auditing and ancillary areas ensuring the student acquires the necessary specialist and generic transferable skills relevant to a career in the field of accountancy.
The BAcc Accounting is accredited by all the major accountancy bodies including:
ACCA (Association of Chartered Certified Accountants)
CIMA (Chartered Institute of Management Accountants)
ICAS (Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland)
CIFPA (Chartered Institute of Public Finance & Accountancy)
ICAEW (Institute of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales)
AIA (Association of International Accountants)
You will have the option to undertake a one-year placement during your course.
This can either occur between the second and third year, or the third and fourth year.
Placements provides essential practical experience and can boost your job prospects upon graduation.
Placement providers include:
Nichola McGinlay, UWS Accounting graduate and current Business Analyst
Aaron Sweeney, UWS BAcc current student on placement with Hilton
Please visit our Undergraduate Entry Requirements page for information on our different entry requirements, including country-specific details for EU and non-EU qualifications.
Direct entry to Year 2 (with an appropriate HNC) and Year 3 (with an appropriate HND) may be possible.
Year 3 entry to this UWS programme is also offered at Ayrshire College, South Lanarkshire College and New College Lanarkshire under our college partnership agreements.
Please note that these routes are only open to students who have completed an HND in Accounting at those institutions.
Students wishing to complete the Honours year will be required to attend either the Paisley or Lanarkshire campuses.
The BAcc Accounting course covers the full range of accountancy subjects.
You will develop specialist accountancy expertise as well as key transferable skills.
A variety of teaching and learning approaches emphasise the practical aspects of accounting, these include lectures, small group tutorials and workshops.
Highly-qualified professionals and academics and guest speakers will input to the course to provide industry insights and deepen your understanding of:
Studies include financial and management accounting and more general module, which put accountancy into perspective in the business world.
Digital Skills for Accounting and Finance
Financial Accounting 1
Class test: 40%
Examination: 60%
Business Economics
Accountant in Business
Management Accounting 1
Data Analysis
This year develops your financial and management accounting experience and introduces specialised areas of accounting such as personal tax.
Modules include:
Intro to Business Ethics
Financial Accounting 2
Management Accounting 2
Financial Management
Business Law
Employability skills for Accounting and finance.
In-depth financial and management accounting is taught alongside the core module of accounting, providing excellent practical and theoretical knowledge.
Auditing
Management Accounting 3
Personal Tax
Advanced Financial Management
Business Taxation
Financial Accounting 3
You will complete a dissertation on a topic of your choice and will study the development of accounting standards and contemporary issues in accounting.
Honours Dissertation (part 1)
Research Methods for Accounting and Finance
Finance in a Digital World
Honours Dissertation (part 2)
Term 2 Options
Contemporary Accounting Issues
Personal Finance
Financial Modelling & Change Management
Public Sector Accounting
Python for Accounting and finance
In line with the Academic Engagement and Attendance Procedure, Students are defined as academically engaged if they are regularly engaged with timetabled teaching sessions, course-related learning resources including those in the Library and on Moodle, Aula and complete assessments and submit these on time.
For the purposes of this programme, this equates to the following:
Our accounting degree is mainly assessed using variety of assessment methods including.
Programme Specification and Module Descriptors for Undergraduate and Postgraduate courses are available to download (PDFs).
These provide you with core information concerning your chosen subject.
View our Programme Specifications & Module Descriptors
UWS accountancy graduates have made careers in accountancy, finance, and general business management.
Previous graduates have gone on to work with well-known employers including:
Graduates are currently working in roles including:
Some graduates choose further study, leading to an MSc, PhD or teaching qualification.
£1,820 cost per year of study (usually paid by the Scottish Government via SAAS*)
£9,250 Cost per year of study, but not more than £27,750
£15,500 per year of study
£305 per module (20 credits)
£1,550 per module (20 credits)
£2,580 per module (20 credits)
£9,535 per year of study (4 years of study for the price of 3 years)
£1,590 per module (20 credits)
Ready to apply?
All UK & EU Undergraduate applications should be made through UCAS.
Further information for international, part-time and exchange applications can be found below.
Clearing runs from 5 July through to 20 October.
Spaces are limited, therefore we encourage application as soon as possible.
If you are using Clearing to apply for University for the first time, you’ll need to register with UCAS and submit an application.
Find out more about applying through Clearing .
A small number of courses will require applications to be made directly to UWS.
This will be noted where required.
Please refer to our Undergraduate Application Guide for domestic & EU/EEA .
For applications and more information on applying, please visit www.ucas.com
Students from non-EU/non-EEA countries can apply directly to UWS via our dedicated online application system.
The latest we can process your application is 6 weeks before the course start date to allow for visa processing times.
For more information on when and how to apply to study at UWS please refer to our International Undergraduate Application Guide .
For part-time & online study , you should apply directly to the University through our online application system, not through UCAS.
Please select the part-time mode of study when submitting your application.
Before you begin your application, it is important to read the part-time application step-by-step guide for a smooth process.
To come to UWS as a visiting student on a study abroad or exchange programme , you must apply entirely through our online system.
An ATAS certificate is not required for overseas students applying for this course.
Call: 0800 027 1000
(Lines open: 8am-6pm until Monday 18 August, then open 8.45am-6pm)
Complete our Clearing Application form
Unistats draws together comparable information in areas students have identified as important in making decisions about what and where to study.
The core information it contains is called the Key Information Set.
We will always try to make sure that we publish accurate course information but we do not accept responsibility for any mistakes or omissions.
We will also try to make sure that we deliver our courses in line with our published information.
However, we may not always be able to do so and you can find further information about this in our enrolment terms and conditions .

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/business-year-1-entry:
BA (Hons)
4 years full-time, typically 6 years part-time*
Dumfries, Lanarkshire, Paisley
N104
Paisley: September & January**
Dumfries & Galloway College (3rd year entry): September
Lanarkshire (2nd and 3rd year entry): September
Our BA Business programmes are designed with your career aspirations in mind, offering flexibility and a broad range of opportunities to tailor your studies .
Build a strong foundation in your first two years (Levels 7 & 8) with our newly introduced common modules where you'll focus on the essentials in business and marketing studies.
For your third year (Level 9) onwards, you'll have the freedom to choose your area of specialism.
Discover your passion and focus on the areas that excite you the most.
Whether you stick with your initial plan or explore new pathways within the Business School, the choice is yours.
Developed in alignment with the needs of modern organisations in the private, public and tertiary sectors, the BA (Hons) Business programme prepares students for a wide range of careers requiring business acumen and expertise, including the evolving nature and impact of AI in contemporary organisations.
The programme cuts across business, management and organisation studies disciplines, including marketing, human resources, entrepreneurship, sustainability, strategy and leadership to foster development of broad knowledge that prepares students for a wide range of careers.
Whether your career aspirations lie in business, government or the charitable sector, the BA (Hons) Business will help you take them head on and with confidence.
Our highly competitive study abroad scheme, which will allow you to study with one of our international partner institutions in the third year of your studies, will further help you if you are aspiring to embark on a career that will span the globe.
*Part-time students attend daytime classes with full-time students.
**Our January intake at Paisley Campus is for international students only.
The BA (Hons) Business provides students with the opportunity to gain foundational knowledge of human resource management, marketing accounting, finance and entrepreneurship.
It further helps them develop a critical understanding organisational strategy, organisational culture, leadership, change management and knowledge management.
Finally, BA (Hons) Business students have the opportunity to elevate their awareness of contemporary business issues, including sustainability, globalisation and the transformative potential of AI and other novel technologies.
In the first year of their studies, students are introduced to key areas of business, management and organisation studies, including finance, human resources management marketing and entrepreneurship.
They also begin to explore the role of AI and other technologies in contemporary work settings.
In the second year of your studies, students develop knowledge in areas that are highly relevant to contemporary organisations, including sustainability, operations management and digital workplaces.
They also explore the role of AI in innovation and analytics.
In the third year of their studies, students explore emerging business issues, as well as develop an understanding of strategy, organisational culture, leadership and the transformative potential of AI.
They also learn research methods in preparation for undertaking an honours dissertation/project in the final year of their studies.
In the final year of their studies, student complete an honours dissertation/project on a topic of their choice.
Simultaneously, they develop critical understanding of globalisation, knowledge management and change management.
They are also given the choice to either deepen their understanding of sustainability and ethics, or explore the transformative impact of accelerating AI on businesses, organisations and societies of the future.
Examples of assessments used on the BA (Hons) Business programme:
Additionally, as part of the third year of the studies the student will be required to submit a research proposal that will lay the fundaments for their honours/final year dissertation or project.
On the completion of the BA (Hons) Business degree you may follow the footsteps of your predecessors and pursue a range of careers in Scottish, UK-wide and multinational organisations from a variety of sectors, including:
Alternatively, you may start your own business or pursue further study, including the following qualifications:
Exceptions to this level of IELTS scoring exist for some accredited or professionally-recognised courses (see section below for more details).
SOCIAL WORK DEGREES
For our BA (Hons) Social Work and MSc Social Work programmes, applicants are required to have an IELTS score as follows:
All stated English tests are acceptable for admission for both home/EU and international students for this programme:
For Health, Nursing & Midwifery courses that lead to, or require professional registration with the Nursing & Midwifery Council , applicants are required to have an IELTS or Occupational English Test (OET)*.
For such courses, the IELTS score is as follows:
* Note that the Occupational English Test (OET) will now be accepted in addition to IELTS as proof of a Nurse's English Language Competence (Nursing & Midwifery Council, 2019).
For our BSc (Hons) Applied Biomedical Science , BSc (Hons) Biomedical Science and MSc Advanced Biomedical Science programmes, applicants are required to have an IELTS score as follows:
TOEFL IBT*: 78; no sub-test less than:
* Please note that TOEFL is still acceptable for admission to this programme for both home/EU and international students.
For international students, the Home Office has confirmed that the University can choose to use TOEFL to make its own assessment of English language ability for visa applications to degree level courses.
We therefore still accept TOEFL tests taken in the last two years for admission to this programme.
West African Senior School Certificate of Education (WASSCE) including acceptance of WAEC Scratchcard*
*UWS will accept a WAEC scratchcard confirming that an applicant has achieved C6 or above as evidence of meeting English language requirement from Nigeria if the student graduated within the last 5 years.
After 5 years applicants would be required to provide the WAEC Certificate.
As part of our portfolio review process, the BA Business is being phased out at our Lanarkshire campus.
Advanced entry will only be allowed in Years 2 and 3 for suitably qualified individuals.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/business-year-2-3-entry:
4 years full-time, typically 6 years part-time** (Year 2 & 3 Entry)
N100
Lanarkshire: September
Paisley: September & January*
Launch your career in business with the University of the West of Scotland’s BA (Hons) Business degree.
Developed in partnership with business and industry leaders at the forefront of their profession, this degree will equip you with the skills and attitude to meet the challenges of a stimulating career in business.
Whether you are interested in enterprise and entrepreneurship, marketing or human resources, this degree provides the opportunity to learn many important business disciplines.
* Our January intake at Paisley Campus is for international students only.
* *Part-time students attend daytime classes with full-time students.
Broaden your horizons, learn a new language and prepare for the best international opportunities available with our highly competitive study abroad opportunities at UWS.
Enterprise is central to all of our Business courses here at UWS; we offer professionally-focused courses, providing students with sought-after skillsets to succeed in commerce and industry.
Our recent graduates are now working with some of the biggest names in business including RBS, Shell, Ford and IBM.
Overall satisfaction from BA (Hons) Business students.
of BA (Hons) Business graduates in work and/or study six months after graduating
The BA (Hons) Business course at UWS offers a broad-based and comprehensive understanding of business, from theory and strategy to operational issues.
Key elements of the course include learning from widely recognised local, national and international organisations via case studies, and authentic real-world based assessments.
During your time at UWS, you will also have the opportunity to attend events, presentations and talks hosted by employers at UWS.
Many of the course core module skills are in line with the requirements for graduate trainee programmes, helping you to prepare for a career in national and international organisations.
In the second year of your studies, you will develop skills and knowledge across a range of business disciplines that are highly relevant to contemporary organisations, including an understnading of ethics and digital workplaces.
You will also have the opportunity to delve deepers into subject introduced during the first year of your studies, including human resource management and entrepreneurship.
In the third year of your studies, you will explore emerging business issues, as well as develop an understanding of various specialised areas, including strategy, organisational culture and leadership.
You will also learn research methods in preparation for undertaking a dissertation in the final year of your studies.
In the final year of your studies, you will complete a dissertation on a topic of your choice, whilst continuing to develop your understanding in the areas of business, management and organisation studies.
Alongside learning independently, you will frequently engage in group work, which will ensure you will develop key transferable skills, including presentation, communication and teamworking skills.
Your progress on the BA (Hons) Business degree will be assessed using a variety of individual- and group-based assessment techniques, including:
The UWS Business degree has been developed in partnership with some of the UK’s top employers and is designed to equip you with the skills employers need.
The degree will assist entry onto graduate management programmes helping you to prepare for a career in public, private and voluntary organisations in the UK and internationally.
Many of our graduates embarked on careers in consultancy, marketing, retail and human resources management.
However, the BA (Hons) Business can also unlock many other opportunities.
Some graduates choose further study, leading to a Master of Science (MSc) , Master of Business Administration (MBA) , Master of Research ( MRes ), Master of Philosophy (MPhil), Doctor of Philoso phy (PhD) or a Doctor of Business Administration (DBA).

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/business-with-finance-year-1-entry:
N1N8
Prepare to excel as a business and finance professional.
Our BA Business programmes are designed with your career aspirations in mind, offering flexibility and a broad range of opportunities to tailor your studies.
Build a strong foundation in your first two years (Levels 7 & 8) with our newly introduced common modules where you'll focus on the essentials in business and finance studies.
The BA (Hons) Business with Finance has been refreshed to equip you with the skills and knowledge to thrive in today’s rapidly evolving global economy.
Alongside core business and principles, you will specialise in finance while mastering AI-driven decision-making, developing entrepreneurial strategies, and gaining practical insights that are directly relevant to real-world business challenges.
With the BA Business & Finance at UWS you can tailor your degree to focus on areas that are related to your future career aspirations, such as enterprise and entrepreneurship, marketing or human resources.
UWS graduates are well prepared for a successful career in business, management and finance.
You can advance your education with a MBA or an MSc Accounting and Finance with CIMA at UWS.
Must have Nat 5 Maths at C or above (or equivalent)
The BA (Hons) Business with Finance programme allows you to tailor your studies to suit your career goals.
In Levels 7 and 8, you'll build a strong foundation in core business subjects, shared across four pathways: Business, Finance, Human Resources, and Marketing.
As you progress to Levels 9 and 10, you'll focus on specialised finance modules, alongside a common Research Design & Methods module at level 9 and a Dissertation/Project module at level 10.
A Digital/AI theme is embedded throughout the programme, ensuring you stay up to date with advancements in transformational technologies that are revolutionising how we work, learn and live.
Core modules include Risk in Financial Services, Global Financial Compliance, Investment Analysis, Strategic Financial Management, Statistics for Business with Finance, and more.
In the first year, students will build a foundation in business and finance principles.
Core modules include:
Students can also choose from a selection of options, including:
*These modules are the recommended optional modules for BA (Hons) Business with Finance students.
The second year focuses on developing practical business skills.
Together with other options from a suite of subjects such as:
(Those modules marked as * are the recommended optional modules for BA (Hons) Business with Finance students).
In the third year, students engage in specialised marketing study with a focus on contemporary topics and practical application.
The Honours year focuses on advanced marketing strategies and research.
Students will complete an Honours Dissertation/project module worth 40 credit points, alongside the following core modules:
You will be taught through a combination of lectures, tutorials, and workshops, providing both theoretical knowledge and practical insights.
There will also be group work and independent study, allowing you to develop essential transferable skills such as research, presentation, communication, and teamwork.
The BA (Hons) Business with Finance programme employs a diverse range of assessment methods to reflect real-world business and marketing practices.
These include:
This variety ensures you build a comprehensive skill set, preparing you for the dynamic demands of the marketing profession.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/business-finance-year-2-3-entry:
4 years full-time, typically 6 years part-time (Year 2 & 3 Entry)
N1N3
Get your career in business off to a flying start with UWS’s BA Business & Finance.
Developed in partnership with industry experts, employers and professional associations, this degree will help you develop the knowledge and skills needed to make a positive impact in business and financial professions.
Thanks to our connections with industry experts and professionals, this degree’s teaching and assessments are designed to equip you with the practical experience to tackle the challenges faced by businesses today.
Our BA Business programmes have been refreshed to equip you with the skills and knowledge to thrive in today’s rapidly evolving global economy.
If you are looking for 1st year entry, please visit BA (Hons) Business with Finance.
Work placement opportunities available through the School of Business & Enterprise allow students to put theory into practice in real-world business environments.
Broaden your horizons, learn a new language and prepare for the best international opportunities available with study abroad at UWS.
UWS offers professionally focused Business courses, providing students with sought-after skillsets to succeed in commerce and industry.
We place a high value on promoting entrepreneurship, partnering with the Princes Trust to support our business students to become self-employed or to set up their own business.
The BA Business & Finance course provides a mix of specialist and generic transferable skills essential for your career, whether in business, management or finance.
A variety of teaching and learning approaches are used including lectures, tutorials, practical workshops and are focused on the pr actical aspects of business and finance.
Our highly qualified and experienced team of teaching staff, supported by industry guest speakers, will deepen your understanding of business and finance.
They will help you to understand the range of career options and professional accreditation that will be available to you upon completion.
In Year 2, you will develop your financial and management accounting experience and introduce specialised areas such as financial management and business law.
You can choose several modules from areas of business and management that interest you, or continue to learn a language.
In Year 3, you will begin to develop in-depth knowledge and experience of financial management and accounting, alongside modules in taxation and banking, providing excellent practical and theoretical knowledge.
A range of business options may be selected along with more advanced options.
In Year 4, you will complete a research dissertation of your choice alongside your continued study of business and contemporary issues in finance.
Modules include Enterprise Risk Management, Personal Finance, and a number of advanced business modules.
You will be taught through a combination of lectures, tutorials and workshops.
You will also have the opportunity to take part in group work and independent learning to develop your transferable skills such as research, presentation, communication and working as part of a team.
Our Business degree is assessed using a variety of assessment methods including:
Some graduates choose further study, leading to a Master of Business Administration (MBA) or a Doctor of Business Administration (DBA) .
Estimated costs per year of study.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/business-with-hrm-year-1-entry:
Prepare to excel as a business and HRM professional.
The BA (Hons) Business with HRM has been refreshed to equip you with the skills and knowledge to thrive in today’s rapidly evolving global economy.
Alongside core business and principles, you will specialise in HRM while mastering AI-driven decision-making, developing entrepreneurial strategies, and gaining practical insights that are directly relevant to real-world business challenges.
Accredited by the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD), the BA (Hons) Business with HRM provides a pathway towards CIPD qualifications that are highly sought after by employers, enhancing your employability.
Upon completion of the programme, our graduates are equipped with the professional knowledge, skills and understanding to pursue careers within human resources.
The business modules arm our graduates with the knowledge and skills necessary to explore careers in general organisation management.
Recent Business with Human resource management graduates are employed across the public, private and third sector in industries such as recruitment, NHS, BP, IKEA and local authority.
You can advance your education with an MBA or an MSc Human Resource Management at UWS.
The BA (Hons) Business with HRM programme allows you to tailor your studies to suit your career goals.
In the first year, students will build a foundation in business and HRM principles.
*These modules are the recommended optional modules for BA (Hons) Business with HRM students.
The second year focuses on developing practical business and HRM skills.
In the third year, students engage in specialised HRM study with a focus on contemporary topics and practical application.
The Honours year focuses on advanced HRM strategies and research.
The BA (Hons) Business with HRM programme employs a diverse range of assessment methods to reflect real-world business and HRM practices.
This variety ensures you build a comprehensive skill set, preparing you for the dynamic demands of the HRM profession.
Alternative Minimum Entry Requirements: CC PLUS successful completion of one of the following: - UWS Foundation Academy - Foundation Apprenticeship - UWS Next Steps to University module - Routes for All - Top-Up - LEAPS

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/business-hrm-year-2-3-entry:
N1N6
The BA (Hons) Business & Human Resource Management at UWS is a highly specialist degree programme, designed to support and develop current and future professionals in Human Resource Management.
The programme has been designed to deliver up-to-date practical and professional skills, underpinned by appropriate academic theory.
This is fostered by a comprehensive learning journey, supported by a clear programme structure - in line with UWS’ Curriculum Framework, aimed at delivering simple, coherent and authentic education:
Year 2: Generalist Human Resource Management
Year 3: Professionalism in Human Resource Management
Year 4: Specialism in Human Resource Management
If you are looking for 1st year entry, please visit BA (Hons) Business with HRM .
The programme has been accredited by the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD).
It therefore meets the highest standards in the profession of People/Human Resource Management.
The programme design is driven by the CIPD Core Knowledge and Core Behaviour, in line with the CIPD CPD Map, as outlined below:
On successful completion of the Honours degree, students will be entitled to the Associate Membership of the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD).
In line with UWS Curriculum Framework, aiming for flexible (using best-in-class technologies and pedagogies, meeting the learning needs of students in contemporary Scotland) and inclusive (recognising the diversity of the student body, and the need to be accessible to all) education, the programme is designed around the various needs of our diverse student body.
This means the programme is offered full-time across all four years while providing a meaningful part-time/blended learning approach towards meeting the needs of students currently in Human Resource Management employment.
Furthermore, both the University and the programme aim to make a contribution, not only to the Human Resource Management profession, but also to communities and the wider society.
This is nurtured by a proactive approach towards incorporating the UN Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDG), with a focus on the following:
The aim of working towards achieving these principles is embedded throughout the entirety of the BA(Hons) Business & HRM at UWS, and through the provision of the opportunity to develop the requisite knowledge, critical thinking and skills.
Our Programme has achieve at 95% overall student satisfaction in the NSS 2023.
While there are currently no formal arrangements around placement, we pro-actively help students obtain internships, placements, work experience or part-time work through strong industry and alumni connections.
The dedicated HRM Alumni Network continues to work with UWS to help create opportunities for students, including work- placements, guest lecturers and networking events.
Here at UWS, we pride ourselves in creating a supportive learning environment, aimed at enabling all students to be successful in their degree and beyond.
The University offers a wide range of support mechanisms, including the following:
Please visit our Undergraduate Entry Requirements page for information on our different entry requirements, including country-specific details for EU and non-EU qualifications
As a Widening Access & Participation University, we can other students accelerated entry.
This can give students the opportunity to enter into second or third year, depending on qualifications.
Due to the professional accreditation of the programme, direct fourth year entry is unavailable.
HNC titles with required required modules:
HND title with required modules:
The programme takes a strategic approach to developing skills and knowledge across all four years.
It develops students' intellectual and imaginative understanding and judgement, the ability to resolve problems effectively and the ability to recognise the relevance of a wide variety of approaches fundamental to Human Resource Management.
The programme engenders an analytical and creative approach and encourages independent judgement and critical self-awareness all directed towards continual improvement in the business and Human Resource/people areas.
Second year of the programme focuses on the further development of a generalist understanding of Human Resource Management, the role it plays in organisations and its contribution to organisational success, addressed through the following modules:
Third year places a strong emphasis on the understanding and alignment of skills, knowledge and behaviours to the CIPD CPD Profession Map, as well as helping students to develop key research skills, preparing them for their Honours Project in fourth year — through the following modules:
In addition, third year outlines more contemporary issues in HRM, including the following:
In fourth year, students will explore a variety of more specialist areas within Human Resource Management, including the following:
This is further nurtured by the completion of the Honours Project, where students will conduct their own research project, exploring a contemporary issue in Human Resource Management in great depth.
In line with the University’s Curriculum Framework, the BA (Hons) Business & HRM utilises a range of learning, teaching and assessment methods to enable learning outcomes to be achieved — fostered by the university’s contemporary approach to hybrid learning.
This approach exposes students to a wide range of learning, teaching and assessment methods in order to assist in the development of a variety of skills within students and to achieve a wide range of learning outcomes.
Furthermore, the programme aims to balance academic knowledge and employability-focused skills within its assessment strategy.
This includes the use of written assignments, presentations, assessment centres/in-trays, role plays, and vivas, among others.
Recent Business & Human resource management graduates are employed across the public, private and third sector in industries such as recruitment, NHS, BP, IKEA and local authority.
UWS offers various postgraduate qualifications which can help graduates further develop their knowledge and understanding of business and HRM.
MSc HRM & Pathways, MSc International Management, and Master of Business Administration (MBA) are only a few of the options available to graduates of the BA(Hons) Business & HRM programme.
Graduates looking to pursue research or education may wish to consider an academic career and apply for a Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) or a Doctor of Business Administration (DBA) degree.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/business-with-marketing-year-1-entry:
N1N4
Prepare to excel as a marketing professional.
The BA (Hons) Business with Marketing course has been refreshed to equip you with the skills and knowledge needed to thrive in today's rapidly evolving global economy.
You'll master core business principles while specialising in marketing, AI-driven decision-making, entrepreneurial strategies, and practical insights directly relevant to real-world business challenges.
The BA Business & Marketing programme is accredited by the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM) and offers a pathway towards CIM qualification in due course.
Graduates of the BA (Hons) Business with Marketing programme are well-equipped with the skills and knowledge to excel in a variety of marketing and business roles across diverse industries.
They often secure positions such as:
Graduates find opportunities in local, national, and international organisations, ranging from marketing agencies and large corporations to start-ups and non-profit sectors.
You can advance your education with a MSc in Digital Marketing or a Master of Business Administration (MBA) at UWS.
Additionally, you can also pursue professional qualifications through the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM), with the potential to achieve Chartered Marketer status.
The BA (Hons) Business with Marketing programme allows you to tailor your studies to suit your career goals.
In years 1 & 2 (levels 7 & 8), you will build a strong foundation in core business subjects, shared across four pathways: Business, Finance, Human Resources, and Marketing.
If you choose to continue specialising in Marketing in years 3 & 4 (levels 9 & 10) you will focus on specialised marketing modules, alongside a common Research Design & Methods module in year 3 (level 9) and a Dissertation/Project module in year 4 (level 10).
In the first year, students will build a foundation in business and marketing principles.
Students can select from a range of options including:
* these are the recommended optional modules for BA (Hons) Business with Marketing students.
The second year focuses on developing practical business and marketing skills.
Students can select from a further range of options including:
Those who chose to specialise in Marketing in year 3 can chose from core modules including:
The BA (Hons) Business with Marketing programme employs a diverse range of assessment methods to reflect real-world business and marketing practices.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/business-marketing-year-2-3-entry:
4 years full-time, typically 6 years part-time (Year 2 & 3 entry)
N1N5
The BA Business & Marketing programme will provide you with the specialist skills and knowledge to excel as a marketing professional, giving you a competitive edge in the graduate employment market.
UWS has links with local and national organisations and ensures that the teaching and assessment provided on this programme focuses on the marketing issues that impact businesses today.
This will equip you with hands-on experience of applying critical thinking to solve challenges in the workplace.
If you are looking for 1st year entry, please visit (BA Hons) Business with Marketing .
UWS provides several different alternative pathways to higher education.
Visit Alternative Pathways page to find out more .
The BA (Hons) Business & Marketing programme allows you to tailor your studies to suit your career goals.
Years 1 and 2 of the Business & Marketing programme will develop your general and operational knowledge.
Years 3 and 4 of this programme will deepen your knowledge of marketing principles, helping you develop managerial and strategic business and marketing knowledge.
In the Honours year, you will complete an Honour project on a topic of your choice.
You can also choose to undertake a HEAR Award, where you’ll provide marketing support to businesses and increase your hands-on experience.
Students will have core business and marketing modules to study and a wide selection of optional modules that they can choose to study too.
Subjects include Introduction to Marketing, Marketing for A Better Future, Introducing People Management, Introduction to Accounting & Finance, Marketing Research Practice, Global Marketing, Contemporary Consumer Behaviour, Digital Marketing and Analytics, Marketing Communications Mix and many more.
The second year provides a platform for practitioner development, with core modules in Marketing Research Practice, Global Marketing, People, Planet and Profit, Contemporary Consumer Behaviour, and Customer Service Skills, together with several other options from a suite of subjects.
The degree level provision offers specialist study of a more strategic nature, including core modules in Marketing Communications Mix, B2B Marketing and Relationship Networks, Digital Marketing and Analytics, and a module in Research Design and Methods which aims to prepare students for the Honours year.
A selection of optional modules will also be available.
The Honours year is slightly more conceptual, focusing on an Honours project module worth 40 credit points.
Core modules include Marketing Strategy Theory, Brands and Branding, Customer Experiences and Relationships.
Specialist complementary optional modules will also be available.
There will also be group work and independent learning to ensure you develop transferable skills such as research, presentation, communication and working as part of a team.
Our Marketing degree is mainly assessed using a variety of assessment methods including:
Graduates from the BA (Hons) Business & Marketing programme have extensive knowledge of business and marketing techniques, and an understanding of what makes a business environment successful.
Graduates go on to secure roles in the areas of:
You can continue your studies at UWS with a Master of Business Administration (MBA) specialising in marketing, or MSc in Digital Marketing or International Marketing Management.
You can also pursue professional qualifications through the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM) or the Chartered Institute of Public Relations (CIPR).
Brian, Business & Marketing student

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/events-management:
2 years full-time, typically 3 years part-time
N820
Fancy learning about the important role events have in society and the skills required to plan and stage events to run like clockwork?
Then UWS’s BA (Hons) Events Management is designed to take your knowledge and skills to the next level.
You’ll learn about managing projects, budgets and risk management and other o perational skills needed to stag e event s and will develop your u nderstand ing of the important role that events have in communit ies at a local national and international leve l .
Y ou will learn ways that events can be managed to achieve sustainability goals and have a positive impact on society.
With close industry partnerships and regular guest lectures from events professionals, the content delivered on this programme aims to provide you with insight and experience of best practice across a range of events sectors, including business events, conferences, sports, music and a range of community festivals.
Broaden your horizons, learn a new language and prepare for the best international opportunities available with study abroad at UWS .
HND
The BA Events Management course focuses on the development of operational and managerial skills across a range of events industry sectors, including project management, legislation and risk management – all essential skills for the professional events manager.
You will explore a range of event management processes and have direct involvement in the planning and staging of live events.
This year focuses on management and experiences for events.
You will develop specialised knowledge of events management in a broad range of contexts including business events, conferences, sporting events, and the live music scene.
As well as gaining insights into the psychological aspects of the event experience you will learn how to manage resources and develop relationships with sponsors and stakeholders.
This year will also involve developing research skills and knowledge in preparation for the final year.
This year looks to global aspects, the future, and advances in the events industry.
In this Honours year you will complete an events-based dissertation.
Further specialised study takes strategic view of event policy and global trends.
Our Events Management degree is assessed using a variety of assessment methods including:
Career choices include event manager, working in sports venues, conference management, product launches or fundraising for voluntary organisations.
Volunteering and work-related opportunities are offered to student to students at all stages of the programme.
Students have progressed through grasped opportunities with People Make Glasgow, Scottish Athletics and Diabetes Scotland amongst others.
Some graduates choose further study, leading to a MSc in Event Management.
Iain, Events Management student
The BA (Hons) Business (Year 2 & 3 Entry) offers an excellent grounding in business and enterprise skills, giving you a well-developed understanding of how to manage and develop a business.
Campus
Study mode
Full time, Part time, Clearing 2025
This programme will give you a sound grasp of the principles and practice in the field of study.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/events-and-tourism-management:
N833
Our BA (Hons) Events and Tourism Management programme provides the opportunity to immerse yourself in one of the most exciting, diverse and dynamic business sectors.
Set on a global stage, you'll gain an in-depth understanding of the importance of events for communities, business, government and society from local, national and international perspectives.
Importantly, you will engage with ways to ensure a sustainable future for these globally significant industries.
Established upon a firm foundation of research-led teaching, innovation, expertise-driven insights and a clear commitment to guiding and supporting students, this programme will allow you to develop specialist knowledge and advanced practical skills.
Covering a range of topics including business, management, events and tourism the programme is designed to provide you with the competitive edge that will enable you to succeed in the events and tourism industries.
With close industry partnerships, regular guest lectures from tourism & events professionals, field trips and industry-based projects, the content delivered in this programme will provide you with insight and experience of best practice across a number of sectors, including business, travel, conferences, sports, music and a range of festivals.
Graduates of this programme are well prepared for their future career in these vibrant global industries.
This is the foundation year where you will be introduced to a range of subjects relating to the wider context of business management including marketing, finance and managing people in addition to the core specific modules Discovering Live Events and Tourism & The Experience Economy.
This is the planning and operational year where knowledge and understanding of event design, tourism operations, consumer behaviour and their impacts on society is expanded through staging a live event.
This year focuses on management and experiences for events and tourism.
You will develop specialised knowledge of these industries in a range of contexts including Eventful Places and Tourism, Transport and Mobility.
You will also have the opportunity to select modules to suit your own area of interest including a range of language options.
In this Honours year, you will complete a dissertation focusing on a relevant topic of your choice.
You will develop a detailed knowledge of the global issues and trends impacting the events and tourism industries, this will be supported by the development of a strategic understanding of events and tourism policy.
You will also have the opportunity to select an optional module that strengthens your own area of interest and career aspirations.
Our Events & Tourism Management degree is assessed using a variety of assessment methods including:
Graduates from this programme have gone on to secure positions in hotels, venues, conference and convention facilities, including the OVO Hydro, and sports facilities, including Ibrox, Parkhead and Hampden.
They have also worked as part of large-scale events like the Commonwealth Games and the Olympics.
Additionally, we have graduates securing various fundraising and event roles for charities, at visitor attractions as well as marketing and research roles.
All UK & EU undergraduate applications should be made through UCAS.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/business-technology:
BSc (Hons)
2 years full-time, 3 years full-time (sandwich).
Contact us for info on part-time options
Computing, Engineering & Physical Sciences
G290
The professionally-accredited BSc Business Technology opens up a wide range of roles and opportunities for you with many organisations, including large blue chip international companies.
You will learn about the fundamentals of business operations and technology, and progress to the in-depth study of systems analysis, project management, and recent advancements in business intelligence and information security management.
With industry placements, business-focused content and work-related learning, the BSc (Hons) Business Technology prepares you for a modern career in technology-reliant businesses..
This course is accredited by the British Computer Society (BCS) as fully meeting the academic requirements for registration as a Chartered IT Professional.
Part-time students must complete their studies within 6 years to gain BCS recognition.*
Find out more about the BCS
*subject to re-accreditation approval
Optional industrial placements are designed to make you work-ready and able to meet the needs of industry.
There is an optional 12-month paid placement in an organisational setting is offered, in the UK or abroad, at the end of Year 3.
Short (8 to 10 week) work-based placement opportunities are also available during Years 3 and 4.
The course is designed to be practical in nature and up-to-date equipment, teaching methods and industry-standard software tools are used throughout.
Guest lectures and seminars are organised on a regular basis with industry specialists.
Where possible, visits to local businesses, attendance at industry conferences and direct involvement in industry projects will be used as integral aspects of module and programme delivery.
Our students graduate ready for career success in this fast-changing, dynamic industry.
UWS has been delivering career-focused computing degrees for over 50 years.
With a focus on producing work-ready computing graduates, many of our computing courses are professionally recognised by the British Computer Society (BCS), the Chartered Institute for IT in the UK.
Aligning our courses to the BCS agenda is essential in producing IT professionals of the future who will focus on making IT good for society.
Our computing courses at UWS are designed in collaboration with leading companies to produce work-ready graduates with the skills that industry needs.
We work with major industry leaders to give our students work-based learning opportunities to put their knowledge into practice.
At UWS, we are committed to ensuring that our students graduate ready for career success in this fast-changing, dynamic industry.
Industry requires graduates who can combine sound business knowledge with technical expertise to manage, maintain and improve modern business technology.
You will regularly work with real companies, which will greatly enhance your appeal to future employers.
Ashley Forrester, BSc (Hons) Business Technology graduate
You will improve your knowledge on business systems analysis, project management, and recent advancements in areas such as business intelligence and information security management.
Between years 3 and 4, you may undertake a placement on a full-time basis over a minimum 36 weeks duration, leading to a 'sandwich' degree award.
You will conduct an individual research project and study key strategic level aspects of business technology.
This course can also be studied part-time (day, evening and distance learning).
The course delivers a combination of technology and business related modules in every year, some of which are designed around accredited material from organisations such as Microsoft , Cisco and the British Computer Society, affording you the opportunity to supplement academic studies with professional certification, if you so desire.
The main teaching instruments are lectures, tutorials and laboratory work.
Classes are divided into smaller groups for laboratory work and tutorials.
Seminars and group work are used where appropriate.
Many of the modules place a focus on interactive student-centred learning using online materials or interactive systems or applications that you can work through at your own pace.
BSc Business Technology produces graduates with multidisciplinary skills.
Graduates will therefore be of interest to almost all businesses, particularly those with a need to employ someone who can analyse and understand how their business works and how best to use modern business technology to help the business develop and grow.
In previous years, graduates have found employment with large organisations such as Oracle, Dell, Aggreko, Hewlett-Packard, Ernst & Young, Pernod Ricard, Clydesdale Bank, Standard Life, and McLaren Software.
Typical roles include: Business Systems Analyst; Data Analyst; Project Manager; Technical Support Specialist; Systems Administrator; Business Intelligence Analyst; Data Analytics Specialist; Business Technology Consultant; Technology Trainer; and Teacher.
Estimated cost per year of study.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/computer-animation-arts:
GW48
The BSc Computer Animation Arts combines traditional and digital animation techniques, and covers all elements of the animation production pipeline.
Computer animation, modelling and effects require both artistic and technical approaches to complex visual problem-solving.
Fusing traditional skills with cutting-edge technology, this dynamic and innovative course provides you with the skills to work in a wide range of areas within the computer animation industry.
This course provides the skills required for work in animation, 3D modelling, visual effects, visualisation, and computer games.
It will also encourage you to specialise in a chosen area and stretch your technical and artistic abilities.
The BSc Computer Animation Arts is a practical and mainly project-based course and throughout the course you will produce a range of digital outputs.
From Year 3 onwards, you can specialise in a range of different areas including film, TV and games and your Year 4 Honours project allows you to specialise in a a specific area of interest.
If you’d like to view some of our student work please view the showreel above or browse through the images below.
If you’d like to follow the course online, find us at Twitter and Facebook , or alternatively browse more of our student output at ArtStation .
Explore course work
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
Our Programme Leaders have recorded video sessions to help you discover all there is to know about our courses.
From professional accreditation to programme modules and career opportunities, our Programme Leaders will help answer all your questions.
You can view the video for this course by clicking the link below.
COMPUTER ANIMATION ARTS PROGRAMME LEADER
Computer Animation Arts is industry-recognised by ScreenSkills, the industry-led skills body for the UK's screen-based industries, and carries the ScreenSkills Select quality-mark which indicates courses best suited to prepare students for a career in the screen industries.
The BSc Computer Animation Arts also provides opportunities in Year 3 to undertake a work-based learning placement with digital production companies.
This allows you to apply your learning in real-world business environments.
UWS graduates enjoy careers in computer games, animated films and video, visual effects, and architectural visualisation.
Graduates are employed by industry heavyweights and award-winning studios including: Disney, ILM, Warner Studios, MPC, Sony Pictures, Rockstar North, Di4D, Hydra Studios, Wild Child Animation, Ammonite, Revenant, Lupus, BBC, STV, The CharacterShop, Playground Games, Mental Ltd, Tag Games, Codemasters, Rivet Games and Firebrand Games.
Graduates have also set up their own companies.
Students have progressed to postgraduate study in animation, architectural visualisation, Web and media on completion of the Honours degree.
You will have access to extensive computing facilities throughout your studies with one hundred and twenty specialist computers for animation, all with the latest versions of Autodesk and Adobe teaching software.
Applicants may be required to submit a portfolio of artwork as part of the application process.
The BSc Computer Animation Arts involves mainly project-based assessment, geared towards the production of material that showcases your abilities to employers.
From Year 3 on, you can specialise in a range of different areas including film, TV and games.
The course is highly practical, concentrating on skills, with appropriate theory mainly assessed through practical output.
You will also develop a range of transferable written and practical graduate skills useful for employment inside and outside of the animation and media industries.
96% of Computer Animation Arts students were satisfied overall with the course (National Student Survey 2024).
It is always possible to augment your studies and broaden your horizons by learning a new language and prepare for the best international opportunities.
Contact us to find out more on learning a language and studying abroad.
UWS has been delivering career-focused computing degree courses for nearly 50 years.
Computing courses at UWS are designed in collaboration with leading companies to produce work-ready graduates with the skills that industry needs.
You will focus on the principles of animation, planning and practice.
You will learn how computer tools are used for artistic representation and work on 2D and 3D animation.
You will continue to focus on the principles of animation, planning and practice.
You will develop further skills in 2D and 3D animation.
You will focus on advanced modelling and texturing techniques, and on independent, specialist project work.
This includes the production of a demo reel and scripting for automation and simulation.
You will undertake a substantial project, creating a piece of work that showcases your skills and enhances your employability after graduation.
You will also study acting for character animation and virtual environments.
£18,000 per year of study
£3,000 per module (20 credits)
£1,820 per year of study (usually paid by the Scottish Government via SAAS*)
The BSc (Hons) Computer Games Development combines the practical development skills with game design to prepare you for a career as a games developer.
Clearing 2025

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/computer-games-development:
G610
Aidan studies on our BSc (Hons) Computer Games Development programme at Paisley campus.
The BSc (Hons) Computer Games Development programme combines practical development skills with aesthetical design.
Throughout the course you will develop your skills in games programming and scripting for multiple platforms.
With multiple pathways on the programme, you will also be provided with the opportunity to enhance your aesthetical design skills focusing on 2D and 3D modelling.
This is a practical, career-focused degree that encourages you to showcase your games and demonstrate your work to employers at our end-of-year Digital Futures event.
Major games studios only employ the most talented and technology-aware graduates, which is why we emphasise the need to work on real-world tasks and to create a strong games portfolio and showreel.
Our multi-skilled graduates work in various industries including games and software development.
Lara, BSc (Hons) Computer Games Development
BSc (Hons) Computer Games Development is a TIGA (The Independent Game Developers' Association) accredited course supporting students towards different pathways in the games industry.
Students are supported in using the relevant industry game engines such as Unity and Unreal Engine allowing them to focus on various aspects of games design and development.
The course maintains solid working relationships with industry partners who support the continuous growth of the programme by advising us of aspects of best practice and the evolving skill sets required to work in the games industry.
We provide our students with the skill sets essential for working in the games industry, generic skills required to become indie developers and we also act as a stepping stone for further study for students to explore more specialist industry roles.
UWS Computer Games Development Graduates enjoy careers in Creative industry companies that might be either games, animation or web and mobile related.
Companies where Computer Games Development graduates have found employment include  Rockstar Games, Rivet Games, Build A Rocket Boy,  Formation Games, Code Ninjas, Add Jam, Equator,  JPMorgan Chase & Co and iomart.
Games Development graduates have also established their own independent games studios working on a freelance basis.
Interested in a career in computer games development?
UWS is the place for you!
Our course will equip you with all the skills and training you need for a successful career.
Don’t just take our word for it – watch our video, where some of our graduates discuss the benefits of studying Computer Games Development at UWS.
94% of Computer Games Development students agreed teaching staff are good at explaining things (National Student Survey 2024).
Our Programme Leaders have recorded videos to help you discover all there is to know about our courses.
COMPUTER GAMES DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME LEADER
The BSc (Hons) Computer Games Development programme gives students the chance to engage with a wide variety of activities as part of their academic journey.
One exciting feature is the Retro Games Room, which allows undergraduates to immerse themselves in a nostalgic gaming experience, featuring a vast collection of classic consoles.
These include iconic systems such as the GameCube, Nintendo DS, PlayStation 1 and the ZX Spectrum 48K.
The room serves as a bridge between the past and the present of gaming, offering students the opportunity to explore the evolution of video games, providing both educational and recreational experiences.
The BSc (Hons) Computer Games Development programme is very diverse.
It caters for students who are keen to pursue their development and programming skills, as well as the core aspects of games design, such as Level Design.
Throughout the programme, you will become familiar with game engines, such as GameMaker, Unity and Unreal Engine.
You can also specialise in the area of mobile games development using scripting languages such as JavaScript.
A key aspect of the programme is its synergy with Computer Animation Arts.
You'll be involved in the creation and development of 2D or 3D modelling as you work on your projects.
For example, you will able to develop your proficiency in using Maya or Blender.
This is a practical, career-focused degree that encourages you to publish games and develop an online presence via the creation of a showcase portfolio.
The BSc (Hons) Computer Games Development course provides you with the chance to illustrate your work to prospective employers from the Creative Industries.
In addition to organising creative industry showcasing events, guest speakers from the industry provide students with insights about working in this area.
Regular game jams are also organised throughout the degree course, which also provide with opportunities to develop games for your portfolio.
The BSc (Hons) Computer Games Development course is predominately project-based with an emphasis on team work, problem-solving, project management, version control, collation and dissemination of project tasks.
Though some assignments are individual, project work is designed to prepare you for the world of work, particularly in a games studio environment.
The Year 4 Honours project is an individual piece of work that is practical in focus allowing you to specialise in a particular games related area that interests you.
Stuart Watt, a graduate of BSc (Hons) Computer Games Development, secured a post as an Associate QA (Quality Assurance) Tester at Scottish games developers, 'Build a Rocket Boy'.
'Build a Rocket Boy', which has offices in Edinburgh, Budapest and Montpellier, represents 32 countries and has nearly 300 employees positioned around the world.
Stuart graduated from UWS in 2022 with First Class Honours.
You may undertake a 36-week professional work placement between Years 2 and 3, or Years 3 and 4.
The BSc Computer Games Development course equips you with industry-relevant skills to build a career as a games developer, while combining creative games design with practical development skills.
It's always possible to augment your studies and broaden your horizons by learning a new language and prepare for the best international opportunities.
You will study the games industry and games development alongside modelling and animation for games.
Core skills in programming for games complement use of game engines to develop games.
You will deepen your understanding of game programming and development using game engines such as Unity 3D and Unreal as well as producing games for the web.
You will also learn about game design and creating and using game assets.
By the end of this year you should be producing games for your portfolio.
The emphasis is on more advanced techniques in game programming and developing your skills for the games industry.
You will undertake a year-long team design and development project, creating a working 3D game for release.
You will also explore development of mobile games.
You may undertake a placement on a full-time basis over a minimum 36 weeks duration, leading to a sandwich award.
This can be taken between years 2 and 3 or years 3 and 4.
You will undertake an individual project, creating a major portfolio piece to showcase your skills.
You will extend your knowledge of level design, the use of games in learning and of advanced web games.
The BSc (Hons) Computing Science will give you a wide ranging understanding of computing to build a career in the IT industry.
The BSc (Hons) Computer Networking provides the skills to specialise in networking and IT infrastructure.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/computer-networking:
H601
The BSc (Hons) Computer Networking is professionally recognised by the British Computer Society.
It will provide you with the skills, knowledge and experience needed to work in this exciting and ever-evolving field and help keep all aspects of modern life connected.
You’ll discover how networking hardware and software work together to keep people and organisations connected, and support the wide range of services we expect our networks to provide.
You’ll cover the curriculum of the CCNA professional certification, explore Windows and Unix/Linux system administration and learn about data security and network management.
COMPUTER NETWORKING PROGRAMME LEADER
It is also recognised by the BCS, on behalf of the Engineering Council, as fully meeting the academic requirements for registration as an Incorporated Engineer and partially meeting the academic requirements for registration as a Chartered Engineer.
You may undertake full-time or part-time placements in a commercial organisation.
In recent years, students have undertaken placements with Baillie-Gifford, the Department for International Development and Peugeot-Citroen.
Computing topics include basic web authoring and the operation of computing hardware and software, moving on to studies include exploring the Windows and Unix/Linux system administration, data security and the operation of networks.
91% of Computer Networking students were satisfied with the academic support they received (National Student Survey 2024).
Computing topics include basic web authoring and the operation of computing hardware and software.
You will examine networking infrastructure, such as routers and switches and undertake a group project or placement.
At the end of second year, you will be ready to sit the industry-recognised CCNA certification.
Studies include exploring the Windows and Unix/Linux system administration, data security and the operation of networks and preparation for your Honours project.
You may take a paid full-time placement over a minimum 36 weeks duration, leading to a sandwich award.
You will study more advanced networking topics, including wireless networks, virtualisation, security and network automation, and undertake a network project designed to integrate your knowledge and skills.
This course can also be studied part-time (day release only).
Please contact us for more information.
Given the practical nature of this programme, much of the class contact time is spent in the lab, with lectures and tutorials to present and underpin more theoretical areas.
A wide range of assessments are used, including practical assessments, technical report writing, individual and group project work, presentations and (in later years) examinations.
Graduates of this degree work in companies including BT, Fanduel , Google, HP, IBM, Iomart and Morgan Stanley in a wide variety of roles mainly relating to network infrastructure management.
UWS is a recognised centre of training for a number of vendor certifications including Microsoft, Cisco and Oracle.
Lecturers on the BSc Computer Networking and MEng Cyber Security are members of the University’s Audio-Visual Communications and Network Research Group, which is particularly active in the areas of 5G mobile network technologies, cybersecurity, cloud computing and virtualisation and the Internet of Things.
You can be certain that you will benefit from this practical, applied nature of the expertise of the academic staff in Computer Networking.
Remote surgery, driverless cars and smooth mobile HD streaming could all become a reality thanks to pioneering research taking place at UWS.
UWS computing researchers Jose Alcaraz-Calero and Qi Wang are the technical leads on the SELFNET project, which is developing a ‘self-healing’ mobile network.
The new network is 1,000 times faster than 4G, delivering dramatic improvements to quality of user experience, reliability and security – and unlocking a wealth of new online opportunities.
As part of this course, you will hear from PhD students who are working on the 5G mobile project, and the course content will be updated to reflect the findings of this work.
The MEng (Hons) / BEng (Hons) Cyber Security provides the skills to protect and secure modern data infrastructure.
Lanarkshire, London
The BSc (Hons) Web & Mobile Development gives you the skills to design, develop, and maintain secure web and responsive mobile solutions.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/computing-science:
4 years full-time, 5 years full-time (sandwich), typically 6 years part-time
G401
The BSc Computing Science will give you a wide ranging understanding of computing in a variety of disciplines.
Study topics include software development processes and technologies; foundations of programming; software modelling tools; object-oriented analysis and design; databases; and web service development.
Careers available in a dynamic industry include software developer or software engineer, web developer, systems analyst, database administrator, database designer, IT consultancy and technology sales.
This course is accredited by the British Computer Society (BCS) as fully meeting the academic requirements for registration as a Chartered IT Professional and, on behalf of the Engineering Council, as fully meeting the academic requirements for registration as an Incorporated Engineer and partially meeting the academic requirements for registration as a Chartered Engineer.
Continuous professional development lies at the core of the BSc Computing Science.
All modules have personal development plans embedded within them and help prepare you to make an effective and immediate contribution to the workplace.
You have the option of taking a double credit industrial placement module for three months in trimester 2 of the third year of the course, which will allow you to enhance your computing skills.
There is also the option of a 12-month paid placement in an industrial or commercial setting, providing practical experience to complement your academic study.
Students have recently completed placements with South Lanarkshire Council, Renfrewshire Council and GT4.
UWS Computing Science graduates have secured excellent careers within the computing industry, including: Software Developer / Software Engineer Analyst / Web Developer / Database Administrator / Database Designer / Systems Analyst / Database Designer
of research classed as world-leading, internationally excellent or recognised internationally (REF 2021)
The BSc Computing Science will give you a wide-ranging understanding of computing.
Guest speakers from industry form part of the course to further deepen your understanding of the subject.
Recent speakers have included representatives from Morgan Stanley, Search Consultancy and Edge Testing.
95% of Computing Science students agreed teaching staff are good at explaining things, (National Student Survey 2024).
Studies include an introduction to software development processes and technologies, including the foundations of programming in a modern programming language and the development of applications.
Core modules include object-oriented analysis and design.
You also learn how to use modern software modelling tools and development environments.
Databases are introduced, and you will learn more about how web-based and mobile applications are developed.
You will enhance technical skills in web service development and applications, and the database systems that underlie many of them.
You will study in more depth the areas which interest you and undertake a substantial individual project.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/cyber-security:
MEng (Hons) / BEng (Hons)
Lanarkshire Campus: : 5 years full-time (MEng Hons), 4 years full-time (BEng Hons).
London Campus: 3 years full-time (BEng Hons).
Contact us for info on part-time options.
I200/I201
London: January, May, September
BEng (Hons) / MEng (Hons) Cyber Security will teach you how to protect and secure modern data infrastructure.
The course will allow you to develop many industry relevant skills based around the ethical hacking framework, underpinned by a thorough understanding of both networking (CCNA) and programming theory.
As the country’s security and prosperity rests on digital foundations it has never been more important to be protected from those who seek to exploit weaknesses and launch attacks.
The course has been created to meet a growing need, as identified by the Scottish and UK Governments, for individuals who possess a skillset to meet the challenges posed by the constantly evolving computer systems.
Work placement opportunities available through the School of Engineering & Computing allow students to put theory into practice in real-world business environments.
Graduates of the degree will be looking to progress towards roles such as Chief Security Engineer (CSE) or Chief Security Officer (CSO), in sectors such as healthcare, banking and finance and various security related public sector organisations.
94% of Cyber Security students were satisfied with the teaching on the course (National Student Survey 2024).
Advanced entry is only possible to BEng (Hons) Years 2 and 3 of this course for suitably qualified applicants (see below).
There are no advanced entry opportunities on the MEng (Hons) course.
If you are initially registered and enrolled on the BEng (Hons) course, and meet the performance requirements in Years 1, 2 and 3 you may be eligible to transfer onto the MEng (Hons) in Year 4.
Teaching and learning on the course is driven by developing a solid theoretical underpinning and practical skillset.
This will allow you to develop many industry relevant skills based around the ethical hacking framework, underpinned by a thorough understanding of both networking (CCNA) and programming theory.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/music-technology:
W350
The BSc Music Technology provides students with the knowledge and practical experience to work in a range of areas within the creative music, audio and media sectors.
Guest speakers from industry also form part of the course to further deepen your understanding of the subject.
The Paisley Campus facilities include three professional industry-standard recording studios, two specialist iMac audio labs and students also have access to a live music venue
We offer areas of study that focus on developing high-calibre graduates ready for a successful career in the music and media industry.
This course is accredited by JAMES (Joint Audio Media Education Support) and is an Avid Learning Partner (offering the opportunity to gain Pro Tools certification).
Throughout this course you will provide you the knowledge and practical experience needed to work in the creative music, audio and media sectors.
You’ll develop a wide range of industry-relevant technical skills related to music and audio production.
Teaching is delivered between two dedicated Apple Mac labs complete with two recording studios and two surround post-production suites, one of which is Dolby Atmos enabled.
The studios operate with Pro Tools and Logic with a selection of outboard processing hardware catering for up to 24 channels of recording
You’ll also have access to industry standard software and hardware.
Our Macs are equipped with the latest versions of Avid Pro Tools, Ableton Live, Apple Logic Pro X, Final Cut X and Max for Live.
Recent industry g uest speakers include Derek Richards FSRA ; Andrew Britton of BBC Scotland; Alan McEwan, Studio Manager Brick Lane Studios ; and Ross Cooney of Street Jazz Music Group .
MUSIC TECHNOLOGY PROGRAMME LEADER
This course features a placement in Year 3, which may be with a UK music industry company or abroad in a partner institution, such as the Harris Institute in Canada.
Music Technology graduates have the technical skills, business awareness and networking abilities to secure roles in industries including: audio post-production; acoustics and live sound; broadcast audio; education; immersive game audio; music mixing & mastering; sound design; and video and media production.
Graduates from this degree will be able to apply for master's degrees in music technology, audio technology and sound production.
The BSc Music Technology will teach you to produce and process music and audio ready for distribution for applications including web and multimedia, film, animation, and computer games.
​Y ou will also be involved in studio recording and production, location recording and audio post-production, electronic music composition and sound design.
92% of Music Technology students were satisfied overall with the course (National Student Survey 2024).
Students will be introduced to modern audio/music recording and production techniques through creating podcasts and music recording projects in the studio with a range of software and AVID Pro Tools systems.
Creativity within computer-based music will be studied and developed.
Within live sound and acoustics, they will work with analogue and digital consoles and small PA systems.
They will also investigate and develop an appreciation of the scope of music production and the music and media industry.
Studio recording and production techniques are further developed with a deeper focus on industry technical standards.
You will study electronic music and understand MIDI control through composition and sound design in Ableton .
Audio post production work enhances your skills in synchronisation, editing and processing techniques for deliverable media.
Practical impulse response capture and room acoustics theory provides you with contextualised learning in reverberation, room design and acoustic analysis.
Continuing studies in sound reinforcement theory and systems will culminate with group work and the technical production of a live music event.
You will work in small production teams with musicians and artists producing professional multi-song recordings (EP's), video and web content for promotional purposes for the artist.
This will be used to showcase your employable skills within a portfolio context.
Music and media industry business and legal aspects are studied in terms of employment and entrepreneurship.
Audio processing is introduced through the creation of a suite of effects developed in Max For Live for Ableton Live.
You will have an opportunity to participate in a music industry placement in the UK or abroad in a partner institution, such as the Harris Institute in Canada.
The honours year features an extensive individual project culminating in the production of a dissertation and portfolio assets.
You can customise your topic to enable you to develop specialised knowledge and skills towards your area of interest for future employment.
You will be required to raise the quality of your work to implement professional and European standards for the delivery of audio in stereo and surround formats.
Using current industry relevant mastering plug- in software and applying your professional listening skills, you will finalise selected tracks and format them for distribution.
You will produce and synchronise all the audio assets required to complete a sound track for an animated short film.
You will apply the principles of signal processing in the development of software synthesisers and generative MIDI sequencing devices using Max For Live in Ableton Live.
You will further develop your sound design and audio post-production skills within a non-linear audio environment for the specific requirements of computer games.
You will be taught through a combination of lectures, tutorials and production workshops.
The BA (Hons) Commercial Music is designed for anyone with a passion for music and who wishes to forge a lifelong and varied career in the industry.
Full time, Clearing 2025
The MA in Music (Songwriting/Sound Production/Industries) provides personalised learning experiences underpinned by professionally relevant research, knowledge exchange and enterprise.
Full time, Part time

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/web-mobile-development:
G450
The BSc Web & Mobile Development will equip you with the skills to design, develop and maintain secure web services and mobile applications that harness the capabilities of the internet.
Using the latest tools, techniques and scripting languages, you’ll develop expertise in systems design and analysis and learn how to develop responsive, interactive and secure web and mobile solutions.
The practical skills you learn will allow you establish and manage secure web servers and create and maintain appropriate web material.
With a strong practical focus, the degree has strong industry links.
There are opportunities for undertake work placements and it incorporates guest speakers, company visits and networking events with employers.
Opportunities to study abroad are also available.
Ali Tufail, Web & Mobile Development graduate and Web Developer, The Drum
Work placement opportunities available through the School of Computing, Engineering & Physical Sciences allow you to put theory into practice in real-world business environments.
There are opportunities for both gaining a 'Sandwich degree' (one which incorporates periods of industrial experience) through either a full-time, paid placement lasting for a full academic session and for shorter, part-time placements in second and third year.
This programme is held in high regard in local industry and graduates have gone on to secure roles, including: Mobile developer / Web Programmer / Web Developer / Systems Administrator & Developer / Lecturer / Teacher
Web and mobile technologies have radically altered our personal and professional lives, giving billions of us access to unprecedented resources, social networks and secure internet transactions.
To support this high-technology growth sector, demand is strong for skilled professionals who can design and develop mobile apps, web services software and administer their infrastructure.
You will gain expertise in systems design and analysis.
You will use the latest tools, techniques and scripting languages to develop dynamic, interactive and secure web and responsive mobile solutions.
93% of Web & Mobile Development students were satisfied with the teaching on the course (National Student Survey 2024).
Representatives from companies such as Traveltek and Skyscanner have delivered lectures to students about what they do and how they recruit.
In Year 1, your focus will be significantly aimed towards web development.
You'll learn essential markup languages like HTML5 for content creation and dive deep into CSS3 for webpage styling.
Alongside design, navigation, and accessibility, you'll explore key web technologies that have shaped the internet, including an introduction to client-server architecture and search engine optimization.
Apart from web development, you'll also get a foundational understanding of computing systems, learning the hardware and software that make up a computer.
You'll be introduced to basic programming, covering essential topics such as data structures and loops, which lays the groundwork for future technical courses.
Additionally, you'll touch on networking fundamentals, opening a pathway toward CCNA certification.
In Year 2, you'll delve into the fundamentals of data management, learning how to plan, define, and design databases with a focus on data integrity and security.
You'll explore core programming concepts, including data abstraction and object-oriented principles like encapsulation and inheritance.
You'll gain insights into the architecture and functionalities of operating systems, exploring key components like memory management and file systems.
Your studies will also introduce you to analytical thinking in the context of IT-based business systems, emphasizing requirements analysis and ethical considerations in system design.
Moreover, you'll venture into mobile development, starting with basic programming principles, even if you haven't had prior experience in Java or C#.
Year 2 equips you with essential skills in database management, programming, operating systems, and analytical thinking, providing a solid foundation for a career in web and mobile development.
You will undertake studies in the use of HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript for client-side website development with ASP.NET and PHP on the server side.
You will also configure and administer a number of secure servers for the deployment of web/mobile services.
You will meet employers that recruit current Web & Mobile Development students for part-time work and paid internships.
You will extend your studies of client-server systems plus emerging web server technologies and undertake a major individual project.
This project will meet the needs of employers interested in recruiting graduates of the Web & Mobile Development.
You will present your project at the annual networking event - Digital Futures.
There is a practical emphasis on teaching and throughout the course, most assessment is based on practical assignments with relatively few formal examinations.
Dr Alcaraz-Calero

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/commercial-music:
4 years full-time
W340
Ayr: September
Janine is a final year student on our BA (Hons) Commercial Music programme at our stunning Ayr campus.
Janine found her place at UWS – find yours!
The BA (Hons) Commercial Music programme is designed to equip our students and graduates with the skills, knowledge and experience to carve out a career in the ever-evolving commercial music industries.
The programme is organised around Music Industries studies, Songwriting and Performance, Sound Production, and Music and Cultural Research.
Whether you’re interested in music promotion, songwriting, teaching, tour management, research, sound engineering or instrumental performance, you’ll be able to plan your pathway through the programme to suit your career aspirations.
Developed and delivered in collaboration with music industry professionals, this programme focuses on contemporary issues in commercial music and the opportunities new media has opened up.
BA Commercial Music is part of the UWS Creative Skillset Media Academy, and is accredited by JAMES (Joint Audio Media Education Support) – an industry accreditation body and recognised Professional and Statutory Regulation Body for music and media education in HE.
All applicants will be expected to submit a strong personal statement and reference.
Applicants may be invited for interview.
BA (Hons) Commercial Music aims to support students in developing their creative practice as performers, producers and composers/songwriters, their understanding of the cultural values and meanings of music, and their knowledge of the structures and revenue streams of the music industries.
Whether you see yourself as a performer, a songwriter, a producer, an aspiring teacher of researcher, or a future music industries professional, the programme seeks to help you expand your skills, knowledge and experience across key areas of the music industries in the UK and beyond.
Based on our Ayr campus, the learning and teaching on the programme is organised around core strands and concepts relating to the modern music industries, focusing on Music Industries studies, Songwriting and Performance, Sound Production, and Music and Cultural Research.
You will work with UWS staff and visiting lecturers, who are themselves practicing music industry professionals, and you'll make key contacts across the music industry.
Introduction to the theory and practice of music performance, production, business and cultural theory.
First year offers you the opportunity to broaden your scope and investigate theatres of music you may not previously have considered.
Focus on your chosen specialism of performance, production, business or theory while developing your understanding of media theory and intellectual property.
Second year allows you to experience several key sectors of the professional music industries.
Deepen your engagement with your specialist area of study, completing a major self-directed project.
You may also undertake work-related learning within the industry which is an ideal entry point for future employment.
Complete a Creative Research Project in which you either research and write a 10,000-word dissertation, OR develop and implement a major piece of music-based creative practice work.
Mentoring and careers planning activities help you to develop your action plan for employment upon graduating.
BA (Hons) Commercial Music is designed for student success by promoting creativity, autonomy and employability both in terms of module content and course structure.
We offer inspirational and transformative learning within a flexible and personalised curriculum.
This is based on a model of research and experiential learning, with a mix of practical, project-based work and critical analysis of contemporary popular music culture and the global music industries.
Our graduates hold jobs in almost every corner of the music industries in Scotland and beyond, holding positions such as record company personnel, teachers, promoters, music marketing and PR specialists, tour managers, sound engineers, music lecturers, producers and performing and recording artists.
Many of our graduates choose to go on to further study, leading to an MA, MSc, PhD or teaching qualification.
For students seeking to extend their studies at UWS, we offer Masters qualifications in MA Music, MA Songwriting and Performance, MA Sound Production and MA Music Industries.
In May 2024, we celebrated the creative endeavours of UWS students at our annual showcase and awards event on our beautiful Ayr campus.
The event boasted film screenings, broadcast production work, live music performances, art exhibition displays, theatre productions, songwriters’ circle and news-room journalism material.
Elements of the event were also broadcast via UWS Radio.
You can now view the Commercial Music digital showcase to see the types of opportunities available to our students as part of their BA Commercial Music degree with UWS.
DIGITAL ARTS AND MEDIA SHOWCASE
The BA (Hons) Performance will hone your stage acting talents, allowing you to develop transferable skills in a range of performance disciplines.
The BSc (Hons) Music Technology gives you the knowledge and practical skills to work in technology related jobs in the music and media industry.
UWS’s BA (Hons) TV, Radio & Podcast Production degree will prepare you for success in the broadcast industry.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/filmmaking-screen-writing:
WW68
The BA Filmmaking & Screen Writing degree offers you the opportunity to engage creatively and critically with all aspects of Filmmaking.
The practical focus of the degree provides you with experience of scriptwriting, pre-production planning & research, hands-on filmmaking, and post-production techniques.
This programme is accredited by ScreenSkills Scotland and provides valuable preparation for careers in the creative industries.
The course combines three main strands.
The first of these is practical and the focus is on developing competence in a variety of film production roles.
The second is focused on screenwriting and developing confidence in presenting ideas on the page.
The final strand is broadly focused on the study of film as an artform.
This strand encourages students to develop research skills and use these to further develop their own creative development as a budding filmmaker.
The three strands are complimentary and inter-connected.
Many modules are taught by industry professionals, and you will use the latest digital film technology, television studios, and performance spaces.
In recent years, students have benefited from masterclasses with internationally acclaimed writers, directors, producers, cinematographers, and editors.
Whilst the programme is based at Ayr campus, it also benefits from having a teaching space at Film City, Glasgow, which is the hub for filmmaking activity in Scotland.
The first year provides an introduction to digital filmmaking and screenwriting with core modules providing hands-on experience in a variety of practical roles.
Develop your own story ideas and learn how to communicate these ideas effectively with our innovative introduction to scriptwriting.
Study the aesthetics of film and learn how the language of storytelling has evolved over the years.
Find out more about the British film industry and the cinematic landmarks that have challenged and enriched our cultural lives.
You will continue to develop your craft skills with a focus on short film.
Begin your journey with an immersive documentary module before continuing your exploration of short fiction where you will further hone your craft skills before moving on to acquire new skills in post-production.
Deepen your knowledge and understanding of different filmmaking traditions and genres with two contrasting film studies modules.
Consolidate your expertise in script development and add to your growing portfolio of short screenplays.
Engage in more ambitious filmmaking and scriptwriting projects, developing a sophisticated appreciation of contemporary themes in cinematic theory and practice.
At this level of study, you will be specialising in particular areas of practice and you will have the opportunity to choose an option to enhance your CV.
Options include Work Related Learning, Writing Serial Television Drama and Studio Production.
Level 9 of the BA Filmmaking & Screen Writing is also delivered in collaboration with New College Lanarkshire, as a ‘top up’ degree for students progressing through their HND programmes.
The programme is designed to equip students with the skills and attitude to meet the challenges of a career in the creative industries.
The Honours year is dedicated to building your confidence as a professional ready to enter the creative industries.
You will complete a major creative project in a specialist area of filmmaking of your choosing,  and consolidate your understanding of film production.
The Honours year is all about developing your creative autonomy and independence.
In addition to undertaking a 60 credit creative project, you will also choose 3 options.
Options include Experimental Film and Filmmaking (NEW for 2024), Writing the Feature Screenplay (NEW for 2024), Asian Cinema, Music, Film and Sound Aesthetics, Work Related Learning and Motion Graphics.
You can now view the Filmmaking & Screen Writing digital showcase to see the types of opportunities available to our students as part of their BA (Hons) Filmmaking & Screen Writing degree with UWS.
Digital Arts and Media Showcase
UWS graduates work as script editors, directors, camera operators and editors.
The growth in the independent production sectors in Scotland and the UK, has broadened career opportunities in the industry.
In addition to film and television production, graduates also work in journalism, marketing, management and education.
Further study is possible at MA and PhD level.
See list of courses available.
The BA (Hons) Journalism (Sports) is a top-up degree which builds upon your HND and prepares you intellectually and practically for success in the modern multi-platform world of journalism.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/graphic-arts-moving-image:
3rd year entry, 2 years
W902
Pursue your passion for art that tells a story.
UWS’s BA (Hons) Graphic Arts & Moving Image provides entry to exciting career opportunities for the next generation of artists.
Whether through animation, illustration, television & film graphics or the production of graphic novels you will build a professional portfolio that will develop your creativity, skills and employability across the contemporary creative industries.
With teaching led by creative industries professionals you will work in our contemporary art studios and labs at the beautiful Ayr campus.
Graduates will develop skills and experience to support careers in:
All applicants will be required to submit a personal statement, reference and portfolio.
PLUS Higher English (Grade B or above) or accepted alternative
APL refers to certificated learning of full or part completion of academic qualifications for which there is an agreed, general credit rating or recommendation as set out in the University’s Regulatory Framework: “Appropriate learning, wherever acquired, provided that it has been subject to reliable and valid methods of assessment, is accepted for the purpose of gaining academic credit towards an award of the University.” Applicants who have successfully completed a programme of certificated learning at a recognised UK awarding institution are considered for admission with credit, at an appropriate point on the programme of study for which entry is being sought.
APEL is defined as learning that has its source in experience, for example at work or in the community.
The assessment of APEL is undertaken by the University.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/journalism-journalism-sport:
2 years full-time
P500
The UWS BA (Hons) Journalism / Journalism (Sports) course prepares you intellectually and practically for success in the modern multi-platform world of journalism – with the opportunity to specialise in news, sport or pursue a broader journalism curriculum.
You will study news reporting, interviewing and writing skills and prepare yourself for the demands of today's dynamic and fluid news environment.
The course underpins practical production and broadcasting skills with theoretical insight into ethical and effective journalism.
You will build your knowledge of national and local government, international relations, and civil and criminal law relating to the media.
The subject areas at the core of the degree provide a strong foundation in a range of specific journalistic disciplines.
Core modules will comprise practical journalism modules in newsgathering, producing news and features, layout & design, digital video production, broadcast journalism, as well as work placements.
Laurie, BA (Hons) Journalism (Sport)
Applicants will be invited for interview.
HND:
Undertake a work placement in a news organisation and participate in news production classes, developing your understanding of journalistic ethics.
Complete a dissertation on an aspect of journalism or sports journalism and its role in society.
And undertake a major creative project, producing a range of multimedia portfolio-based work.
You can now view the Journalism / Journalism (Sport) digital showcase to see the types of opportunities available to our students as part of their BA (Hons) Journalism / Journalism (Sport) degree with UWS.
Blair, Journalism student
The BA (Hons) Filmmaking & Screen Writing offers a unique balance between film theory, filmmaking and script writing, enabling you to develop industry-relevant skills.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/performance:
W400
Our BA (Hons) Performance programme is designed to help you become a creative maker, critical thinker, and work ready.
In your first year, you will be introduced to a range of practical skills and knowledge to help build your understanding of the fundamentals of making and studying performance.
Your second year uses your new and established skills and strengths to learn to analyse and critically reflect on your practice and explore new approaches to what performance is and can be.
Third year offers both continuing and Direct Entry students a range of opportunities to explore your own interests and specialisms, as a way of developing your own creative practice.
Your final year is a culmination of your practical and critical learning, where you engage with student-led projects and industry mentors to serve as a strong foundation for entering your chosen career path.
To enhance your learning, the programme also offers masterclasses with visiting artists, workshops with leading industry professionals, and partnerships with national and international arts organisations and venues, providing you with valuable networking and showcasing opportunities for you and your work.
Degree/diploma qualifications in an unrelated subject accompanied by professional theatre experience will be considered.
Applicants may be invited for interview/audition.
Whatever your eventual career goal, the Performance programme at UWS is designed to empower you to explore and build your creative skills and interests to pursue a variety of possible pathways.
We recognise the important role that having practical, industry-focused experience has on securing a graduate career, which is why this programme offers a range of real-world professional settings to help you hone your practice.
By offering a combination of practical and theoretical study, this programme will provide you with the opportunities to work across multiple disciplines so that you can learn and create independently and collaboratively in a variety of contexts, from professional performance making, to community arts, education, and further research.
OPTIONS
The BA (Hons) Performance course at UWS is designed to equip the student to become a creative maker, a critical thinker and work ready.
Drawing on the expertise of the teaching team and visiting lectures, you will gain insights into the contemporary performance industries and develop a robust understanding of how performance is made, the cultural and social significance of performance and performance theory.
Our focus on practice, history, theory and industry allows you to explore performance critically and practically and gain a deeper understanding of diverse creative and research practices.
You will be encouraged to develop your existing skills and passions whilst engaging with a series of new skills.
Core and optional modules will provide a grounding in performance and performance making whilst supporting you to develop your own path and enabling you to position yourself within a variety of performance-related disciplines.
The course is for emerging performers, performance makers and those interested in developing their practical skills, researching their discipline and thinking critically about performance and culture.
You can now view the Performance digital showcase to see the types of opportunities available to our students as part of their BA (Hons) Performance degree with UWS.
Our BA (Hons) Performance programme here at UWS will equip you with the knowledge and practical skills to kick-start the following career pathways:

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/tv-radio-podcast-production:
P391
Our UWS TV, Radio & Podcast Production degree course will prepare you for success in the broadcast industry by teaching you how to create, produce and understand television, radio, podcasting and other modern digital media content.
You will work in the UWS radio, podcast and television studios using the latest broadcasting facilities and digital sound and video editing suites.
The course incorporates excellent teaching staff with professional guest lectures and work related opportunities.
There will also be field visits to major national and international media organisations including the BBC and Glasgow’s Film City.
You will also have the opportunity to broadcast on the campus radio station as part of this course, as well as other opportunities to gain hands-on practical experience working in live media.
98% of students were satisfied overall with the academic support on the programme (National Student Survey 2024)
Eve, BA (Hons) TV, Radio & Podcast Production at UWS
Meet our talented team of lecturers, who bring valuable industry experience from top companies like BBC, MTV, and Channel 4 to our programme
Kate worked as a literary agent and story editor working with writers developing scripted drama for TV and Film.
She then moved onto unscripted whilst at Hartswood Films, researching for documentaries and went on to interview the last surviving British POWs from Colditz.
She has mostly worked freelance as a producer and director in documentary and factual entertainment television, mainly focussed on arts and culture.
As a practitioner, she has produced and directed, scripted, filmed and researched programmes for primetime BBC One and Two, Channel Four, Five, Sky One, STV and Discovery.
Those shows included Animal Park, Days that Shook the World and Comedy Connections.
She also produced a series of programmes for BBC4 around key social figures from the 60s including David Attenborough, Ronald Searle and Desmond Morris.
She wrote scripts, managed large budgets, tight schedules and expert crew.
Kate has also undertaken freelance filmmaking commissions for various organisations including Amma Birth Companions, Police Scotland and the Glasgow Improvisers Orchestra.
Kate still very much enjoys being hands-on with cameras and edits.
At UWS , she has worked with students to develop video content for Cop26 and BBC 5050 and liaises with a variety of local organisations to create video and social media content.
Taught subjects: Creative Research Project, TV Drama and Society, Broadcasting Concepts and Contexts, American TV and Professional Practice.
Paul has worked in broadcast television production for over twenty years, in London, San Francisco and Glasgow.
As a freelance producer/director he has made over one hundred hours of television.
This has included documentary, obdocs, reality tv, factual entertainment, drama-documentary, talk shows, quiz shows, features and children’s television.
Most recently he was asked to Edit Produce the first episode in the six part series 'Inside Central Station' for the new BBC Scotland channel.
In the channel's first week, this was the most watched original programme outside of the channel's opening night.
Other highlights include producing and directing a drama documentary about murderer Peter Manuel, shown on BBC Alba’s opening night.
Also his own production company made the Edwyn Collins documentary Home Again that was shown on BBC Scotland, BBC4 and BBC2.
It has also been shown at film festivals in Spain, Chile and Argentina.
He has a list of primetime network credits as producer, director and series producer.
Most recently he has worked as Edit Producer on the BAFTA winning Antiques Road Trip.
He has worked as a Storyline Editor on broadcast drama scripts.
Bettina worked in the Broadcast Industry for over 14 years in London and Berlin.
Working as a freelancer on mainly factual programmes for major UK and US channels such as Channel 4, BBC and National Geographic, her roles included self-shooting producer and director, production manager and edit producer.
She also worked on several docu dramas as the series drama producer responsible for the re-enactments.
Documentaries and series she worked on include science documentaries such as BAFTA award winning "Inside Nature's Giants" for Channel 4, "Monster Moves: Mountain Mission" for National Geographic as well as history drama docs such as "The Great Escape: The Reckoning" (Channel 4) and "America's Secret Space Heroes" for Smithsonian Channel and long running "Locked Up Abroad" series for National Geographic and Channel 5 UK.
Areas of expertise are in documentary filmmaking with the focus on science, history and docu-drama and the way the visual stories unfold.
She is interested in feminist theories as well as representation and production culture and ethical filmmaking approaches.
Shona is an experienced educator and specialist in screen-based production at UWS.
As a professional videographer, she ran her own commercial video company for over a decade before commencing lecturing full-time in 2016.
A member of the Institute of Videography, Shona has produced several high profile online campaigns for the Scottish Government and tourism industry.
Other media campaigns include social inclusion and education initiatives, drug addiction, combating antisocial behaviour and highlighting homelessness.
Shona has undertaken freelance editing commissions for various media outlets including the BBC and is Avid certified and Final Cut Pro accredited.
With a passion for community and arts collaboration Shona is responsible for the Studio Lab initiative.
Studio Lab is a collaborative, cross-discipline enterprise where students are trained in a variety of technical and creative aspects of studio production.
Studio Lab has created successful links with both local and international partners including Centennial College in Toronto, Ayr United Football team and Ayrshire Addiction Services along with internal partnerships with the School of Engineering and the School of Nursing as part of two high profile online campaigns.
Shona is a Fellow of the HEA and a doctoral researcher.
Academic areas of interest include the implementation of AR into teaching practice.
Taught subjects: MA Television Journalism, Studio Production, Introduction to Television and Television Production: Skills Development.
As a Presenter and Broadcast Journalist his work includes Television and Radio presenting credits for BBC Television, MTV, Scottish Television, BBC Radio Scotland, BBC Radio 1/Radio 2, BBC Asian Network, Glasgow Commonwealth Games 2014 and Children In Need.
Ravi also specialises in areas of digital streaming cross social media platforms, including hosting and producing a Health and Fitness series for digital content stream platform ‘BBC The Social’ and enjoys sharing his experiences through teaching multiplatform content delivery.
Dan Twist is a BAFTA Scotland and RTS Scotland award-winning TV Producer with over twenty years experiencing working in the British TV and media sector.
Dan has worked in TV development production for Factual, Features, and Entertainment series.
Recently, Dan was the Producer for Channel 4 documentary film, Billionaire Blooms at Christmas .
In 2019, Dan became a Channel Executive at Channel 4 in the Nations and Regions department.
Where he supported the independent TV production companies in building relationships with the channel, he also nurtured diverse talent and supported production companies’ growth fund grant applications.
Dan joined the lecturing staff part-time in 2021, where he continues to blend working in the industry with lecturing and academic research.
Dan's research interest is in media production cultures, factual formats development and Multiplatform.
He teaches modules Production for Multiplatform and American TV.
Chris Gilgallon is a longstanding member of the team specialising in radio and situation comedy.
He has worked in radio comedy as a writer and has also worked as a photographer undertaking commercial briefs.
He has a background in community arts having managed government funded projects in Ayrshire.
He has an interest in using a combination of still images and soundscapes as a form of narrative.
Chris is also manager of UWS Radio, the university's radio station which is based on the Ayr campus.
Graham Jeffery is Professor in Arts and Media Practice and Director of the Protracted Crisis Research Centre at UWS.
His work spans participatory and community arts and media practices, creative learning, cultural policy and urban and community development.
He is currently leading a three-year British Academy funded project: Waste, Water and Wellbeing: lessons from the interface of formal/informal urban systems in Dharavi, Mumbai .
His work in in the creative media sector includes music and sound for award-winning short films, and exhibitions, performances and events that act as public platforms for debating key issues in urban development, social justice and sustainability.
Graham has also worked as a teacher, composer and facilitator in a wide range of contexts, including with London International Festival of Theatre, the BBC Scottish Symphony Orchestra and East London Dance, as well as in policy advice and consultancy for Creative Scotland and the Department for Culture, Media and Sport.
He has led numerous action research projects with diverse communities in different places around the world.
He keeps a blog at www.generalpraxis.org.uk .
All applicants will be expected to submit a strong personal statement and reference together with evidence of confident use of English and creative output.
Applicants may be invited for interview and/or audition.
Communication; Interactive Media; Media; Communication with Media; Media Analysis & Production; Sound Production; Radio Production; Creative Industries: Television; Creative Industries: Radio or any other relevant media discipline).
This course combines theory and practice and is tailored to the current broadcasting industry.
The course is professionally accredited by ScreenSkills, having undergone a rigorous assessment process conducted by industry experts.
You will work in our radio, podcasting and television studios using the latest broadcasting facilities and digital sound and video editing software.
You will be introduced to the theory and practice of TV, film, podcasting and radio production whilst developing your personal and academic skills.
You will begin to focus on your chosen specialisms, developing technical and creative skills in areas such as radio, podcasting and analysing media content.
You will make a documentary, work in our TV Studios and develop your own creative writing.
You will choose to specialise in one of two major strands: television production or radio production.
You will also learn about multiplatform content creation and enhance your research skills ahead of your final honours year.
You will choose modules of particular interest from a varied menu of options.
This will focus on creative and research projects that bring together all of the skills and concepts you’ve learned throughout the course.
A range of teaching and learning methodologies are used within the degree.
This includes lectures, seminars, workshops, group work, enquiry-based learning and student-centred learning.
In the latter case, the emphasis is on independent work by students that is coordinated and guided by tutors.
BPTVR students are as likely to be taught in TV and Radio studios as in lecture theatres.
As students progress the level of autonomous work increases culminating in the final year project where students carry out their own individual project – linking the creative and theoretical - with supervisory guidance.
You can view the Broadcast Production: TV & Radio digital showcase to see the types of opportunities available to our students as part of their Broadcast Production: TV & Radio BA (Hons) degree with UWS.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/childhood-studies:
3 years full-time, flexible part-time
Education & Social Sciences
Ayr, Dumfries, Lanarkshire
L560
Dumfries (full-time only): September
Build a career in childhood services with UWS BA (Hons) Childhood Studies programme.
Throughout this programme, you'll gain an understanding of the issues related to early childhood and services for children and families.
You will learn about the values underpinning children’s services, and the importance of working in partnership with professionals from a range of disciplines.
You will consider issues relating to management and leadership of early learning and childcare services.
To develop your practical knowledge, you’ll have the chance to complete two 3-week blocks of work-based experience each year.
In Year 3, you will have the option to complete placement in an international setting (currently available in Italy, Spain and Germany).
Hayley, BA (Hons) Childhood Studies at UWS
You will have the chance to apply your knowledge in a professional setting with two 3-week blocks of work-based experience each year.
Recent student placements were located in local authority establishments and private providers.
In Year 3, there is the opportunity to gain experience abroad, with students having worked in Italy and Spain in previous years.
National Student Survey (NSS) 2023
Applicants who do not meet the entry criteria, but hold similar childcare qualifications together with relevant work experience, are encouraged to contact us for advice on Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) for entry to second year.
All applicants will be interviewed prior to being offered a place on the course.
Successful applicants who gain a place on this course will need to register on the PVG Scheme, managed and delivered by Disclosure Scotland.
An application form will be sent from the University once you have accepted your offer.
The fee for joining the scheme is £59.
Visit the Disclosure Scotland website for more information on the PVG scheme.
The BA Childhood Studies includes:
Guest speakers will help to further improve your understanding of the subject.
Recent speakers have included Professor Li Li of Kunming University, who provided details on international perspectives of early years provision in China.
Sue Robson of Roehampton University addressed creativity in the early years.
Through your studies and work-based learning opportunities, you will learn about health and well-being, social justice and equality, holistic child development and develop your self-reflection skills.
Leadership and teamwork skills are developed in a variety of early learning and childcare settings.
You will also reflect on how to effectively support children’s communication and early literacy skills.
Through your studies and work-based learning opportunities, you will learn more about management and leadership skills in an early years setting.
You will explore multi-agency working and the importance of providing effective integrated services.
You will have opportunities to promote creativity across the curriculum.
International policies and practices of early education and childcare are studied.
You will be introduced to qualitative research methods and undertake a research project.
There are opportunities to undertake an international placement.
The Honours year supports you to develop specialist knowledge and practice in an area of your own interest.
You will also deepen your knowledge of the core themes of theory, research and practice through undertaking a research study and dissertation.
You will have opportunities to explore inter-professional working through asset based approaches to supporting families.
You will explore a range of pedagogical approaches to facilitating children’s play, learning and development.
The programme will be delivered using a blend of learning and teaching strategies.
These include use of the UWS virtual learning environment (Moodle), Interactive Whiteboards, online tutor/student led discussions.
Lectures, tutorials, student-led seminars, group-work, role-play, presentations, workshops, problem based learning and work related learning will be used to develop student learning.
At Level 10, the programme will be delivered partially online, utilising a blended learning format of class sessions, tutorials and online activities.
Throughout the programme learning and assessment will have a work-based focus.
This course also gives you the option of taking a language module, which can count towards your degree.
These modules cover multiple languages and range from absolute beginner to near-native speaker level.
The cost of your language module is included in the tuition fees.
BA (Hons) Childhood Studies graduates have gained employment in integrated childcare services with children under five years and out-of-school care.
They have also gained employment in project work, offering support for children and their families in roles such as family support workers, early years practitioners, and NHS community nursery nurses.
Further study towards Graduate Diploma in Childhood Practice qualifications, depending on experience, is possible.
This enables registration with SSSC as Lead Practitioner/Manager.
Graduates may also be eligible to apply for a range of postgraduate programmes, including Initial Teacher Education (Primary), Social Work and Psychology.
The BA Childhood Practice will give you the skills and knowledge to deliver quality services to children.
Part time
The BA (Hons) Education gives you the skills, knowledge and experience to build a career as a primary school teacher.
The BA (Hons) Community Education is designed for those already involved in or interested in working with people in communities to facilitate their critical and social education.
Our Graduate Diploma in Business & Management will prepare you for your chosen Master’s degree, help improve your subject knowledge, study skills and academic language level.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/community-education:
4 years full-time, flexible part-time
L540
Discover what it means to become a professionally qualified Community Educator with our BA Community Education degree.
This degree is perfect for anyone interested in working with young people , adults and communities , to engage in learning about how to live the best life possible and to challenge discrimination and all forms of injustice.
Teaching, learning and assessment are underpinned by theories and practices relating to y outh and community work, equality and social justice, wellbeing and community e mpowermen t .
This degree is designed for those already involved or interested in working with people in communities to promote learning for life and social change
40% of learning is achieved in practice-based placements that provide experiential learning in community education settings
This degree is professionally recognised and approved by the Community Learning and Development Standards Council for Scotland and is recognised as a lead practitioner qualification
Watch our video on Community Education at UWS.
Community Education Programme VIDEO
Applicants who do not meet the entry criteria but hold similar childcare qualifications, together with relevant work experience, are encouraged to contact us for advice on Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) for entry to second year.
The BA (Hons) in Community Education provides a range of social and psychological theories and practices that help students take a critical stance in contemporary policy, social economics and in the transformative capabilities of communities.
It prepares you to work in Community Education (CEd) and Community Learning and Development (CLD) at local, national and international levels.
The values and principles of CLD: self-determination, inclusion, empowerment, working collaboratively and promotion of learning as a lifelong activity, underpin the overall ethos of this course.
There are three themes running through the course:
You will be introduced to key theories in education, sociology and psychology.
You are also introduced to the CLD competences as a foundation for Personal and Professional Development Planning (PDP).
You will develop an understanding of social theory in relation to power and community contexts and will be introduced to critical pedagogy.
You will explore ideas that can be used to enhance competence in group work and communication skills.
Academic practice is embedded in all modules and students will learn one language and also take a practice learning module that is focused on building and maintaining relationships.
You will research the core domains of practice and strategies for participation and inclusion at local and international levels.
You will examine and consider how these can be applied in a range of contexts.
You will also undertake a practice learning module focussing on project and community leadership.
You will continue your studies of critical pedagogy and its purpose in creating emancipatory practice for equality and social justice.
You will develop an understanding of the tensions in managing people and resources and will learn about practice-based research.
In trimester two, you will further develop your CLD competences by completing a capstone project within a practice learning placement.
Completion of the capstone project will involve developing and evaluating a specific piece of practice.
You will evaluate your capstone project and present an artefact (such as a film, training pack or weblog) that can be used to show how the capstone project impacted on (a) your development of competences and (b) the CEd/CLD context of the practice project.
In the final year, you will develop your emerging professional identity further by studying the implications of social policy on CLD practice.
Alongside Childhood Studies, you will develop more nuanced and critical understanding of inter-professional practices.
You will also carry out a research dissertation through professional enquiry linked to practice learning.
Our learning and teaching approaches model CLD values and practices by applying an ethical and emancipatory purpose to a range of contemporary, historical and theoretical perspectives and teaching methods.
Our use of alternative, visual and participatory methods engages students in the kind of informal and critical practices that students will use to engage learners in their own practice situations.
Over 50% of our assessments involve practical or practice based tasks and there are no exams in this programme.
As a qualifying programme approved by CLD Standards Council you'll find employment opportunities in urban, rural and international locations.
As a practitioner or manager within youth work, adult education and community development you will find interesting jobs in the community, voluntary and statutory sectors.
Graduates from this programme have gone on to work in:
Students who successfully complete their degree can, for example, progress to a range of aligned UWS programmes.
The BA (Hons) Childhood Studies offers you the opportunity to build a career supporting children and their families in a variety of different environments.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/english-language:
4 years full-time (1st, 3rd & 4th year entry possible in 2025)
Q3W3
The BA (Hons) English Language is designed especially for students who do not have English as a first language.
The degree aims to assist students in their progression towards proficiency in English, and to help them develop transferable skills which will enable graduates to work more comfortably in the English language, to gain confidence in seeking employment in an English-speaking environment, and to better understand the role that language plays in the social world around them.
The degree also offers an opportunity to those who intend to train as TESOL (Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages) professionals and teach English in the UK or internationally to develop these skills through the optional Theory and Practice in English Language Teaching Module.
As well as allowing students to become highly proficient multilingual communicators, the BA (Hons) English Language equips students with critical and analytical tools to understand how language shapes society, and how society shapes language.
Students explore this through our wide range of core and optional modules that address the social, political, linguistic, cultural and educational aspects of (English) language.
This course is only open to students who do NOT have English as a first language.
Previous study at University Level must be validated by a Higher Education institution and mapped to relevant UWS RPL standards.
The BA (Hons) English Language has two objectives:
Classes develop languages skills through group discussions, presentations and reading and writing tasks.
Lessons use a combination of the latest English language resources and authentic materials.
The maximum class size is 25 students.
Classes are usually 3 hours in duration (e.g.
09001200) and, during this time, there will be a short break of approximately 15 minutes.
The assessment varies from module to module, but it typically involves a combination of presentations, portfolios, written assignment and class tests.
The broad and specialised (socio)linguistic knowledge acquired throughout the programme modules provides a holistic perspective on (English) language, allowing students to become more attentive users of English and to critically reflect on their own multilingual practices as well as those of the wider world around them.
This enhanced sensibility further supports students in the development of their language skills as well as fostering a nuanced understanding of, and appreciation for, their own linguistic repertoires.
Assessments are designed in ways that allow students to creatively draw on their own experiences to demonstrate their learning.
All UWS Languages modules are informed by the communicative methodology which focuses on the development of practical language skills.
Core language classes focus on receptive and productive skills, together with the development of an understanding of the formal structures of the language studied.
They are exposed to authentic materials in the target language in written and spoken form, including contact with speakers whose first language is English, both directly and through the full range of electronic media.
As students progress, they are expected to be increasingly able to identify their own language learning needs and to work on these independently.
All four language skills (listening, speaking, reading and writing) are assessed both formatively and summatively in the core language modules.
Across all levels, students engage with current socio-cultural, political and historical topics relating to the target cultures, thus enhancing their sense of being global citizens.
English is the most widely used language across the world and fluency immediately makes you more employable, providing you with a strong base for working in a range of national and international organisations.
This degree allows students to gain broad and deep knowledge of societal issues related to language as well as hands-on practical skills for the workplace.
Upon completion, our students are highly competent multilinguals with a strong grasp on intercultural and international communication.
This degree demonstrates to employers that our graduates possess key language and transferable skills as well as critical understanding of the role of language in society, which prepares students well for the global, multilingual and multicultural employment market.
After graduating, our students have continued their studies at postgraduate level in TESOL, Education, Social Sciences, Business and other related areas.
Local work placement opportunities can be organised through the School of Education and Social Sciences.
Global Opportunities mobility exchanges for work or study abroad are also possible.
The BA also offers an excellent pathway into the MEd TESOL (Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages) programme offered by our School.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/aircraft-engineering:
MEng (Hons) - 5 years full-time, BEng (Hons) - 4 years full-time, contact us for part-time study options
MEng: H411 / BEng: H410
The MEng (Hons) / BEng (Hons) Aircraft Engineering has been designed in partnership with the aerospace industry.
It will provide you with the skills required to work effectively in the aircraft design, manufacturing, aerodynamic and structural design and repair and overhaul sectors.
Aircraft engineers are responsible for the safety of thousands of air passengers every year.
They play a critical role in the design and certification of an airworthy aircraft in accordance with aviation standards.
Designed in partnership with aerospace industry employers, this course includes visits to organisations such as Spirit AeroSystems and British Airways.
A number of final year projects are also undertaken in collaboration with industry.
BEng (Hons) Aircraft Engineering and MEng (Hons) Aircraft Engineering are accredited by the Institution of Mechanical Engineers (IMechE) under licence from the UK regulator, the Engineering Council.
The accredited BEng (Hons) Aircraft Engineering meets, in part, the exemplifying academic benchmark requirements for registration as a Chartered Engineer and students will need to complete an approved format of further learning pursuant to the requirements of UK-SPEC.
The accredited BEng (Hons) Aircraft Engineering also automatically meets in full, the exemplifying academic benchmark requirements for registration as an Incorporated Engineer (IEng).
The accredited MEng (Hons) Aircraft Engineering fully meets the exemplifying academic benchmark requirements, for registration as a Chartered Engineer (CEng).
This programme has been designed to meet the needs of southwest Scotland’s aerospace cluster, which includes BAE Systems, Spirit AeroSystems, Collins Aerospace and Ryanair.
However, the skills you’ll develop are appropriate for careers in the UK and international industries too.
A shortage of aircraft engineers ensures that your skills will be in demand by aerospace companies locally, nationally and internationally, allowing you to take on roles in design, manufacturing or maintenance.
Career opportunities include junior management and aircraft technician roles, as well as structural aircraft design and maintenance.
As an Aircraft Engineering graduate you’ll have the wide-ranging skills to take on roles in design, research, development, manufacture or maintenance in management, technician, maintenance and design roles.
Successful completion of BEng (Hons) / MEng (Hons) would allow you to progress your studies to a taught postgraduate master's (eg MSc) or research (eg MRes, MPhil, PhD) degree.
Katie Waddell left UWS with no less than four awards for excellence, ranging from top-performing engineering student to best final-year engineering design project for her work on wingtip aerodynamics.
When Katie graduated UWS with a BEng (Hons) in Aircraft Engineering she was already in a graduate role working with Orbital Access Limited, which is developing a horizontal launch system to send satellites into space.
Katie’s time at UWS helped her clarify what she wanted from a career in engineering.
Between third and fourth year, she organised herself a three-week placement with Thales.
Unpaid short-term summer internships may be available with local aerospace companies, enhancing the practical experience and employability skills of graduates of this course.
Work placement opportunities available through the School of Computing, Engineering & Physical Sciences allow students to put theory into practice in real-world business environments.
UWS has over 100 years’ experience in training engineers.
Many of our courses are professionally accredited and designed to anticipate industry demand.
Their delivery is supported by excellent on-campus facilities.
Our students graduate with the knowledge, skills and practical experience to succeed in engineering.
94% of Aircraft Engineering students were satisfied with the academic support they received (National Student Survey 2024).
International (non-EEA) applicants are advised that they will need to obtain an Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS) certificate before they can be considered for an unconditional offer of study on this undergraduate integrated masters course.
Entry Clearance Officers (ECO) will ask to see your ATAS certificate as part of your visa application process.
UK immigration law does not allow universities to permit international students to study for an ATAS applicable course until the student has supplied the university with all the relevant ATAS certificate details for their application.
Find out more about ATAS
Topics covered include the design of aerospace structures and systems, strength of materials, vibration theory, thermofluids, materials and manufacturing technology.
The formal engineering design process and how it relates to aircraft engineering practice is introduced; as well as computer-aided design and information technology related techniques.
You’ll also study project and quality management to ensure you’re equipped with the management skills required for a demanding and rewarding engineering career.
This programme is delivered via laboratories and software sessions to ensure you have a sound academic underpinning and the practical skills necessary to launch a successful career in this industry.
Industrial visits to organisations such as Spirit AeroSystems and British Airways are incorporated into the course and these will allow you to see real-world applications of the subjects you’ll study throughout this course.
Applied statics and dynamics, materials and mathematics provide a foundation to engineering design.
Professional and industrial studies are introduced alongside skills development in communications and IT technology.
Topics include design of aerospace structures and systems, strength of materials, vibration theory, materials and manufacturing technology.
Skills in design and applied mechanics are enhanced.
Aerodynamics and aircraft performance; intelligent systems and control technologies; aircraft design and modelling; advanced computer-based analysis and simulation techniques are introduced, along with project management skills.
Aerodynamic understanding is enhanced whilst design, analysis and testing of composite structures is introduced.
Computer-aided engineering design is explored further through finite element analysis and computational fluid dynamics is introduced.
Aircraft conceptual design and a major individual project complete the learning in Year 4.
Aircraft Structural Analysis, Aeroelasticity, Advanced Finite Element Analysis and Computational Fluid Dynamics and a major Group Project are amongst the modules to complete the MEng (Hons) programme of study.
A variety of assessment approaches are utilised throughout the course such as examination, written coursework, portfolio and presentations.
Rafail, BEng (Hons) Aircraft Engineering student
The MEng (Hons) / BEng (Hons) Aerospace Engineering provides you with the knowledge and skills needed for the design, build of aerospace vehicles and their systems.
The MEng (Hons) / BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering focuses on industry-relevant topics giving you knowledge of key scientific and engineering principles.
The BEng (Hons) Engineering Management will enable graduates to pursue an engineering career in a continuous improvement, planning, supervisory or project management role.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/chemical-engineering:
MEng (Hons) – 3rd Year Entry: 3 years full-time, 4 years full-time (sandwich) / BEng (Hons) – 3rd Year Entry: 2 years full-time, 3 years full-time (sandwich).
Contact us for information on part-time options.
BEng: H810
Professionally accredited, and with paid placement opportunities, the MEng (Hons) / BEng (Hons) Chemical Engineering offers excellent job prospects and the potential to help create a sustainable planet.
This course combines academic study, hands-on experience and group projects to ensure you develop the essential practical and communication abilities required by employers in the chemical engineering and processing industries.
Chemical engineering is at the forefront of the quest to produce clean energy and satisfy human needs across a number of areas in an environmentally friendly and sustainable way.
These areas include pharmaceuticals, health, food, drink, oil, gas, petrochemicals, agriculture, fine chemicals and materials.
Entry to this course is only available at Year 3 to BEng (Hons).
If you are initially registered and enrolled on the BEng (Hons) course and meet the performance requirements you may be eligible to transfer onto the MEng (Hons) at a later stage of your programme .
The BEng (Hons) course is accredited by the Institution of Chemical Engineers (IChemE) under license from the UK regulator, the Engineering Council.
Accreditation is a mark of assurance that the degree meets the high standards set by the Engineering Council in the UK for Professional Engineering Competence (UKSPEC).
The curriculum is designed to satisfy internationally recognised accreditation requirements.
You will undergo a period of pilot plant-based training as part of the course and you can opt to take a one-year paid industrial placement between Year 3 and Year 4 as a supervised, junior chemical engineer.
Placements are obtained competitively and can be in any branch of the chemical/process industry in the UK or abroad.
Previous placements have included GlaxoSmithKline, British Nuclear Fuels, Doosan Babcock, Diageo and Sellafield Ltd.
If you are initially registered and enrolled on the BEng (Hons) course, and meet the performance requirements you may be eligible to transfer onto the MEng (Hons) at a later stage in your programme.
FIND OUT MORE ABOUT ATAS
Over the course of the MEng/BEng Chemical Engineering, you will study engineering, mathematics and chemistry principles; gain practical experience through laboratory work; and use world-class process simulation tools such as Aspen Suite and Ansys Fluent.
Combining theoretical study, practical experience and group projects, you’ll develop the essential skills demanded by employers in the chemical engineering and processing industries.
Throughout the course, there will be several industry experts who will lecture to you and who will share their expertise through special guest lectures.
For example, staff from NEL (E ngineering Consultancy) recently presented to students on the critical importance of correct measurements in science and engineering.
Core chemical engineering subjects including process design, transport processes, engineering thermodynamics, separation processes, process safety, process control and project management are covered.
Optional Industry Placement
One year can be spent on paid placement as a supervised, junior chemical engineer in industry.
Study includes core and advanced topics in separation processes, chemical reactor design, thermal systems design and integration, process safety, process control and some economic aspects of the process industry.
You will also undertake a chemical engineering design study.
Advanced studies into the sustainability and the integration of chemical plants and processes, plus the advanced understanding of heat transfer and fluid mechanics and their computational simulation.
You will also undertake a major research project.
These modules cover ten languages and range from absolute beginner to near-native speaker level.
View the language modules on offer.
You will engage with a range of complimentary and creative learning and teaching approaches throughout the BEng Chemical Engineering, including:
These are designed to help develop knowledge and understanding of key specialisms within Chemical Engineering in a changing global environment.
But, they also to provide opportunities for you to reflect on your personal development in terms of confidence, employability skills and aim to help prepare you for a successful career in chemical/process industries.
The MEng/BEng Chemical Engineering degrees use a variety of assessment methods including both formative and summative assessment modes.
This include formative assessment during tutorials, practical laboratory exercises and process simulation sessions as well as written exams, written reports, design exercises, oral presentations and essays.
Chemical engineers are involved in the design, operation and management of plants and processes resulting in products that influence our wellbeing and quality of life.
The MEng/BEng Chemical Engineering prepare you for a long and rewarding career in the chemical and processing industries.
Graduates from Chemical Engineering have gained employment with a number of high-profile and sector-leading companies including:
Our graduates have secured roles in research, design, development, manufacturing and production.
The BEng (Hons) course partially satisfying the educational base for a Chartered Engineer (CEng) with the IChemE.
This course prepares you for further study on an accredited master's degree which will allow you to apply for Chartered Engineer status.
Successful completion of BEng (Hons) would allow progression to postgraduate study on one of the University’s Postgraduate Diploma or MSc programmes.
It is anticipated that when accredited, the MEng (Hons) will fully satisfy the educational base for a Chartered Engineer (CEng) with the IChemE.
If you successful complete MEng (Hons) you could progress to PhD study.
Graduate study at other universities is possible and some of our graduates have even progressed to undertake a teaching qualification.
The BSc (Hons) Chemistry is accredited by the Royal Society of Chemistry, preparing you for a range of potential careers in chemistry or science more generally.
The BSc (Hons) Chemistry with Education prepares you for a rewarding career as a secondary school Chemistry teacher.
Ayr, Paisley
The MEng (Hons) / BEng (Hons) Aircraft Engineering teaches you knowledge and skills in aircraft design, manufacturing, aerodynamic and structural design, repair and overhaul.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/civil-engineering:
BEng (Hons)
4 years full-time, typically 6 years part-time.
Sandwich placement options possible.
H200
The BEng (Hons) Civil Engineering course covers broad-based civil engineering subjects to equip you with knowledge and skills to plan, design and implement major civil engineering projects.
There is a 36-week period of paid industrial training incorporated into this degree, which is obtained competitively.
If you are successful in completing this period of employment, you will graduate with a 'Sandwich' degree, which demonstrates to employers that you're ready to make an immediate contribution to their teams.
This thin sandwich placement is undertaken out-with term time/on a part-time basis, meaning it does not affect the duration of the degree.
The practical nature of the civil engineering course also means that you will visit construction sites and spend time doing practical field-work as part of the degree.
91% of Civil Engineering students were satisfied overall with the course (National Student Survey 2024).
This degree is accredited by the Joint Board of Moderators (JBM).
This comprises the Institution of Civil Engineers, Institution of Structural Engineers, Institute of Highway Engineers, the Chartered Institution of Highways and Transportation and the Permanent Way Institution on behalf of the Engineering Council for the purposes of partially meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered Engineer (CEng).
Candidates must hold a masters or doctorate accredited as further learning for CEng to hold accredited qualifications for CEng registration.
See www.jbm.org.uk for further information and details of further learning programmes for CEng.
There is a 36-week period of paid industrial training incorporated into the degree to develop your professional skills.
Students are responsible for applying for civil engineering jobs.
These are obtained competitively so they cannot be guaranteed, however we will assist you with the application process.
You will visit construction sites and spend time doing practical field-work, where you will study modern practices in sustainable construction including environmental awareness, health and safety, and construction technology.
As a UWS Civil Engineering graduate, you will have the skills to make useful contributions to any professional civil engineering & construction team from the moment you start your full-time career.
If you are successful in completing this period of employment, you will graduate with a 'Sandwich' degree, which demonstrates to employers that you are ready to make an immediate contribution to their teams.
This thin sandwich placement is undertaken out-with term time/on a part-time basis meaning it does not affect the duration of the degree.
You are responsible for applying for civil engineering jobs/placements yourself.
As these positions are competitive, they cannot be guaranteed.
However, we will assist you with this.
You will study modern practices in sustainable construction including environmental awareness, health and safety, and construction technology.
In addition, industry experts will share their expertise with guest lectures throughout the course.
Guest lectures further deepen your understanding and appreciation of real-world civil engineering practices.
Invited speakers from civil engineering consultancies, construction contractors and professional bodies also take the opportunity to talk to students about the role of civil engineering in society.
Katie Duff, BEng (Hons) Civil Engineering graduate
Major civil engineering and construction organisations actively seek university graduates, offering very competitive starting salaries and excellent career prospects.
On successful completion of your BEng (Hons) Civil Engineering degree, you may gain employment with a major contracting or consulting engineering company.
UWS graduates work with companies including Graham, Balfour Beatty, BAM Nuttall, Arup, Atkins, Amey, WSP, and Network Rail.
This course partially satisfying the educational base for a Chartered Engineer (CEng) with the relevant engineering bodies.
For a full list of accredited and approved further study options see the Joint Board of Moderators website.
Some graduates have progressed to doctoral research (PhD) programmes.
UWS Civil Engineering graduate, Katie Duff is used to working in all weather as she keeps an eye on the condition of the country’s railway bridges.
Her work as an engineer stretches back to her days as a student at UWS.
Katie spent her summer placement with Amey, a UK and international consulting and infrastructure support business, surveying railway bridges as part of a pilot project for Network Rail.
Katie actually received two job offers before graduating.
One came from Amey.
The other from AECOM, a US construction firm that had successfully pitched for the Network Rail infrastructure inspection and assessment project.
She chose AECOM.
Katie praised the practical nature of the UWS course and reckons practical modules like those on surveying, are particularly useful as it's something she does every day.
Advanced entry is possible to Years 2 and 3 of this course for suitably qualified applicants (see below).
In addition to the core programme content, industry experts share their expertise with guest lectures throughout the course.
You will commence your studies in Year 1 by establishing a solid engineering foundation.
In the first year of study, subjects include mathematics, engineering mechanics, applied engineering science, communication, drawing and computing skills and an introduction to the engineering industry.
In Year 2, the curriculum will cover topics such as sustainable construction, civil engineering materials, design of structural elements, mathematics for design, hydraulics and surveying.
Year 3 includes structural engineering, water resources engineering, construction technology, project management and soil mechanics.
Team building skills are developed via an interdisciplinary group design project (InterAct) module working with students from different universities in Glasgow.
The Honours year of the undergraduate degree includes structural engineering, ground and highway engineering, modern practices in construction, and advanced construction materials.
The final year also includes, a major individual project which allows you to investigate the civil engineering subject of your choice.
The teaching and assessment methods employed by staff in the delivery of the course portfolio covers a wide range of established and contemporary approaches.
The methods of assessment used include examinations, coursework, presentation, portfolio and case studies.
Much of this is left to the professionalism of the staff delivering the modules.
Lectures, tutorials and laboratory works form the basis for the majority of teaching and assessment within Civil Engineering.
Extensive use is also made of computer suites, seminars, field work, group work, independent learning and laboratory demonstrations.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/mechanical-engineering:
MEng (Hons) - 5 years full-time, BEng (Hons) - 4 years full-time, contact us for part-time study options.
MEng: H301 / BEng: H300
The MEng (Hons) / BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering degree focuses on industry-relevant topics to reflect the needs of today’s employers.
It gives you the opportunity to build a successful career in the design, engineering and manufacturing sectors.
You'll gain knowledge of scientific and engineering principles and take a flexible approach towards new ideas and developments.
You will hone your practical skills by using our industry-standard equipment and software for computer-aided engineering design , manufacture, analysis and failure investigations.
Increased emphasis is placed on sustainable engineering, establishing you as an attractive candidate to prospective employers.
BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering and MEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering are accredited by the Institution of Mechanical Engineers (IMechE) under licence from the UK regulator, the Engineering Council.
The accredited BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering meets, in part, the exemplifying academic benchmark requirements for registration as a Chartered Engineer and students will need to complete an approved format of further learning pursuant to the requirements of UK-SPEC.
The accredited BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering also automatically meets in full, the exemplifying academic benchmark requirements for registration as an Incorporated Engineer (IEng).
The accredited MEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering fully meets the exemplifying academic benchmark requirements, for registration as a Chartered Engineer (CEng).
Paid placement is possible at the end of Years 1, 2 and 3.
In recent years, students have undertaken placements with organisations such as Spirit AeroSystems, Doosan Babcock and Rolls Royce.
During Years 2 and 3, academic study may be supplemented by periods of paid work experience gained within industry.
To achieve the BEng Honours sandwich degree, students must gain a minimum of 36 weeks’ work experience.
Our courses are professionally accredited and designed to anticipate industry demand.
100% of Mechanical Engineering students agreed teaching staff are good at explaining things (National Student Survey 2024).
If you are initially registered and enrolled on the BEng (Hons) course and meet the performance requirements in Years 1, 2 and 3, you may be eligible to transfer onto the MEng (Hons) in Year 4.
1.
HNC title: Engineering Practice
Required subjects: Maths for Engineering 1
2.
HNC title: Mechanical Engineering
3.
HNC title: Mechanical & Manufacturing Engineering
Required subjects: Maths for Engineering 1, Engineering & Mathematics
4.
HNC title: Engineering Science
5.
HNC title: HND Electrical Engineering
The first two years of the MEng (Hons) / BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering will give you an overview of all the main branches of the subject.
In the third and fourth years, you will have the chance to study a selection of topics in more depth, with the option to tailor your programme of study to suit your own aptitudes and interests.
Representatives from the Institution of Mechanical Engineers (IMechE) and Babcock International have recently delivered lectures to students.
Engineering mechanics, materials and mathematics provide a foundation to engineering design.
Topics include strength of materials, thermofluid mechanics, materials and manufacturing technology.
The formal engineering design process and how it relates to engineering practice is introduced; as well as computer-aided technology, IT-related techniques and engineering management.
Thermodynamics, rapid prototyping and experimental testing techniques; intelligent systems and control technologies; and advanced computer-based analysis and simulation techniques are introduced, along with project management skills.
Applied mechanics in areas including plasticity, fracture and vibrations, build on previous studies.
Composite structures and renewable energy systems and sustainability are introduced.
Computer-aided engineering design is explored further and computational fluid dynamics introduced.
You will undertake a major individual project.
The fifth / MEng (Hons) year builds on the first four years and adds advanced fluid mechanics and CFD and advanced heat transfer topics as well as applied finite element analysis and structural integrity modules.
You will also undertake a major group project.
A variety of assessment approaches are utilised throughout the programme such as examination, written coursework, portfolio and presentations.
Find out more about the course by watching videos of some of our laboratories:
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING LABORATORY
ENGINEERING WORKSHOPS AND LABORATORY EQUIPMENT
Careers in the automotive, aerospace, offshore, energy, railways and shipbuilding sectors are possible for Mechanical Engineers in roles within stress, vibration, performance, service, design and development engineering and project management.
Graduates work for industry heavyweights including Inter-Tec Services, Volvo Construction, BB7, SSEN, Altrad and BAE Systems.
The 3rd Year entry MEng (Hons)/BEng (Hons) in Chemical Engineering combines academic study with practical experience to prepare you for a career in the chemical and process industries.
The BEng (Hons) Civil Engineering will enable you to design, construct and organise civil engineering projects.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/adult-nursing:
BSc
3 years full-time (4 years for honours pathway)
Health & Life Sciences
Ayr, Dumfries, Lanarkshire, Paisley
B745
Dumfries: September
The BSc Adult Nursing (with or without Honours) prepares graduates to begin the study of nursing as a discipline and, following completion to the threshold standard of ordinary degree, to meet the requirements for registration with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC).
An NMC accredited Honours pathway provides a competitive, optional additional year to progress to an Honours degree qualification.
This has been aligned with the four pillars of nursing: clinical practice, research, education and leadership.
This degree enables nurses to meet the requirements of a modern health care system, work in multi-professional teams and demonstrate leadership and management abilities.
Elizabeth studies on our BSc Adult Nursing programme at Paisley campus.
Work-based learning makes up 50% of the BSc Adult Nursing (with or without Honours) and you will spend time on placement, working the equivalent of full-time and a variety of shift patterns, with our NHS Health Board partners, or other health providers in their locali
*UWS students access placements in the Clyde sector of NHSGG&C
Study abroad is extremely beneficial to personal and professional development and research has shown that worldwide employers value graduates with intercultural awareness and global competences.
Opportunities for study abroad may be an option at different points in the programme and you will be notified if/when these are available.
(The Times Higher Education Impact Rankings 2024)
We welcome Scottish and UK students and consider all applicants on an individual basis.
Please visit our Undergraduate Entry Requirements page for information on our different entry requirements.
All applicants must satisfy the entry requirements of the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) including having the capability to meet the numeracy requirements of the programme and proficiency in English language and literacy ( NMC Future Nurse Standards 2023 ).
An offer to study is also dependent on the outcome of the selection process and background checks:
Access to the programme is dependent on Occupational Health, Protecting Vulnerable Group and Moving & Handling clearance.
Failure to attend an occupational health appointment and moving & handling training on two occasions, without prior notice, may result in you being required to pay an administration fee of £60 to cover the cost of non-attendance.
Not attending costs the University approximately £120 per appointment.
In addition, not completing the Protecting Vulnerable Group (PVG) application on two occasions may result in you being required to pay the cost to complete the application, you can find a note of the current cost at Disclosure Scotland
The Part 1 theory and practice modules, equate to 120 academic credits at SCQF Level 7.
This will include 560 hours in clinical practice.
You will complete five ‘on campus’ modules: Essentials of Adult Nursing, Biosciences for Health, Aspire: Foundations for Success, The Context of Modern Nursing and Values in Care.
In addition, you will complete two ‘in practice’ modules: Adult Nursing Practice 1a and Adult Nursing Practice 1b with Progression.
LEARNING AND TEACHING:
You will experience a blended approach to learning which will include theory (scheduled and independent study) and practice learning experiences.
ASSESSMENT:
On campus modules will be assessed using a variety of assessments methods.
In practice modules will be assessed by the nurses you are working with during your practice learning experiences.
The Part 2 theory and practice modules, equate to 120 academic credits at SCQF Level 8.
This will include 840 hours in clinical practice.
You will complete five ‘on campus’ modules: Promoting Health and Wellbeing, Biosciences for Nursing, Developing Professional Nursing, Diversity and Inclusion in Healthcare and Biosciences for Adult Nursing.
In addition, you will complete three ‘in practice’ modules: Adult Nursing Practice 2a, Adult Nursing Practice 2b and Adult Nursing Practice 2c with Progression.
The Part 3 theory and practice modules, equate to 120 academic credits at SCQF Level 9.
This will include 920 hours in clinical practice or 560 hours for students on the Honours pathway.
You will complete five ‘on campus’ modules: Leading Quality Care, Holistic Care in Adult Nursing, Enhancing Professional Nursing, Applying Evidence to Nursing Practice and Consolidating Adult Nursing Care.
In addition, you will complete three ‘in practice’ modules: Adult Nursing Practice 3a, Adult Nursing Practice 3b and Adult Nursing Practice 3c with Progression.
Students who have opted into the Honours pathway, will complete the same ‘on campus’ modules as detailed above.
They will also complete Adult Nursing Practice 3a.
Honours pathway students do not undertake Adult Nursing Practice 3b or Adult Nursing Practice 3c with Progression.
Instead, they will undertake the Adult Nursing Practice 3b (Honours) module, with their final ‘in practice’ module moving to 4th year.
The Part 4 theory and practice modules, equate to 120 academic credits at SCQF Level 10.
This will include 360 hours in clinical practice.
You will complete four ‘on campus’ modules.
This includes two core modules: The Honours Dissertation and Effective Teaching in Practice.
Students will also choose two of the following option modules: Recognising and Responding to Deterioration, Delivering Relational Care, Dementia Champions: Enhanced Care Delivery, Complex Care in Aging and Frailty or Mental Health in Adult Healthcare.
In addition, you will complete one ‘in practice’ module: Adult Nursing Practice Honours Progression.
You will be taught through a combination of lectures, tutorials, workshops and guided activity in our clinical skills laboratories.
This will be supported by materials hosted on our virtual learning environment.
Your time on campus is also designed to support your professional development as you work towards becoming a Registered Nurse.
Group work, role play, and presentations help you to develop the communication, teamworking and leadership skills needed for professional practice.
Our nursing degree uses a variety of assessment methods.
The below list provides a guide to the types of assessment methods you can expect:
The programme is designed with periods of time spent on campus, blocks of time spent in practice with annual leave, study leave/assessment weeks and catch-up time included.
Student nurses get 7 weeks of annual leave per year and should not plan to go on holiday out with these 7 weeks.
Part 1 (September 2025- August 2026) leave dates are confirmed as:
Part 2 (September 2025- August 2026) leave dates are confirmed as:
Upon completion you can register with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) as a Registered Nurse.
Most graduates use their registration to become Staff Nurse, School Nurse, Specialist Nurse / Nurse Practitioner or Health Visitors working in the community.
Some graduates move into wider fields of public health.
Job opportunities are excellent and graduates can expect a good starting salary and career prospects.
For students interested in working abroad this degree enables you to work in the rest of the EU, Canada and Australia
Some graduates choose further study, leading to postgraduate certificate or diploma or an MSc in a heathcare -related subject.
For more information on undertaking a career in Adult Nursing click here .
If you are ordinarily resident in Scotland, you may be eligible to receive £10,000 worth of funding in each of the first three years of your BSc programme, and £7,500 if you study an honours year, for tuition and living costs.
This funding is available through the Paramedic, Nursing and Midwifery student bursary scheme (PNMSB) which comes from the Scottish Government Health Directorate but is administered by the Student Awards Agency Scotland (SAAS).
You can find out more on the webpages below:
Charlie, Adult Nursing student

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/collaborative-health-and-social-care:
London, Paisley
L432
Paisley: September, January
London: September, January
The BSc (Hons) Collaborative Health & Social Care award provides flexible learning opportunities for those who aspire to or currently work within health and/or social care and are wishing to develop their career further.
Module options allow you to tailor your studies to your area of interest within the social services and health care sector.
This programme reflects the increasingly complex environment within health and social care and will allow you to explore the sector in response to changing demographics and the integration of services.
The curriculum also recognises the shift in services, from both a national and international perspective, and how they are moving towards prevention, person-centredness and the enablement and empowerment of individuals.
Central to the degree is valuing the role that all professional carers play in the delivery of services.
So, wherever your future destination within the exciting and evolving health and/or social care sector lies, you will develop the professional knowledge and confidence to enable you to confidently improve outcomes for a diverse range of service users.
NB: If English is not your first language, evidence of appropriate English language proficiency will be required as a programme entry requirement.
Please visit  our Undergraduate Entry Requirements page for information on our different entry requirements, including country-specific details for EU and non-EU qualifications.
This first year of study will set the context for the rest of your student journey by supporting you, through our first ASPIRE module, to develop a range academic, personal and professional skills and attributes.
You will be introduced to key health and social care such as collaborative working, evidence based practice, foundations in health and social care practice, communication skills and health promotion.
These will lead you towards the career in health and social care you aspire to do.
Through the second Aspire module this year of study will further develop your academic, personal and professional skills and attributes.
In addition, you will not only revisit in more depth some of the key health and social care topics from year one such as working collaborate with others, you will also gain further knowledge and skills in relation to research approaches, person-centred care, enabling and empowering service users, population and public health and the psychology of health and wellbeing.
In year three your final Aspire module will help you consolidate your academic, personal and professional development and lead you into career development in preparation for you becoming a graduate.
In this year of study you will be exposed to more complex issues related to key health and social topics you have already explored.
You will also have the opportunity in year three to take modules that focus on specific health and social care topics such and the integration of health and social care services, dementia care, palliative care, pain management and supporting people with long term conditions.
This will enable you to start focusing on a specific sector of health/social care you may be aspiring to work in.
Year four changes focus slightly in that as well learning about the complexities in working with services users and their families collaboratively it will develop you as a health and/or social care professional.
This will provide you will a range knowledge and skills to enable you to lead a team, teach others in your workplace and develop population/public health/quality improvement approaches.
Your studies will culminate in the development of an honours dissertation which will be in a health/social care subject of your choosing.
This capstone module helps lead you in employment in a specific area of health/social care that you aspire to work in as you will have a detailed and in-depth knowledge and understanding of this aspect of health/social care.
This programme utilises hybrid learning approach to teaching and learning.
This means you will be taught through a combination of online and on campus synchronous tutorials and workshops.
You will also take part in a range of asynchronous activities using our virtual learning platform.
In this programme you will have the opportunity to develop your knowledge and understanding of the key concepts of working as a professional in health and/or social care.
You will also gain transferable skills such as research, communication and working as part of a team.
This degree is assessed using a variety of assessment methods including:
This programme will lead you into a successful career in health and/or social care.
Below are some examples of where our previous graduates work from similar programmes.
In addition this course will lead you into higher level qualifications at UWS such as:
£11,750 per year of study
None (only if student does not internet ready device already)
Enhanced International Scholarships
All UK and EU applicants for undergraduate study , not applying through an agent or partner, should apply through UCAS (Universities and Colleges Admissions Service)
The on-time application deadline for 2025/26 entry is 29 January 2025 , 18:00 (UK time).
The final deadline for late applications via UCAS is 30 June 2025.
Beyond this deadline, you may be able to apply via ‘UCAS Clearing’ if the course you are interested in has remaining places.
Please refer to our Undergraduate Application Guide for domestic & EU/EEA to find more information on when and how to apply to study at UWS.
You can find out more about applying for this undergraduate course on UCAS.
Do you have a question about applying for this course?
Get in touch.
We are here to help!
SUBMIT AN ENQUIRY (LONDON CAMPUS)

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/mental-health-nursing:
B765
The BSc Mental Health Nursing (with or without Honours) prepares graduates to begin the study of nursing as a discipline and, following completion to the threshold standard of ordinary degree, to meet the requirements for registration with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC).
An NMC-accredited Honours pathway+ provides a competitive, optional additional year to progress to an Honours degree qualification.
+ the number of places available to undertake the Honours year are still to be confirmed.
If demand is greater than capacity, it may become a competitive process.
Work-based learning makes up 50% of the BSc Mental Health Nursing (with or without Honours) and you will spend time on placement, working the equivalent of full-time and
a variety of shift patterns, with our local NHS Health Board partners, or other private or third sector health providers in these localities:
You will complete five ‘on campus’ modules: Introduction to Mental Health, Biosciences for Health, Aspire: Foundations for Success, Essential Concepts in Mental Health and Values in Care.
In addition, you will complete two ‘in practice’ modules: Mental Health Nursing Practice 1a and Mental Health Nursing Practice 1b with Progression.
You will complete five ‘on campus’ modules: Collaborative Care in Mental Health, Biosciences for Nursing, Developing Professional Nursing, Realising Recovery in Mental Health and Biosciences for Mental Health Nursing.
In addition, you will complete three ‘in practice’ modules: Mental Health Nursing Practice 2a, Mental Health Nursing Practice 2b and Mental Health Nursing Practice 2c with Progression.
YEAR 3
You will complete five ‘on campus’ modules: Leading Quality Care, Holistic Care in Mental Health Nursing, Enhancing Professional Nursing, Applying Evidence to Nursing Practice and Consolidating Mental Health Nursing Care.
In addition, you will complete three ‘in practice’ modules: Mental Health Nursing Practice 3a, Mental Health Nursing Practice 3b and Mental Health Nursing Practice 3c with Progression.
They will also complete Mental Health Nursing Practice 3a.
Honours pathway students do not undertake Mental Health Nursing Practice 3b or Mental Health Nursing Practice 3c with Progression.
Instead, they will undertake the Mental Health Nursing Practice 3b (Honours) module, with their final ‘in practice’ module moving to 4th year.
Students will also choose two of the following option modules: Recognising and Responding to Deterioration, Delivering Relational Care, Dementia Champions: Enhanced Care Delivery, Complex Care in Aging and Frailty or Physical Issues in Mental Health Settings.
In addition, you will complete one ‘in practice’ module: Mental Health Nursing Practice Honours Progression.
This intellectually stimulating programme will prepare you for a successful career in a wide range of mental health settings, including:
UWS offers opportunities to develop further skills in mental health practice through its MSc Mental Health Practice and Cognitive Behavioural Therapy programmes, Forensic Mental Health, Leading People-centred Integrated Care, Dementia Care, Nursing, Advanced Clinical Practice, Drugs and Alcohol Studies and/or mental health research degrees.
For more information on undertaking a career in Mental Health Nursing click here.
Study abroad is extremely beneficial for personal and professional development and research has shown that worldwide employers value graduates with intercultural awareness and global competences.
The BSc Adult Nursing provides the knowledge, skills, practical experience and confidence to allow you to become a nursing professional.
The BSc (Hons) Nursing Studies allows you to develop your skills and prepare you for roles in modern healthcare environments.
The BSc Midwifery provides the knowledge, skills, practical experience and confidence to allow you to become a professional midwife.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/midwifery:
3 years full-time
B720
Prepare for a rewarding career as a professional midwife with UWS’s BSc Midwifery.
This degree will give you the knowledge, skills, practical experience and confidence to become a professional midwife.
As teaching on this degree is 50% work-based learning, you’ll be able to put the theory you learn in the classroom into practice in real-life clinical environments.
Our innovative and contemporary BSc Midwifery degree offers you the chance to be part of this dynamic workforce as an accountable and lead practitioner working with and supporting women throughout their pregnancy and childbirth experience.
Work-based learning makes up 50% of the BSc Midwifery and you will spend time on placement with our local healthcare partners:
On the BSc Midwifery programme we encourage our students to experience an elective placement of their choice.
We also have a partnership with Gothenburg University in Sweden where students can also undertake an elective.
Morgan Riley , BSc Midwifery graduate 2024
All applicants must satisfy the entry requirements of the Nursing and Midwifery Council including evidence of literacy and numeracy for entry to pre-registration nursing and midwifery programmes (NMC Circular 03/2008, revised 2010 Standards).
All applicants will need to demonstrate this with acceptable qualification awards in both English and Maths.
There is no Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) onto the BSc Midwifery.
Students must undertake all three years of the programme to gain entry onto the Nursing and Midwifery Council register as a Midwife.
The BSc Midwifery will prepare you for a professional career in midwifery.
Over three years you will develop knowledge, skills and practical experience to become a Registered Midwife with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) upon graduation.
It will also foster an interest in continuous professional development and the importance of keeping your knowledge and skills up-to-date and in line with current best practice.
In year 1 you will receive a broad introduction to midwifery, learn about health and public health concepts, parenthood issues and the role of the professional midwife.
You will develop knowledge and clinical practice through modules in life sciences, caring skills, professional skills and personal development.
You will also spend time on placement.
In year 2 you will study midwifery practice, and learn about the risk factors – medical, obstetric and social issues – associated with pregnancy.
You will also study critical care, and care of the newborn and spend time on placement.
In year 3 you will continue to develop your knowledge, decision-making and practical skills.
You will also develop and demonstrate the professional standards required for registration as a Registered Midwife .
Areas of study in year 3 includ e : preparation for registered practice, global midwifery and meeting family and lifestyle needs.
You will also select from optional modules.
As well as spending time on placement you will undertake an individual research project on a related topic of your choice.
You will be taught through a combination of lectures, tutorials, practical workshops and guided laboratory work.
There will also be group work, literature reports and research projects in order to ensure our degrees provide a strong set of additional skills, such as presentational and communicative skills.
Our Midwifery degree uses a variety of assessment methods.
This degree will prepare you for a successful career in Midwifery.
Most graduates use their registration to become professional midwives or to move into wider fields of public, sexual and family health.
Some graduates choose further study, leading to a postgraduate certificate, diploma or MSc in a healthcare-related subject.
Two new scholarships are available for application for eligible students on this programme.
The Men into Nursing Bursary will see one male nursing student being awarded £5,000 annually to support the student experience in the first the first two years of undergraduate study on our BSc Adult Nursing, BSc Mental Health Nursing or BSc Midwifery programmes.
The Myra McMurdo Nursing Bursary will see £750 being awarded to seven students, who have received a conditional place on our BSc Adult Nursing, BSc Mental Health Nursing or BSc Midwifery programmes.
These will be delivered on an annual basis and will support them through their nursing placements.
All applicants for undergraduate study should apply through UCAS (Universities and Colleges Admissions Service)
Apply on UCAS
Our friendly admissions teams are here to help!
International prospective students
Our international team is ready to support you with your application and any questions about joining UWS from abroad.
international@uws.ac.uk
UK based prospective students
If you’re applying from within the UK, our applicant enquiry team is here to guide you every step of the way.
ask@uws.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/paramedic-science:
B950
The BSc Paramedic Science will help you develop confidence, compassion and the skills required to deliver high-quality care for a challenging career in frontline emergency care as a paramedic.
On successfully completing this degree you’ll be eligible to apply for registration as a p aramedic with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC).
Please note that due to the special contractual arrangements between the University and NHS Education for Scotland (NES), we are only permitted to recruit Scottish applicants on the BSc Paramedic Science.
98% overall student satisfaction (National Student Survey 2024)
if your qualifications are not listed here, we take a range of factors into account when assessing your application and are happy to consider other alternative combinations of qualifications and experience.
If you are applying with an EU or non-EU qualification, please check our Undergraduate Entry Requirements page which gives more information about country-specific entry requirements.
International Baccalaureate (IB) Diploma: 27 points with 3 subjects at Higher level, including Biology
SQA HNC / BTEC Level 4 HNC: Health or Science related subject that includes Human Physiology/Biology
Entry to the course will be competitive and dependent on the outcome of the selection process and background checks:
Applicants who do not meet the standard entry requirements but hold relevant qualifications or work experience will be considered on an individual basis.
Alternative qualifications include:
You’ll undertake a wide variety of practice-based education experiences over the three years of this programme, which will be split between ambulance and non-ambulance placements across a range of placement areas.
While on practice-based learning, you will be working full-time and experience the 24/7 continuum of care supported by trained health care professionals.
This will allow you to get 'hands-on' practical experience of working with a range of different service users and health professionals as you progress from dependent to independent practice.
As the largest modern university in Scotland, The University of the West of Scotland (UWS) has extensive staff, physical resources and services required to deliver the Paramedic Science course.
The programme delivery team led by an HCPC registered Paramedic will include staff who are highly qualified academics registered with relevant professional bodies.
The School has a practice learning team who will work with the Scottish ambulance service practice education lead to co-ordinate and support placements.
The programme will be further supported through our partnership with NHS Education for Scotland, the Scottish Ambulance Service and NHS Health Boards.
The BSc Paramedic Science programme will incorporate a balance of theory and practice-based education learning hours, providing educational opportunities to support the development/demonstration and integration of knowledge, skills and clinical competency required for paramedic registration.
You will be taught through a combination of lectures, tutorials, practical workshops and guided clinical laboratory skills work.
Theory and skills will be developed and applied in ambulance and non-ambulance placements throughout the course developing your knowledge, skills and understanding required of a paramedic.
The course will use a variety of assessment methods.
The following is a guide to the types of assessment methods you can expect:
This programme will prepare you for a career as a paramedic that can progress to a wide variety of clinical roles in health and social care, service management or, education and research.
Further career options include working in p rimary or s econdary c are , e vents m edicine and providing medical cover for a range of industries such as the sports and entertainment sector, providing you meet the requirements of the employer and employment opportunities.
The programme provides a foundation for ongoing education and learning, with an option for further postgraduate study.
If you are ordinarily resident in Scotland, you may be eligible to receive £10,000 worth of funding in each of the three years of your BSc programme, for tuition and living costs.
The BSc Mental Health Nursing provides the knowledge, skills, practical experience and confidence to allow you to become a mental health nursing professional.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/law:
M101
The BA (Hons) Law covers a wide range of legal subjects, meaning you are skilled in advising organisations on how to comply with their legal obligations and prepares you for success in legal or law-related settings.
This degree will equip you with a solid understanding of how law shapes our society, enabling you to embark on a career in a wide variety of employment sectors.
You’ll also learn the knowledge and skills sought after by employers in law-related and business sectors.
Our teaching staff will also provide a supportive learning environment and a flexible approach to study, to help you develop in-depth knowledge of areas related to your future career.
On our course pages, you will find details of our entry criteria listed as Standard Entry Requirements and Minimum Entry Requirements .
These are the academic qualifications that, depending on your personal circumstances, you will be required to meet to allow your application to be considered for a place at UWS.
Competition for places on many of our courses can be very high and even if you meet the standard or minimum qualifications stated, there is no guarantee that your application will progress to the next stage of the admissions process.
We review individual applications very closely and place great importance on your personal statement and academic reference as well as your academic qualifications before making selection decisions.
Our Standard Entry Requirements are the grades that you will need to achieve to allow you to be considered for entry to a specific programme of study.
Our Minimum Entry Requirements are applicable to those applicants who have not had an equal opportunity to demonstrate their academic ability at school or college and are known as ‘widening access’ applicants.
We also sometimes refer to this type of applicant as receiving a ‘contextual’ offer.
We may be able to provide you with a contextual offer if you fall into one of the categories below:
If you fall into any of the first four categories above, please mention this on your UCAS application.
We will automatically apply category 5 if it applies to you.
If you have already achieved the required grades for either our standard or minimum entry criteria, we may be able to offer you an unconditional offer for some course areas.
If you have not yet achieved these grades, we may be able to make you a conditional offer, which will rely on you achieving further qualifications before you can be accepted on to a programme of study.
Further details of our Admissions processes can be found as follows:
The programme is delivered both full-time and part-time.
Full-time study lasts, normally, four years for the Honours title and three years for the Ordinary title.
Part-time study lasts for a maximum of six years.
However, part-time students can study between 30 and 119 credits per academic session thus shortening the length of time taken to obtain the qualification.
Full-time and part-time delivery will, on the whole, be during the day.
The delivery of the programme is designed in such a way as to maximise student participation and engagement with their learning.
Many modules are delivered by means of on-campus workshops and online supported learning.
The delivery of modules is tailored to the learning experience sought.
Students, in workshops, will be expected to prepare in advance, using online materials provided via the Virtual Learning Environment and then explore, through discussion and student led activities such as presentations, the wider context in which the law is situated.
In Year 1 (SCQF Level 7), students study five core modules which provide a strong foundation in the key principles of Scots Law.
Students will study subjects such as Introduction to Legal Study, Public Law, Criminal Law, Scots Private Law 1: Contract Law, and Scots Private Law 2: Delict alongside modules designed to support their learning at University, in particular support their development as Law students.
These modules assist in the development of core skills and competencies required to progress the student’s legal study and include Legal Advocacy Skills 1 and Contemporary Legal Issues 1.
They provide students with the opportunity to reflect on their own personal learning, and professional skills and, where appropriate, aid the identification of strategies to further develop the student’s personal learning and professional needs.
Year 2 (SCQF Level 8) builds upon the foundation skills and knowledge developed in Year 1 and introduces students to further in-depth study of key legal subjects.
The core modules in Year 2 comprise 20 credit modules in areas of law identified as essential to ensure that students have a broad understanding of all of the main legal subjects.
Students will study Law of Scots Private Law 3: Property, Scots Private Law 4: Family, Scots Private Law 4: Succession and Trusts and Company Law.
There will be a range of optional modules to study such as Agency and Partnership Law, Consumers and the Law, Welfare Rights and Legal Advocacy Skills 2 as well as some modules from the wider School of Business and Creative Industries.
Year 3 (SCQF Level 9) introduces the student to more critical approaches to law.
The purpose of this year of study is to enable students to develop skills in critical analysis through studying two core modules namely International Human Rights Law and Legal Research Methods.
Year 3 provides much of the international comparisons within the programme and, where appropriate, students will study Scots law in the context of other global jurisdictions.
Year 3 also allows the student to partake in more independent learning through work-based learning and through the Contemporary Legal Issues 3 module.
In Year 3, students may have the opportunity to study abroad for up to one year.
Year 4 (SCQF Level 10) is taught almost entirely in the form of seminars and it is at this level that students will be expected to apply all of the skills developed in previous years of study to critique the law.
Students complete a traditional Honours dissertation on a legal topic of their choice supervised by a member of staff.
The Honours Dissertation (Law) module spans terms 1 and 2 and is worth 40 credits.
Students then select an additional 80 credits of optional modules, 60 of which must be law modules.
Our Law degree is assessed using a variety of methods including:
UWS Law graduates are equipped for careers within and out-with the legal sector.
Graduates will also be well positioned to compete for places on graduate training schemes.
* Please note, the BA Law Degree is not a direct path to practicing as a solicitor in Scotland.
In order to practice as a Scottish solicitor, students would need to undertake further study, being the LLB Degree.
Many BA Law students do go on to undertake this further Degree which is not currently on offer at UWS.
Graduates may seek to undertake further specialist postgraduate research in areas such as law or business, for example a Master of Business Administration (MBA).
Some graduates may choose to continue their legal studies leading to an LLB or LLM (the former is the degree required to practice as a Scottish solicitor).

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/scots-law:
LLB (Hons)
Four years (Full Time); up to six years (Part Time)
M102
Paisley: September 2025
The Bachelor of Laws (LLB) degree is designed to provide you with a comprehensive understanding of the Scottish legal system, associated practices and principles, and is fully accredited by the Law Society of Scotland.
In addition to the programme being designed in accordance with the core LLB modules, you will benefit from UWS expertise in specialist areas of Law such as International Humanitarian Law in Practice, International Criminal Law, Public International Law, and Tribunal Skills.
The UWS programme offers a comprehensive foundation for a diverse range of legal careers in Scotland.
Graduates are well-prepared to pursue roles as solicitors, advocates, legal advisors, policy analysts, amongst many more.
The curriculum is designed to equip students with practical, transferrable skills that are highly valued by employers, including legal research, critical analysis, and effective communication.
Graduates can go on to explore opportunities in a diverse range of sectors and industries; from legal, banking and finance, to education, accounting, and management consulting.
Students will study the compulsory subjects in public and private law including modules such as:
In addition to the core LLB modules, the UWS specific modules on offer provide a broad contextual understanding of Law as a subject.
For example:
In addition to a more specialised in-depth understanding of areas of Law such as:
In Year 1 (SCQF Level 7), students study 5 core modules, which provide a strong foundation in key principles of Scots Law and one optional module.
Term 1 has 3 core modules: two ‘foundations of’ modules and Constitutional Law.
This first term provides a broad understanding of Law as a social concept and introduces students to legal skills techniques.
The two Foundations of modules are Foundations of Law and Foundations of Rights.
These two modules alongside Constitutional Law will give students a solid grounding in the skills and knowledge they require to learn specific legal subjects in Term 2 and in subsequent years of study.
The two core Term 2 modules in Year 1 are Scots Criminal Law and Voluntary Obligations.
The Scots Criminal Law module will give students a foundation of criminal liability and defences.
They will build on this in subsequent years when they study aspects of Corporate Crime and where they will study International Law, in particular Public International Law and International Humanitarian Law, where they will look at War Crimes and Genocide.
The Voluntary Obligations module provides a contemporary understanding of the law of contract in Scotland.
It will look at:
Year 2 (SCQF Level 8) builds upon the foundation skills and knowledge developed at Level 7.
It will focus on most of the Outcome modules required by the Law Society of Scotland, such as:
There are additional options, such as Roman Law, in this case to facilitate admission to the faculty of advocates later in the graduate’s career, should they so wish.
Students can also opt to take Legal Advocacy Skills 2 to further improve their oral advocacy skills, through modes of both content delivery and assessment and Contemporary Issues in Law 2 to build on their work from Year 1, should they wish to deepen their knowledge in the same area or to undertake a new area of personal study.
In Year 3 (SCQF Level 9), students will be encouraged to deepen their engagement with the Law and to further develop their academic skills.
One of the core modules to be taken by all students is Legal Research Methods.
It builds on written assessment skills the students will have already been developing and hones these with a view to focused preparation towards the Honours Dissertation in Year 4 of the programme.
Students will also undertake mandatory modules in EU Law, Evidence, and Commercial Law.
A variety of elective subjects, covering broader, more discursive legal topics, will be offered, such as:
In addition to innovative, real-world delivery and assessment techniques across the Year 3 programme, an elective Tribunal Skills module will be offered.
It continues the tradition of developing high-quality oral presentation and advocacy skills.
Students will be encouraged and empowered to work on an increasingly self-directed basis, in preparation for Year 4, and for the workplace.
In Year 4 (SCQF Level 10), the primary focus is the Honours dissertation.
Students will be supported by a supervisor, allocated on the basis of subject matter expertise and design.
They will carry out their own research project, working largely independently on this for the entirety of the academic year.
This will be supplemented with a selection of elective modules on advanced topics and in-depth issues, enabling students to fully specialise in their Honours year.
Students will become confident, independent earners, capable of undertaking large, complex pieces of work and ensuring their ability to enter a competitive and ever-changing workplace.
Core LLB modules are assessed by means of formal in-person exams and coursework.
In Year 1, 70% of each core module is assessed by exam and 30% by means of continuous assessment.
In Year 2, the split is 60% exam, 40% continuous assessment.
In Year 3, it's 50% exam, 50% continuous assessment.
For Honours year, most modules are continuously assessed.
This reflects the developing skills and understanding of students, and the teaching and learning approaches underpinning the programme.
The optional modules are assessed mostly by continuous assessment.
These include: presentations, essays, reports, reflective analysis, oral vivas, and moots.
Students are supported in their learning by means of a ‘scaffolding approach’.
In Year 1, there is a high level of class time, which reduces to Honours year where students are able and confident to work more independently with supervision.
They are also in a position to actively contribute to learning sessions.
Lectures will be common in Year 1 and Year 2.
By Year 3 and Year 4, the teaching and learning approach is such that students will be actively engaged in determining the content of learning sessions through participation in discussion-based seminars and workshops.
£8,500 cost per year of study
£9,535 per year of study

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/animal-care-and-zoology:
4 years full-time 5 years full-time (sandwich) 8 years part-time
CC94
Lanarkshire Campus: September 2025
Get ready to pursue a career in the animal care and welfare or zoological sciences with UWS’s BSc (Hons) Animal Care and Zoology degree.
This degree will give you a grounding in the biological sciences before progressing to more advanced topics in the animal care and zoological fields.
You will also develop the skills and knowledge to run a business in the animal care sector.
There is a focus on practical work using modern techniques, fostering transferable skills and developing research and problem-solving abilities.
Our team of experts will prepare you for a rewarding career in a broad range of biological, animal care and zoological sciences.
By undertaking the BSc (Hons) Animal Care and Zoology degree you will develop skills enabling a rewarding career working with animals both within Scotland or overseas.
Graduates can find roles in veterinary clinics, animal welfare organisations, zoos, wildlife conservation projects, environmental consultancies, research and also in animal-related businesses such as pet services or agriculture.
Progression into taught or research-focussed postgraduate study is also possible, including MSc, MRes and PhD degrees.
Work-based learning is incorporated into the degree in a third-year module and an optional year-long sandwich placement.
This opportunity can help to provide relevant skills and experience that will boost your employment prospects upon graduation.
Direct entry into Year 2 and 3 is possible.
The programme reflects a modular structure, providing a credit total of 120 credits at SCQF Levels 7-10, and is delivered on a full-time or part-time basis.
Modules focus on foundational biology relevant to life on earth, knowledge underpinning the care and welfare of animals, advanced zoological topics, business creation and developing academic study skills and confidence.
Most of the modules are shared across academic provision within the School of Health and Life Sciences, supplemented by modules in the School of Business and Creative Industries, reflecting an interdisciplinary/multi-professional ethos to learning and teaching.
A general introduction to various biological disciplines, from cell and molecular aspects to ecological and environmental topics.
You will be introduced to the role of an animal care professional and research animal-specific topics.
Additionally, you will receive an introduction to the University’s Virtual Learning Environment.
Studies focus on more specialised areas of animal science and zoology including animal nutrition and behaviour and vertebrate physiology, as well as business creation.
You will deepen your knowledge of animal care and zoology with core modules in animal husbandry, practical animal care, conservation and wildlife biology, in addition to a module on running a business.
You can also choose to take part in a work-related learning module in a relevant area of interest.
You will also complete practical training with an industry partner and a residential field trip.
You will study specialist animal care and zoology areas such as animal health and zoonosis, animal welfare and legislation and behavioural ecology.
A critical part of the Year 4 curriculum is a supervised project where you participate in research in a subject area of your choice.
You will be taught through a combination of lectures, laboratories, tutorials and workshops.
Most modules on the programme will be offered using an on-campus mode of delivery through face-to-face teaching on Lanarkshire campus.
Timetables for campus teaching and learning activities shall be prepared in advance and made available to students during the Induction phase.
Library resources are available for a range of current life science programmes and shall be enhanced to encompass relevant contemporary resources for this new programme.
The programme and modules shall each have a designated space on the UWS virtual learning environment.
Wider university services will also be available and information about these will be embedded into induction and programme learning material.
These include student support, school librarian, academic skills advisors, and disability services.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/applied-bioscience:
4 years full-time, 5 years full-time (sandwich)
C710
Get ready to pursue a career in the biological sciences with UWS’s BSc (Hons) Applied Bioscience programme.
You'll receive hands-on training in a wide range of biology disciplines to establish your knowledge before progressing to study more advanced and research-linked topics.
Work-related learning combined with access to UWS’s state of the art laboratories will prepare you for a wide range of career options.
Large amounts of practical work, experience with modern techniques and developing research skills are key strengths of the programme as is the option to undertake a work placement in year 3.
Employers regularly comment that our graduates have the necessary skills to contribute effectively and productively in the workplace.
Joshua, BSc (Hons) Applied Bioscience at UWS
98% of Applied Bioscience students were satisfied with the teaching on the course (National Student Survey 2024).
This degree has been accredited by the Royal Society of Biology (RSB) following an independent and rigorous assessment.
Accredited degrees contain a solid academic foundation in biological knowledge and key skills, and prepare graduates to address the needs of employers.
The accreditation criteria require evidence that graduates from accredited degrees meet defined sets of learning outcomes, including subject knowledge, technical ability and transferable skills.
This course meets, in part, the academic and experience requirement for the Membership of the RSB and Chartered Biologist (CBiol) status.
The Royal Society of Biology is the leading professional body for the biological sciences in the United Kingdom.
The Society represents over 18,000 biologists from all areas of the life sciences, as well as over 100 organisations which make up the diverse landscape of biology in the UK and overseas.
The Royal Society of Biology offers members unique opportunities to engage with the life sciences and share their passion for biology.
Work-related learning is available on this programme, including an optional 12-week placement or one-year sandwich placement.
Students have undertaken placements with organisations such as Queen Elizabeth University Hospital Glasgow; Devro and Controlled Therapeutics (Scotland) Ltd.
Direct entry into year 2 and 3 is possible.
You will be introduced to the role of a bioscientist and research specific careers and projects.
Studies focus on more specialised areas of bioscience including cell biology, cell culture, pharmacology, biochemistry, microbiology and genetics.
Options to concentrate your studies on include more advanced modules in biochemistry, human physiology, immunology, microbiology, molecular biology (protein structure and function, and DNA technology), pharmacology or related specialist disciplines including parasitology.
Case study and work-related learning is possible and a valuable option is a 12-week (or shorter) work placement.
The work placement takes into account your interests and is normally in a bioscience laboratory in a biotechnology, pharmaceutical or analytical company, or in a hospital laboratory.
The placement enhances your employability and is preparation for your Year 4 project.
You will develop and refine your previous studies and a supervised project allows you to conduct research in a subject area of your choice.
Xhordi Leshi, BSc (Hons) Applied Bioscience graduate
UWS Bioscience graduates are well qualified to enter a wide range of professions, providing you meet the requirements of the employer and employment opportunities, including:
MSc or PhD options are also available for graduates.
This qualification is acceptable to all Schools of Education as an entry qualification to the Postgraduate Diploma in Education for Biology and General Science teaching.
The BSc (Hons) Applied Bioscience with Forensic Investigation  equips you with the skills to pursue a career within the biosciences industry.
The BSc (Hons) Applied Bioscience & Zoology equips you with the skills to pursue a career within the zoological sciences.
The BSc (Hons) Biomedical Science / Applied Biomedical Science has been developed in partnership with the National Health Service.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/applied-bioscience-with-forensic-investigation:
C7F4
Get ready to pursue a career in the biological or forensic sciences with UWS’s BSc Applied Bioscience with Forensic Investigation.
This degree will equip you with the forensic analysis skills to assess crime scenes and analyse biological and chemical evidence .
It will also develop your complex problem solving skills.
Large amounts of practical work, experience with modern techniques and developing research and problem-solving skills are key strengths of the programme as is the option to undertake a work placement in year 3.
It is focussed on producing well-qualified, highly skilled graduates who meet the demands of the UK and international biotechnology, food, pharmaceutical, life sciences and forensic sectors.
98% student satisfaction with teaching on Biosciences programmes (National Student Survey 2024)
Franklin Babu , BSc (Hons) Applied Bioscience with Forensic Investigation graduate (NUS International Student of the Year Runner-up 2017)
You’ll be given the option to undertake a 12-week placement during Year 3 of this programme, allowing you to apply the skills, techniques and knowledge you’ve gained to real-world settings.
You will be introduced to the role of a forensic scientist and research specific cases.
All first-year students are given an introduction to the UWS Virtual Learning Environment.
Studies include how to identify, collect and analyse biological trace evidence from a crime scene.
You will acquire expertise in the use and application of microscopy in a forensic investigation.
Subjects including molecular genetics, biochemistry, pharmacology and microbiology will be introduced.
You will study DNA and controlled substances and will apply your knowledge to investigate a crime scene scenario.
You may have some choice in which bioscience to focus on e.g.
microbiology, immunology or biochemistry.
A valuable career enhancing 12-week work placement is possible in a research, hospital or company laboratory.
You will study forensic specialist subjects taking you from the crime scene to the courtroom while gaining in-depth knowledge of your chosen biological subjects and their applications.
Graduates enjoy careers in healthcare, pharmaceutical, biotechnology and environmental management industries, where roles include microbiologists, molecular scientists and analytical chemists.
Postgraduate opportunities in research, teaching or other full-time courses may be available.
Some graduates choose further study including MSc Advanced Biomedical Science or MSc Biotechnology.
Options to study biosciences at PhD level are also available.
Further information for international, part-time and exchange applications can be found below
The BSc (Hons) Applied Bioscience equips you with the skills to pursue a career within the biosciences sector.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/applied-bioscience-zoology:
CC93
Get ready to pursue a career in the zoological sciences with UWS’s BSc (Hons) Applied Bioscience & Zoology degree.
You’ll receive a grounding in biological and zoological science before progressing to study more advanced zoological topics.
The programme will equip you with the practical and transferable skills for a rewarding career in biological and zoological sciences in Scotland or abroad.
Our highly qualified and experienced team will deepen your understanding of bioscience and zoology, and the range of career options and professional accreditations available to you upon graduation.
Watch a programme video to find out more
In year three you will have the opportunity to take part in a relevant work-based learning module.
Work-based learning is available as part of this course and can help to provide relevant skills and experience that will boost your employment prospects upon graduation.
Recent student placements include Blair Drummond Safari Park, Amazonia and with the Scottish Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (Scottish SPCA) and the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds (RSPB).
Guardian University Guide 2024
You will be introduced to the role of a zoologist and research specific zoology topics.
* for more information on standard and minimum entry requirements, see our Undergraduate Entry Requirements webpage
Studies focus on more specialised areas of bioscience and zoology including animal behaviour, humankind and the biosphere, and vertebrate physiology.
You will deepen your knowledge of zoology with core modules in entomology, parasitology, animal diversity, conservation and wildlife biology.
You will also complete a one-week residential marine biology field trip.
You will study specialist zoology areas such as aquatic ecology, behavioural ecology and pest management.
Adam Underwood.
BSc (Hons) Applied Bioscience & Zoology graduate, now a zookeeper in Victoria, Australia
This programme will prepare you for a successful career in zoological or biological sciences .
Employment is diverse and could include careers such as:
Some graduates pursue further study, including UWS’s MSc Advanced Biomedical Science or MSc Biotechnology programmes .

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/biomedical-science-applied-biomedical-science:
B940
UWS’s BSc (Hons) Biomedical Science and BSc (Hons) Applied Biomedical Science degrees equip you with the skills and experience needed to play a vital role in modern healthcare provision.
These two degrees have been developed to provide a pathway to help you become a professional biomedical scientist.
Biomedical scientists play an essential role in the identification of diseases and improving the provision of healthcare.
You’ll receive a grounding in biology, chemistry and data analysis before progressing to study advanced aspects of biomedical science.
Key strengths of our programmes are the development of practical laboratory and research skills.
While both degrees are accredited by the Institute of Biomedical Science (IBMS), (essential if you want to work in the NHS), the Applied route is also approved by the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC).
The Applied route includes an integrated 15-week placement in one of our partner hospital NHS laboratories and is particularly relevant if you want become a Biomedical Scientist in the NHS.
Due to a limited number of NHS placements, entry to the Applied route is via a competitive selection process after completion of Year 2 of the Biomedical Science programme.
Tim Bandel , 4 th year BSc (Hons) Biomedical Science international student
90% of students agreed staff are good at explaining things (National Student Survey 2024)
Entry to the BSc (Hons) Applied Biomedical Science programme is through a competitive selection process.
which starts at the beginning of Year 2 of the Biomedical Science programme.
Direct applications to the Applied programme cannot be made.
As part of this programme, students undertake a clinical placement in an NHS laboratory in Third Year.
This is compulsory for the award of BSc (Hons) Applied Biomedical Science.
Direct entry into year 2 and 3 is possible for the Biomedical Science Programme.
Non-EEA students are ineligible to participate in the clinical work placement element of this course.
In Year 1 you’ll complete modules in the fundamentals and diversity of life, chemistry and you will learn how to critically evaluate scientific data and information.
In Year 2 you’ll be introduced to clinical biochemistry, haematology, microbiology, human and cellular biology and genetics.
In Year 3 you’ll complete modules in cellular and molecular pathology, blood sciences, infection and immunity.
In term 2 of year 3, modules are dependent upon which programme you are studying and whether you undertake a work placement.
Teaching includes expert tuition from NHS staff.
Award of the Applied Biomedical Science degree is dependent upon successful completion of a 15 week work placement in an approved clinical laboratory in Year 3 of study.
Please note these placements are competitive and dependent upon availability.
LEARNING AND TEACHING: Biomedical Science:
Applied Biomedical Science:
ASSESSMENT: Biomedical Science:
In Year 4 you will study specialist aspects of biomedical science at an advanced level.
You will also complete a research dissertation in a topic of your choice.
UWS graduates are well qualified to enter a range of related medical professions, providing you meet the requirements of the employer and employment opportunities, including:
Graduates can continue their studies to MSc and PhD level with some undertaking further study in related disciplines including pharmacy, medicine and dentistry.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/environmental-science-and-sustainability:
B913
Our BSc (Hons) Environmental Science and Sustainability will prepare you for a career where you will address some of the most challenging and important issues of our time in terms of sustainable development, particularly with respect to the protection of the environment.
Environmental Scientists must overcome these challenges through creative, innovative and more sustainable solutions to local and global challenges.
Through your studies, you will receive a solid grounding in core scientific disciplines biological and chemical and earth system to build your knowledge and understanding of fundamental environmental systems, principles of sustainability and the role of policy and regulation.
You will gain a deep understanding of the environmental challenges facing the world today, and be able to identify potential threats to our  environment.
You will also study more specialised and advanced topics, focused on applied environmental governance and sustainability.
This degree will allow you to contribute to the process of advancing knowledge and strategies for a sustainable future.
At UWS our vision is to become a sustainable, forward-thinking institution, we are committed to becoming a global leader in climate change and environmental resilience and world-leading research with the UN SDGs.
This programme addresses SDG 13: climate change .
Hear from our Programme Leader and discover how BSc (Hons) Environmental Science and Sustainability will prepare you for a career addressing some of the most challenging and important sustainable development issues of our time.
Kiri Rodgers, Programme Leader, BSc (Hons) Environmental Science and Sustainability
Our global population is growing at an alarming rate, with the United Nations suggesting an excess of 9 billion people by 2050.
This dramatic growth requires increased industrial activity relying on unsustainable systems of production and consumption, resulting in considerable environmental damage.
To reduce the impact of human activity on the environment, we need more sustainable approaches to all aspects of life creating globally relevant policies and regulations through science-based evidence.
The combined impacts of climate change, biodiversity loss and unsustainable resource management has critical implications for the future stability of life support systems on our planet.
Do you want to be part of the solution?
If so, then our BSc (Hons) Environmental Science and Sustainability is for you.
SQA Advanced Highers: BBC (136 Tariff points) Chemistry, Biology, Human Biology, Environmental Science, Geography or Physics at least at Standard Grade/Nat 5/Int2
A-Levels: BBC (112 UCAS Tariff points) including Biology, Chemistry, Human Biology, Environmental Science, Geography or Physics
International Baccalaureate (IB) Diploma: 30 points (136 UCAS Tariff points) including Chemistry, Biology, Human Biology, Environmental Science or Physics at Higher Level, and another at OL
SQA HNC: Applied Science; Biomedical Science/Applied Biomedical Science; Industrial Biotechnology; Geography; Environmental Science; Food Science
Subjects covered include laboratory based biological and chemical analysis, statistical methods, geographical information systems (GIS), legislative frameworks, earth systems, health and safety, ecology and microbiology, field skills.
These concepts will be explored through fieldwork and practical exercises analysis.
Work-related learning is available on this programme, including an optional 12-week placement.
A general introduction to biological and chemical disciplines from cell and molecular aspects to ecological and environmental topics.
You will be introduced to the role of an environmental scientist and research specific careers and projects.
Modules includes:
In this year we start to look at Fundamentals of Environmental Science and Earth system to provide students with the core knowledge to develop in this field.
Students are also offered an array of optional modules in which they can focus their environmental interests on:
In this year we start to explore the interdisciplinary nature of environmental sciences including developing an awareness of the political and social implications.
Optional modules include:
In the final year, students refine their subject areas of choice as well as developing.
an over-arching understanding of key aspects required in Environmental Science and Sustainability, with core modules:
You will be taught through a combination of lectures, tutorials, practical workshops and field exercises, and guided laboratory work.
There will also be group work, literature reports and research projects in order to ensure our degrees provide a strong set of additional skills, such as presentation and communication skills.
Across our programmes we use a variety of assessment methods.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/chemistry:
F100
The BSc (Hons) Chemistry provides you with the fundamental knowledge and practical skills you need for a career in the dynamic fields of drug research, environmental analysis and forensic science.
With an emphasis on strong academic content and theoretical underpinnings, practical experience and modern chemical instrumentation, this degree focuses on analytical chemistry and health-related fields.
Our course includes practical aspects to develop your analytical, problem-solving and numeracy skills.
Small-group workshops, tutorials and presentations will improve your communication and presentation skills, making you attractive for a successful career in chemical sciences.
There is the option to undertake a paid 12 month industrial placement between Years 3 and 4.
Our course is accredited by the Royal Society of Chemistry (RSC).
The RSC is the UK’s professional body for chemical scientists with a worldwide community.
The BSc will prepare for Associate Membership (AMRSC) and will help you as you build your professional experience.
CHEMISTRY PROGRAMME LEADER
UWS provides access to high-quality laboratory environments and with links to active research groups, the range of subjects and practical opportunities available on this programme are based on real-life examples from industry to prepare you for the workplace.
UWS’s BSc (Hons) Chemistry is recognised by employers for its impressive analytical and applications focus.
Many of our graduates move into careers in the oil, chemical or pharmaceutical industries, in production, sales and marketing or research and development roles.
Graduates from this degree have gone on to secure the following roles: Process chemist, Laboratory supervisor, Medicinal chemist.
Chemistry graduates are also sought by non-scientific employers such as stockbrokers thanks to their numerical and problem-solving skills.
Many of our graduates have gone on to roles such as: Operations Manager, HR Consultant, Trainee Manager, Investment Banker, Sales Manager, Analyst and Graduate Teaching Assistant.
Some graduates choose further study, leading to an MSc, PhD or teaching qualifications.
After completing his BSc (Hons) Chemistry, Andrew Fraser undertook his research degree at University of St.
Andrews.
He now works in medicinal chemistry, researching cures for neglected diseases.
He’s worked on African sleeping sickness and leishmaniasis, among others.
After completing his PhD, Andrew took up his new role with LGC-Link manufacturing reagents for DNA synthesis.
Andrew chose to study his BSc (Hons) Chemistry at UWS because of its flexibility.
He has Crohn’s disease, and UWS was the only place in Scotland where he could study BSc (Hons) Chemistry on a part-time basis.
Once he was sure his health could handle the workload, he switched to full-time study, and focused in on medicinal chemistry.
Andrew did not expect to do a PhD – then his supervisor recommended he apply.
It was exactly the career-forming guidance he needed, says Andrew.
Our teaching in the first two years aims to give a balanced treatment of all the main branches of the subject.
In the third and fourth years, we develop a selection of topics in more depth.
We offer options that enable students to tailor their programmes to suit their own aptitudes and interests.
Science courses at UWS have been developed in collaboration with industrial, professional and educational partners.
Underpinned by research that is internationally leading, our degrees enable students to make a real-world impact.
Our modern labs and workshops are fitted with state-of-the-art equipment, allowing for research in physics, forensic science, analytical chemistry and biotechnology.
Students also have access to work-based learning opportunities with industry partners including GlaxoSmithKline.
Our students graduate ready for a successful career or further study in their chosen scientific field.
92% of Chemistry students agreed teaching staff are good at explaining things (National Student Survey 2024) .
During Year 1, you will cover general aspects of chemistry including organic, inorganic and physical chemistry along with two other science subjects.
Laboratory sessions develop practical and communication skills.
You will study a range of core  modules which include the following: Structure of Chemistry, Chemistry and Reactions, Scientific Investigation, and ASPIRE.*
For more information on standard and minimum entry requirements, see our Undergraduate Entry Requirements webpage.
*ASPIRE is a set of core modules which aim to enhance the academic, personal and professional development of students at UWS.
In Year 2, the core chemistry modules are designed to extend your knowledge of the traditional subject areas of inorganic, organic, physical, and analytical chemistry.
It also introduces aspects of applied chemistry, spectroscopy and theoretical chemistry.
Each of the modules contain both practical and coursework components allowing students to develop, practice and demonstrate a wide range of professional skills.
The core modules include the following: Physical Chemistry
You will study chemistry modules that provide a foundation for the remaining honours year, as well as dealing with applied chemistry issues, the modules you will study include the following: Inorganic Chemistry, Analytical Chemistry, Physical Chemistry, Organic Chemistry, Designer Drugs, Safety, Health & Environmental Protection.
The Honours sandwich course offers a year’s paid work experience between years 3 and 4 within an environment relevant to your specialism.
Students have undertaken placement/work-based learning with organisation such as Ferring Pharmaceuticals, Doosan Babcock and Taytech Environmental Solutions.
In the Honours you will study advanced topics in chemistry including aspects of synthetic methods, medicinal chemistry, colloids, catalysis, quantum mechanics, spectroscopy and main group, and transition metal chemistry.
In your final year you will undertake a research project at the frontiers of the subject, this project forms a substantial part of your studies.
During the final year you will study the following modules: Research Project, Advanced Analytical Techniques, Organic Chemistry, Physical and Inorganic Chemistry 4.
Our Chemistry degrees use a variety of assessment methods.
Nicole, Chemistry student
The BSc (Hons) Forensic Science combines academic study with practical experience to give you the knowledge and skills for a career in this field.
The BSc (Hons) Physics with Education prepares you for a rewarding career as a secondary school Physics teacher.
The BSc (Hons) Mathematics with Education will develop individuals with the knowledge and skills required to teach Mathematics at secondary school level.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/chemistry-with-education:
CE10
Ayr (Educ modules) & Paisley (Chem modules): September
The BSc (Hons) Chemistry with Education will provide you with both the extensive theoretical knowledge and practical skills in chemistry, and professional skills through work-based learning, to ensure you are fully equipped to meet the demands of being a Chemistry teacher in secondary (high) school.
The overall aim of the course is to allow you to develop the knowledge and skills required to teach Chemistry at Secondary School level.
You will study Chemistry to Honours level, and will also develop your teaching skills in Years 3 and 4 by taking modules in Education.
On successful completion of the course you will have met the Standard for Provisional Registration.
You'll be eligible to apply for provisional registration with the General Teaching Council for Scotland (GTCS) and entry to the Teacher Induction Scheme in Scotland as a secondary school teacher of Chemistry with Science.
Your depth of knowledge across a broad range of topics will support the teaching of senior phase courses up to SQA Advanced Higher (or GCSE A-level) level.
Upon completion of the BSc (Hons) Chemistry with Education programme, you will leave UWS with GTCS registration and are eligible for a one-year paid induction post in a Scottish Secondary School.
With the country facing a shortage of Chemistry teachers, you’ll have a range of exciting opportunities in the Education sector.
As a Chemistry graduate you will also have the knowledge and practical skills required for a career in drug research, environmental analysis, and forensic science.
UWS has been delivering applied science education for more than 100 years.
Nowadays, our science courses at UWS have been developed in collaboration with industrial, professional and educational partners.
Underpinned by research that is internationally leading, our science degrees enable our students to make an immediate, real-world impact.
Our science students graduate ready to embark upon a successful career or further study in their chosen scientific field.
CHEMISTRY WITH Education ACADEMIC
Applicants are strongly advised to visit the Teaching in Scotland website for full information on what is required to become a teacher in Scotland.
All applicants should be aware that before progressing to Year 3, students must meet the following requirements:
If you meet the above conditions and are offered the opportunity to progress to Year 3 of this degree, you must apply for and obtain membership of the Protection of Vulnerable Groups (PVG) scheme before Year 3 enrolment.
The course teaches the fundamentals of chemistry as a core science.
Across the four years of the course, increasingly complex understanding of principal aspects of Chemistry – organic, inorganic, analytical and physical – is developed.
Depth of knowledge across a broad range of topics supports the teaching of senior phase courses up to SQA Advanced Higher (or GCSE A-level) level.
In addition, this course aims to instill you with the skills and attributes that are transferable to other areas of study and professional employment.
92% of Chemistry with Education students agreed teaching staff are good at explaining things (National Student Survey 2024).
In Year 1 you will cover general aspects of chemistry including organic, inorganic and physical chemistry along with two other science subjects.
Students study a range of core modules which include the following: Structure of Chemistry, Chemistry and Reactions,  Scientific Investigation, and ASPIRE.*
In Year 2 the core chemistry modules are designed to extend your knowledge of the traditional subject areas of inorganic, organic, physical, and analytical  chemistry, in addition to introducing aspects of applied chemistry, spectroscopy and theoretical chemistry.
The core modules include the following: Physical Chemistry, Organic Chemistry, Chemical Laboratory Techniques, Inorganic Chemistry,  Chemical Analysis and Evaluation, and ASPIRE.*
The study of education is introduced in Year 3 with a focus on key educational issues, cross-cutting curricular themes, contexts for learning and professional values.
You will study chemistry modules that provide a foundation for the remaining honours year, as well as dealing with applied chemistry issues, the modules you will study include the following: Inorganic Chemistry, Analytical Chemistry, Physical Chemistry, Organic Chemistry, and School & Professional Studies (L9).
Progression to SCQF Level 9 is available to students who fulfil the university progression requirements and the GTCS requirements for entry to programmes of initial teacher education.
Knowledge and understanding of curriculum, pedagogy and assessment of chemistry and general science, and the skills and abilities to implement effective teaching and learning, are developed in Year 4 through campus teaching and school experience placements.
You will study the following modules: Organic Chemistry, Physical and Inorganic Chemistry 4, Secondary STEM Subject Studies, and Secondary School Experience.
Our Chemistry with Education degrees use a variety of assessment methods.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/criminal-justice-and-forensic-science:
Computing, Engineering & Physical Sciences, Education & Social Sciences
F420
The BSc Criminal Justice and Forensic Science degree helps you kick-start your career in the criminal justice system by developing expertise in criminal justice and the forensic examination of evidence.
This unique degree offers an opportunity to study criminal justice theory, research and policy alongside the forensic science vital to modern investigations.
It draws on learning and expertise from two existing and successful degrees (BA Criminal Justice and BSc Forensic Science) and it covers the study of:
This degree will prepare you for a career in the criminal justice system in policing, criminology or as a forensic examiner capable of analysing and interpreting evidence from crime scenes.
Throughout your studies, you will gradually develop your scientific knowledge and research and inquiry skills applicable to the interface between criminal justice and science.
The Chartered Society of Forensic Sciences
The BSc (Hons) Criminal Justice and Forensic Science is recognised by the Chartered Society of Forensic Sciences .
CRIMINAL JUSTICE AND FORENSIC SCIENCE PROGRAMME LEADER
This degree will provide you with a practical understanding of the techniques used in the forensic examination of evidence, including material from crime scenes, drugs and DNA evidence.
The chance to present evidence in moot court scenarios and group projects will help you develop the presentational, time management and IT skills sought after by employers.
As a graduate of Criminal Justice and Forensic Science from UWS, not only are you equipped with the specific knowledge and skills associated with the criminal justice system and the wider scientific community, but key transferable skills required by employers.
In Year 1, you will study the differences between deviant and criminal behaviour, the foundations of criminal law, and the way in which the criminal justice system operates.
You will also cover core forensic science, data analysis and biomolecular science.
Forensic topics introduced include drink driving, drugs, fingerprint development, explosions and crime scene investigation.
Laboratory work is an important part of your studies, practical exercises include microscopy, biochemical tests, forensic anthropology, fingerprint development and CSI.
Other activities will develop transferable skills, these include writing a report on a high-profile case, making a poster presentation, participating in a mock court and giving a presentation on a crime scene.
Learning and teaching will involve scheduled lectures, workshops, laboratory classes as well as independent study.
Extensive use is made of the virtual learning environment Moodle, to deliver teaching materials and complete assessments.
In Year 2, the theoretical underpinnings for understanding policing and contemporary perspectives on crime are studied.
Science study will build your knowledge of topics important to forensic science such as statistical evaluation of DNA evidence, laboratory analysis and crime scene investigation.
Practical skills are key for careers in forensic science and they are further developed with a range of practical activities that reflect the diverse work of forensic scientists.
In Year 3, crime scene expertise is developed with topics such as contamination prevention, trace evidence recovery and presumptive tests for blood and drugs.
Laboratory classes will focus on trace evidence identification and drug analysis.
Criminal justice studies include policing communities and prisons and penology.
Normal teaching schedules are supplemented by a variety of activities such as group work, guest speakers from industry and employability activities.
Following on from your Year 3 studies, there is the option to undertake a 12-month, paid, work experience placement.
After Year 3, there is an opportunity to undertake an optional 12-month paid work placement.
These placements are dependent on availability, but could be spent working in a laboratory or in a criminal justice setting.
In Year 4, specialist modules will deepen your understanding of how physical and biological evidence is recovered and examined.
You will carry out a major crime scene investigation activity and present the results in a mock court.
The effect of crime on society and victims is studied and there are options to study topics such as global security.
A major part of your studies will be a supervised research project relating to forensic science and/or criminal justice in a topic of your choice.
To assist our students in their research they have access to excellent computing facilities with the latest software for crime scene investigation, statistical analysis of evidence and research literature searching.
You will be taught through a combination of lectures, workshops and practical classes.
Extensive use is made of the virtual learning environment as well as the latest software packages.
Karen, Criminal Justice & Forensic Science student

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/forensic-science:
4 years full-time, 5 years full-time (sandwich), typically 6 years part-time, 4 years full-time, 5 years full-time (sandwich), typically 6 years part-time
F410
The BSc (Hons) Forensic Science degree will prepare you for a career in the UK and international criminal justice systems, through recent advances in analytical sciences and genetics.
You will develop expertise in crime scene examination and the scientific examination of recovered materials.
This degree will prepare you for life as a forensic scientist capable of using the latest chemical and biological techniques to analyse materials such as drugs, toxicology samples, trace evidence, DNA and ignitable liquids.
This will help you in prepare for a career such as a Scenes of Crime Officer (SOCO) or a civilian forensic support role.
They assist the police / law enforcement to investigate serious crimes and obtain vital fingerprint or DNA evidence.
You will also have access to work-based learning opportunities with industry partners including GlaxoSmithKline.
Graduates of the BSc (Hons) Forensic Science are eligible to apply for Associate Membership of the Royal Society of Chemistry (AMRSC).
Successful application is dependent on your subject selection within degree.
AMRSC status allows you to start your journey towards chartered status by joining the professional registers.
As an AMRSC you can apply to become a Registered Scientist (RSci).
The BSc (Hons) Forensic Science is accredited by the Chartered Society of Forensic Sciences .
Our programme academics have recorded videos to help you discover all there is to know about our courses.
From professional accreditation to programme modules and career opportunities, our programme academics will help answer all your questions.
FORENSIC SCIENCE PROGRAMME ACADEMIC
Th e BSc (Hons) Forensic Science offer s an excellent foundation for a rewarding career in a support services function, with the following law enforcement and national security agencies:
The transferable skills gained also make graduates attractive to many employers in other industries.
These include biotechnology, biomedical, chemical and pharmaceutical industries in environmental protection, accident investigation , distilling and brewing, chemical analysis, drug research , and policing roles.
Recent UWS graduates have secured roles, including:
Some graduates choose to continue their studies in forensic science on taught MSc programmes and in postgraduate research.
Advanced entry is possible to Year 2 of this course for suitably qualified applicants.
Applications to Year 3 of this course is considered on an individual and case-by-case basis (see below).
Forensic Science is the gathering and analysis of evidence that is impartial, expert and based on a solid scientific basis.
Forensic evidence is regularly presented by the prosecution and defence lawyers during criminal trials in cour t s of law.
Many convictions in serious criminal cases are based on forensic evidence including fingerprints, the presence of fibres and DNA evidence .
Advances in technology and science are assisting the development of new techniques such as DNA fingerprinting and helping to solve criminal cases.
The BSc (Hons) Forensic Science will equip you with the practical and transferable skills for a rewarding career as a forensic scientist in Scotland or abroad.
Our well-equipped laboratories enable hands-on experience in applied techniques, including gas chromatography-mass spectrometry and gel electrophoresis.
Our crime scene laboratory enables you to investigate simulated crime scene scenarios in a realistic manner.
Other teaching methods include site visits, workshops, role-play and presentations.
92% of Forensic Science students were satisfied overall with the course ( National Student Survey 2024).
Your first year covers fundamental chemistry and bioscience including the development of laboratory skills.
You will also cover core forensic science and data analysis.
Laboratory work is an important part of your studies.
Practical exercises include:
Other activities will develop transferable skills.
These include writing a report on a high-profile case, making a poster presentation, participating in a mock court and giving a presentation on a crime scene.
Learning and teaching will involve scheduled lectures, workshops, laboratory classes, as well as independent study.
Extensive use is made of the virtual learning environment, to deliver teaching materials and complete assessments.
In Year 2, core chemistry modules are studied, building knowledge and practical skills in organic, physical and analytical chemistry.
Classical and molecular genetics are studied along with a genetics laboratory.
Crime scene investigation is studied along with the use of probability and statistics to evaluate forensic evidence.
Practical skills are key for careers in forensic science and they are further developed in all modules.
There is a great range of practical activities reflecting the diverse work of forensic scientists.
There is a large crime scene investigation activity, were students will record and recover evidence with specialist software being used to present the report.
In Year 3, a range of forensic topics are examined in greater detail.
You will begin to specialise in the treatment and analysis of evidence through modules which include extensive hands-on experience of instrumental techniques used routinely in forensic science investigations.
This includes:
Crime scene examination is covered in a number of modules with a focus on topics such as contamination prevention, trace evidence recovery and presumptive tests for blood and drugs.
Normal teaching schedules are supplemented by a variety of activities such as group work, guest speakers from industry
After Year 3, you will also have the option to undertake a year’s paid work experience as part of the Honours sandwich programme.
This is normally spent working in an industry-based pharmaceutical or environmental laboratory.
In your Honours year, you will study advanced topics in chemical analysis, forensic biology, forensic evidence and forensic toxicology.
You will also undertake a research project at the frontiers of forensic science.
Recent projects have included studies of post-mortem drug levels, laboratory tests for saliva, development of fingerprints, electron microscopy of trace evidence and explosive detection.
This project forms a substantial part of your studies and gives you the chance to develop real expertise in a particular area.
A major theme of the honours year is developing the practical skills required for crime scene examination and evidence examination.
For example, by participating in a major CSI activity and examining evidence for DNA.
The BSc (Hons) Criminal Justice and Forensic Science combines academic study with practical experience to give you the knowledge and skills for a career in this field.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/mathematics:
4 years, full-time
G100
Join the BSc (Hons) Mathematics degree programme to learn how mathematics underpins and describes the world around us.
Build the knowledge and skills required to excel in a multitude of professional sectors including finance, engineering, programming, teaching, and mathematical research.
This programme will provide you with a broad understanding of key areas of mathematics, with options to individualise your degree at the later stages.
Choose to study topics from a range of options including Mathematical Biology, Numerical Analysis, Statistics and Applications of Number Theory.
MATHEMATICS PROGRAMME LEADER
Following graduation from the BSc (Hons) Mathematics programme, you’ll leave UWS with career options in banking, finance, oil and gas, computing and technology, and many more exciting sectors.
Mathematics graduates are highly sought after across all areas due to their analytical and critical thinking skills.
Honours graduates may choose to pursue further study of Mathematics and/or Statistics through Masters or Doctoral programmes at this or other universities.
Mathematics courses at UWS have been developed in collaboration with industrial, professional and educational partners.
Direct entry to Year 2 (with an appropriate HND) may be possible.
Alternative pathway to entry is available through our new summer school.
More information about the summer school is available by emailing the Programme Leader: ceps@uws.ac.uk
Applications to Year 3 considered on an individual basis.
Please contact ask@uws.ac.uk with specific queries.
This programme aims to instil you with the skills and attributes that are transferable to many areas of study and professional employment.
In Year 1 you will study five core Mathematics / Statistics modules and a module on Professional Skills.
In Year 2, you will study core modules in Multivariable Calculus, Probability & Statistics, Discrete Mathematics, Linear Algebra, Differential Equations and Professional Skills.
In Year 3, alongside a specialist core module in Mathematics, you can further personalise your degree with option modules including in Statistical Inference and Abstract Algebra.
Knowledge and understanding of Advanced Mathematics is developed in Year 4, with options including Experimental Design, Mathematical Biology, and Applications of Number Theory.
You will also undertake a research dissertation where your knowledge can be applied to an extended project in a range of areas.
You will be taught through a combination of lectures, tutorials, computer laboratory sessions, and workshops.
You will also have the opportunity to take part in group work and independent learning to develop your transferable skills such as research, presentation, communication, and working as part of a team.
This degree is assessed using a variety of assessment methods including:
Accredited by the Institute of Physics (IoP), the BSc (Hons) Physics develops your understanding of the fundamentals of physics as a core science.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/mathematics-with-education:
G11X
Ayr (Educ modules) & Paisley (Maths modules): September
The BSc (Hons) Mathematics with Education degree programme provides you with the extensive theoretical knowledge and practical skills in mathematics and statistics, as well as professional skills through work-based learning, to ensure you are fully equipped to meet the demands of being a Mathematics teacher in secondary (high) school.
The overall aim of the course is to allow you to develop the knowledge and skills required to teach Mathematics at Secondary School level.
You will study mathematics to Honours level.
You will also develop your teaching skills in Years 3* and 4 by taking modules in Education and practical teaching placements in a school.
On successful completion of the course, you will have met the Standard for Provisional Registration.
You'll be eligible to apply for provisional registration with the General Teaching Council for Scotland (GTCS) and entry to the Teacher Induction Scheme in Scotland as a secondary school teacher of Mathematics.
*Higher English or equivalent needed to progress into Year 3 of the programme (alternative route available).
mathematics with education programme leader
The course prepares you to be both a Mathematician and and an Educational Practitioner.
You will be taught the fundamentals of Mathematics and Statistics as a core science.
Computer laboratory sessions develop practical and communication skills.
Across the four years of the course, an increasingly complex understanding of Mathematics and Statistics, viz.
Algebra, Calculus, Probability & Statistics, is developed.
The study of Education is introduced in Year 3.
There is a focus on key educational issues, cross-cutting curricular themes, contexts for learning and professional values.
Knowledge and understanding of curriculum, pedagogy and assessment of secondary Mathematics, and the skills and abilities to implement effective teaching and learning, are developed in Year 4, through campus teaching and school experience placements.
More information about the summer school is available by contacting the Programme Leader by emailing: ceps@uws.ac.uk
Applications to Year 3 considered on an individual basis to assess prior mathematical education.
The following requirements must also be met:
If you meet the above conditions and are offered the opportunity enter at Year 3 of this degree, you must apply for and obtain membership of the Protection of Vulnerable Groups (PVG) scheme before Year 3 enrolment.
This programme aims to instil you with the skills and attributes that are transferable to other areas of study and professional employment.
In Year 1 you will study core modules in Mathematics and Statistics, and a module in Professional Skills.
In Year 2, you will study more advanced core modules in Mathematics and Statistics which follow from those studied in Year 1.
In Year 3, alongside specialist core and option modules in Mathematics and Statistics, the study of Education is introduced with a focus on key educational issues, cross-cutting curricular themes, contexts for learning and professional values.
Knowledge and understanding of advanced Mathematics, alongside curriculum, pedagogy and assessment of Mathematics, and the skills and abilities to implement effective teaching and learning, are developed in Year 4, through campus teaching and school experience placements.
The course will allow you to develop Honours-level knowledge and skills in Mathematics and Statistics.
You will also be eligible to apply for provisional registration with GTCS, and entry to the Teacher Induction Scheme as secondary school teachers of Mathematics and Statistics.
You will also have the option to work in finance, research, engineering industries and many other fields, since mathematics graduates are highly sought after in all areas due to their analytical skills.
The GTCS Standard for Provisional Registration is part of a suite of educational professional standards published in 2012.
Individuals obtaining Provisional Registration aim to progress to Full Registration and are then expected to continue to develop their expertise through appropriate and sustained career long professional learning.
The suite of professional standards may be used to guide this learning and includes, for example, the Standards for Leadership and Management.
Non-award-bearing courses have always formed an important part of professional development and update for teachers.
However, many opportunities exist at Masters level, and above, in subjects and areas relevant to schools and the wider world of education.
Honours graduates may choose to pursue further study of Mathematics and/or Statistics through Masters or Doctoral programmes at UWS or other universities.
The BSc (Hons) Mathematics will provide you with a broad understanding of key areas of mathematics, with options to individualise your degree at every level.
Accredited by the Institute of Physics (IoP) the BSc (Hons) Physics with Nuclear Technology covers the core topics of BSc (Hons) Physics but specialises in nuclear technology.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/physics:
F300
The professionally-recognised BSc (Hons) Physics degree will develop your understanding of the fundamentals of physics as a core science.
It will build your knowledge and professional skills to prepare you for a career in any area of physics, including industrial applications and academic research.
UWS is a key member of Scottish Universities Physics Alliance (SUPA), a research alliance with the aim of placing Scotland at the forefront of international physics research.
You can be assured that you will be taught by research-active academics who are specialists in their field.
You will also have the opportunity to undertake a 12-month paid placement with an industrial or scientific employer in the UK or abroad.
This course is accredited by the Institute of Physics (IOP).
It partially meets the educational requirements for Chartered Physicist (CPhys).
You can also apply to become a Registered Scientist (RSci) through the IoP upon completion of the course.
PHYSICS PROGRAMME ACADEMIC
In addition to work-based learning, the Honours sandwich degree offers you the opportunity to complete a year’s paid work experience with an industrial or scientific employer in the UK or abroad.
In recent years, students have undertaken placements with Rutherford Appleton Laboratory and CERN Accelerator in Switzerland.
Broaden your horizons, learn a new language and prepare for the best international opportunities available.
Underpinned by research that is judged as "internationally excellent" and "world-class", our degrees enable students to make a real world impact.
Our modern labs and workshops are fitted with industry-standard equipment, allowing for research in microbiology, physics, forensic science, analytical chemistry and biotechnology.
There is high demand for physics graduates in industries, including microelectronic telecommunications, optics, energy, teaching and research.
Physicists are also in demand in the public services, including in schools and hospitals, the civil service and research laboratories.
UWS Physics BSc graduates have gone on to secure employment with major companies, including:
Graeme Docherty-Walthew, BSc (Hons) Physics graduate
Some graduates choose further study at MSc, MRes and PhD level.
Others go on to complete a Professional Graduate Diploma in Education ( Secondary ) to become a physics teacher at secondary school level.
The BSc Physics is designed to develop your knowledge and understanding of physics to an advanced level.
Throughout your studies you will cover the core concepts in physics, including:
As part of your degree, you will develop the laboratory skills and problem-solving experience w hich w ill enhance your familiarity with the principles and techniques of experimental physics, as well as general scientific research.
This will help you to prepare you for a successful career in industry or research.
Guest speakers from industry also form part of the course to further deepen your understanding of the subject and to explore potential career options .
UWS’s Physics BSc is taught on our Paisley Campus, which has modern classrooms, state-of-the-art teaching facilities and well-equipped laboratories that will help you learn the relevant theoretical principles and practical skills.
In Years 3 and 4 of study, some of your practical work may be carried out within our research laboratories.
Core modules include physics, mathematics, and computational methods.
The physics modules are taught at the same level as the Scottish Advanced Higher syllabus.
Aspects of atomic physics and thermodynamics are also taught.
You will branch out to other areas including classical mechanics, optics, electronics, properties of matter, modern physics, and mathematical methods for physicists.
Practical and professional skills are also developed.
Core modules include electromagnetism, quantum mechanics, atoms, nuclei and particles, advanced mathematical methods for physicists.
Optional modules can be chosen from imaging and nuclear medicine, numerical analysis, detectors and nuclear lab skills, advanced optics.
This is an optional year spent in industry or a relevant scientific research laboratory.
Subjects are more advanced developments of those undertaken in Year 3, with additional topics including statistical physics, solid state physics, selected topics in theoretical physics, optical system design, principles of nuclear physics, applications of nuclear physics, partial differential equations.
You will undertake a research dissertation where your knowledge can be applied to an extended project.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/physics-with-education:
PE30
Ayr (Educ modules) & Paisley (Phys modules): September
The BSc (Hons) Physics with Education will provide you with both the extensive theoretical knowledge, and practical skills in physics and professional skills through work-based learning, to ensure you are fully equipped to meet the demands of being a Physics teacher in secondary (high) school.
The overall aim of the course is to allow you to develop the knowledge and skills required to teach Physics at Secondary School level.
You will study Physics to Honours level.
Your studies will contain all of the core material of the Physics degree including quantum mechanics, electromagnetism, atomic, nuclear and particle physics.
You will also develop your teaching skills in Years 3 and 4 by taking modules in Education and practical school placements.
You will be eligible to apply for provisional registration with the General Teaching Council for Scotland (GTCS) and entry to the Teacher Induction Scheme as a secondary school teacher of Physics with Science.
The BSc (Hons) Physics with Education is professionally recognised by the General Teaching Council for Scotland (GTCS).
By successfully completing the course you will meet the Standard for Provisional Registration as a secondary school teacher of physics with science.
Graduates of the BSc (Hons) Physics with Education degree will have the same career prospects as graduates of the BSc (Hons) Physics degree.
However, it is expected that graduates of this programme will follow a career path into the teaching of Physics in high schools.
The BSc (Hons) Physics with Education was developed in response to the need for more Physics teachers in Scotland, so the career prospects are excellent.
Following graduation from the BSc (Hons) Physics with Education degree, graduates are provisionally registered with the GTCS and are eligible for a one-year paid induction post in a Scottish high school.
Please visit our Undergraduate Entry Requirements pag e for information on our different entry requirements, including country-specific details for EU and non-EU qualifications.
The course will cover all of the core topics of a degree in physics, alongside modules in education, including school placements.
Core modules include physics, mathematics, and computational methods.The physics modules are taught at the same level as the Scottish Advanced Higher syllabus.
You will take four core physics modules covering important aspects of physics such as quantum mechanics, atomic and nuclear physics, electromagnetism, and thermodynamics and statistical physics.
You will also take a double-weighted module in education focusing on the policies and influences in education.
You will spend eighteen weeks on school experience placements in at least two high schools.
The five blocks of placement will enable students to connect theory and practice in relation to teaching and assessment of physics and general science, and develop an understanding of wider school issues.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/physics-with-nuclear-technology:
F390
The BSc Physics with Nuclear Technology course is the only one of its kind in Scotland, and is accredited by the Institute of Physics (IoP).
The programme develops your understanding of the fundamentals of physics as a core science, and will build your knowledge and professional skills to prepare you for a career in any area of physics, including industrial applications and academic research.
As the course has a focus on nuclear technology, you will be prepared for a career in the nuclear power industry, or in the use of nuclear technology in the healthcare sector.
Nuclear technology has far-reaching applications for our world; in medical imaging, environmental monitoring, radioactive dating, and nuclear energy generation.
Nuclear physics and radiation detection are also prerequisites in conducting research in nuclear and particle physics at large laboratories such as CERN, the European organisation for Nuclear Research.
Specifically designed for students with an interest in nuclear physics and its applications, the course offers options for placements in the UK and Europe, ensuring wide-ranging career opportunities.
In recent years students have undertaken placements with Rutherford Appleton Laboratory and CERN Accelerator in Switzerland.
In addition to work-based learning the Honours sandwich programme also offers you the opportunity to complete a year’s paid work experience with an industrial or scientific employer in the UK or abroad.
Underpinned by research that is judged as “internationally excellent” and “world-class”, our degrees enable students to make a real world impact.
The BSc Physics with Nuclear Technology is designed to develop your knowledge and understanding of physics to an advanced level.
You will study core topics in physics and specialise in nuclear  technologies .
As part of your degree you will take part in practical classes w hich w ill enhance your familiarity with the principles and techniques of experimental physics.
You will have flexibility in your choice of final degree title.
Guest speakers from industry also form part of the programme to further deepen your understanding of the subject and to explore potential career options .
Modules include electromagnetism, quantum mechanics, atoms, nuclei and particles, advanced mathematical methods for physicists, imaging and nuclear medicine, detectors and nuclear lab skills.
You will have the option of spending a year working in industry or a relevant scientific research laboratory.
Subjects are more advanced developments of those undertaken in Year 3, with additional topics including statistical physics, solid state physics, principles of nuclear physics, applications of nuclear physics.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/criminology-criminal-justicecriminology-criminal-justice-policing:
M211
Prepare yourself for a career in the criminal justice system with UWS’s BA (Hons) Criminology & Criminal Justice/Criminology & Criminal Justice (Policing).
This degree – the only one of its kind in Scotland – will help you develop expertise in criminology and criminal justice, social science, research methods, law and policy so that you’re ready to work in related areas in policing, prisons and the third sector.
After Year 2, you’ll have the option to continue to study criminal justice or to specialise in policing through our policing specialism options.
We work closely with experts and practitioners in criminal justice to provide a firm understanding of criminology and criminal justice in Scotland, the UK, Europe and internationally.
Our exciting degree includes topics such as: policing, prisons and punishment, crime investigation, youth and gang violence, forensics, victimology, and explores the journeys of those who come into contact with the criminal justice system, including looking at some of the reasons people may commit crime.
You will learn to examine information critically and develop skills that you can take with you into many aspects of your life.
The BA (Hons) Criminology & Criminal Justice/Criminology & Criminal Justice (Policing) is a full-time programme.
You will study the concepts, theories, structures, organisations, processes and practices involved with the prevention, investigation and prosecution of crime, the workings of the criminal law and criminal court system and the treatment of offenders.
Guest speakers also form part of the programme to further deepen your understanding of the subject.
The programme runs an annual Criminal Justice Employment Information Day, which has in the past been attended by the Scottish Prison Service, Police Scotland, SACRO, Victim Support and Turning Point Scotland amongst other relevant organisations and institutions.
In Year 1 you will be introduced to the historical, legal and philosophical context of criminal justice.
You will also begin to develop an understanding of the criminal justice and wider social science approaches to research and inquiry that underpin good quality research linked with the discipline.
In Year 2 you will deepen your understanding of the theoretical debates within criminal justice through in-depth analysis of criminology, and begin to learn about criminal investigation through an introduction to policing.
You will learn in more detail about the research process and begin thinking about how research should be conducted in an ethical and valid way.
In Year 3 you will develop an applied and critical approach to criminal justice issues through modules that examine prisons, youth justice, and the ability for students to choose topics from a range of contemporary issues to focus on.
Students will have the opportunity to apply through a competitive process to focus their studies in the area of Policing through the policing specialism that will result in a Criminal Justice (Policing) bracketed award upon graduation.
In Year 4 (Honours) you will carry out a research dissertation on a criminal justice topic (or policing topic for students on the bracketed award), as well as deepening your knowledge of contemporary issues and debates through specialist optional modules including Victimology, Security in a Global Age and Crime as Social Harm.
Students also have the choice to learn more about justice processes around the world through comparative justice, or have the option to gain credit for voluntary work or paid employment they are engaged in through the Working in Criminal Justice module.
Students are taught and assessed through a wide and varied selection of approaches.
In addition to standard essays and reports in assessment, there are a number of experiential learning and assessment activities implemented throughout the programme.
These include mock children’s hearings and criminal trials.
There are opportunities to showcase student work through organised poster presentation exhibitions, and further engagement with criminal justice professionals from organisations including Police Scotland, the Police Investigations and Review Commissioner, Victim Support Scotland and many more through guest lectures and workshops.
The central aim is to ensure that all graduates from the BA (Hons) Criminology & Criminal Justice/Criminology & Criminal Justice (Policing) are equipped with a balance of theoretical knowledge and practical skills and experience to ensure that they are ready to enter employment in the criminal justice sector with confidence upon graduation.
This programme will prepare you for employment in the police and prison services, criminal courts and third sector criminal justice services in roles such as general administration and management.
Graduates will also find opportunities in restorative justice and mediation, community safety, and working with offenders, victims and witnesses.
As well as other major organisations linked with criminal justice in Scotland and the UK, Criminal Justice graduates have gone on to work for :
The BA (Hons) Law covers a wide range of legal subjects and is designed for those pursuing a career in the legal sector.
The BSc (Hons) Psychology is accredited by the British Psychological Society (BPS) and covers the study of the human mind and will prepare you for a career as a Chartered Psychologist.
The UWS BA (Hons) Social Work provides a transformational student-centred learning experience, to meet the demands of contemporary social work practice.
Dumfries, Paisley

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/criminology-and-psychology:
M212
Are you fascinated by the workings of the human mind and the complexities of criminal behaviour in society?
Are you curious about understanding what ‘makes a murderer’?
Do you wish to develop the analytical expertise to go beyond the depictions of crime that are shown on contemporary streaming services such as Netflix?
In addressing these issues, our interdisciplinary BA (Hons) Criminology and Psychology course offers a unique blend of two closely related academic fields, providing you with the knowledge and skills to make a real difference in society.
Our undergraduate degree – brand new to UWS and the only one of its kind offered by a Scottish university – will help you to develop expertise in criminology, psychology, and research methods so that you’re ready to work in related areas in criminal justice, policing and security agencies, prisons, third sector and community organisations.
Our exciting degree includes topics such as:
We work closely with experts and practitioners in criminal justice and psychology to provide a firm understanding of crime, justice, offending behaviours, and victimology in Scotland, the UK, Europe and internationally.
You will learn to examine data critically and develop analytical skills that you can take with you into many aspects of your life.
Taught by research active experts and academics with backgrounds in professional practice, you’ll be equipped with the work-ready knowledge and authentic skills for employment in a variety of roles in the criminal justice system and beyond.
Guest lectures from industry professionals and field trips to organisations including Police Scotland, the Scottish Prison Service, Victim Support Scotland and more are offered throughout the degree.
You can join the student-run Crime and Justice Student Society, and the Psychology Society, both of which will provide you with advice, support and networking opportunities – as well as a supportive environment to enter university life and study.
This programme has opportunities for international study thanks to links with partner institutions in Europe and the USA.
What is the relationship between Criminology and Psychology?
What are the benefits of combining these two academic fields?
Our Programme Leader, Dr Colin Atkinson, explains in 60 seconds why Criminology and Psychology go hand in hand (TikTok video).
The BA (Hons) Criminology and Psychology is a full-time programme.
You will study the fundamentals and deeper insights of both disciplines – encompassing theory, concepts, applied to case studies, as well as organisations, policies and practices – involved in understanding and responding to offending behaviours and in supporting victims.
The programme benefits from the employability support offered by the university, as well as the advice and guidance of academics and experts in both psychology and criminology.
In Year 1 you will be introduced to the foundational theories of criminology and the institutions and processes of criminal justice.
You will also begin to develop an appreciation of psychological theory, as well as how to use evidence and apply analytical techniques to data in areas such as offender profiling and crime analysis.
In Year 2 you will deepen your understanding of the evolution of psychology as a discipline, looking at psychology past and present and the approaches of developmental psychology.
You will also learn in more detail about the currents and complexities of contemporary criminology and its complexities, as well as issues around policing and popular culture.
In Year 3 you will broaden your knowledge and understanding to incorporate specialist topics, including social psychology, cognitive psychology, and an understanding of key issues in criminology, such as the philosophical and practical development of the contemporary British prison systems.
Students will also develop their research skills as they begin their journey towards selecting a specialist dissertation topic and designing an approach to investigate this topic in detail in their fourth (Honours) year.
In Year 4 (Honours) you will carry out a research dissertation on a specialist topic related to criminology and psychology, as well as the chance to deepen your knowledge of contemporary issues and debates through specialist modules including Forensic Psychology and Victimology.
In addition to standard essays and reports in assessment, there are a number of authentic and work-ready learning and assessment activities implemented throughout the programme.
These include, for example, the ways to use and analyse crime and intelligence data to create offender profiles.
There are opportunities to showcase student work through organised poster presentations, and further engagement with criminal justice professionals from organisations including Police Scotland, the Police Investigations and Review Commissioner, Victim Support Scotland and many more through guest lectures and workshops.
The central aim is to ensure that all graduates from the BA (Hons) Criminology and Psychology are equipped with a balance of theoretical knowledge and practical skills and experience to ensure that they are ready to enter employment in the criminal justice sector and beyond with confidence upon graduation.
This programme will prepare you for employment across a range of agencies and organisations, including the police and prison services, security and intelligence agencies, criminal courts and third sector criminal justice services.
Criminology and Psychology graduates may also find opportunities in restorative justice and mediation, community safety, and working with offenders, victims and witnesses.
As well as other major organisations linked with criminal justice in Scotland and the UK, Criminology and Psychology graduates may gone on to work for:

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/postgraduate-course-search/psychology:
MSc
1 year full-time, typically 2 years part-time
The MSc Psychology (Conversion) is accredited by the British Psychological Society (BPS) .
It is designed for graduates with an Honours degree in a discipline other than psychology, or a non-accredited Honours degree psychology, who wish to make a career change and study psychology.
Building upon your previous knowledge and experience, the course allows you to gain your first qualification in psychology and take the first step towards becoming a psychologist.
The course also allows you to gain a range of skills and extensive knowledge of psychology, which could enhance your employability and benefit your existing or future non-psychology career.
Ene, 2022/2023 graduate
Hafsa, 2023/2024 graduate
Check out our student-staff podcast on the international student experience on the course .
Student Awards Agency Scotland (SAAS) postgraduate tuition fee and living cost loans may be available for eligible (Scottish/EU) students.
Check SAAS website for more information.
Don’t worry if your qualifications are not listed here, we take a range of factors into account when assessing your application and are happy to consider other alternative combinations of qualifications and experience
If you are applying with an EU or non-EU qualification, please check our Postgraduate Entry Requirements page which gives more information about country-specific entry requirements.
You will require an Honours degree (2:2 or above) in any subject area, or a non-accredited psychology Honours degree.
Our Masters degree is accredited by the British Psychological Society (BPS), which means that on completion of the course you will be eligible for Graduate Basis for Chartered Membership (GBC) of the BPS.
This in turn offers the possibility of pursuing a career or further postgraduate education in psychology.
You must complete the seven core modules below to achieve the MSc award.
Check out our videos that give a short module overview:
Note: In Year 1, part-time students need to complete two Term 1 modules, one of which must be Research Methods in Psychology, and two Term 2 modules.
In Year 2, they need to complete the remaining modules and Psychology Research Dissertation.
Each module other than Psychology Research Dissertation includes 36 to 48 hours of on-campus classes which constitute 20% of the total study time.
The classes typically include a 1-hour lecture, followed by a 2-hour seminar.
Check out an example of one of our lectures .
We are cognisant of students’ other commitments when scheduling the on-campus classes.
Students will typically have all their classes on two consecutive days.
On-campus learning is supported by readings, resources, and other independent activities for students to complete before and after the classes to enhance their learning.
The classes include a range of student-centred learning activities that promote active, problem-based, and practical learning.
In terms of assessment, we prioritise authentic, engaging, and diverse assessments (mainly different types of research reports and oral presentations; no exams or multiple-choice tests) that allow students to develop and showcase their understanding and skill sets.
Our course provides a variety of integrated learning and assessment opportunities and experiences which will enhance your:
All of this standing you in good stead when the times comes to seek employment.
LEARNING AND TEACHING
ASSESSMENT
Graduates from Psychology Conversion courses have continued postgraduate training in educational, clinical, forensic, health, counselling, and occupational psychology, pursued successful careers in education, business, health and the media, or progressed into PhD research.
Possible roles include market research, personnel management, teaching, roles in the civil or health service, careers guidance and project management.
You may pursue professional training in:
Alternatively, you may wish to consider PhD research.
£7,500 Total cost of tuition
£11,750 Total cost of tuition
£15,500 Total cost of tuition
£1,070 per module (20 credits)
£1,680 per module (20 credits)
£2,210 per module (20 credits)
All students should apply directly to the University through our online application system.
Before you apply, you should check that you meet our entry requirements and you should have all your supporting documents ready.
The first stage of the process is to complete the initial application form.
You will then receive a follow-up email with further instructions relating to your application including documents that you will need to forward to support your application, e.g.
degree transcripts and certificates etc.
Most courses don't have a formal closing date, but they will close when they are full; apply early to avoid disappointment.
There may also be funding deadlines that apply to you.
The Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS) applies to all international students and researchers (apart from exempt nationalities) who are subject to UK immigration control and are intending to study or research at postgraduate level in certain sensitive subjects.
Students and researchers who are nationals of EU countries, the European Economic Area (EEA), Australia, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, Singapore, South Korea, Switzerland or the United States of America do not need an ATAS certificate.
An ATAS certificate may be required for certain taught postgraduate master's degrees for international students at UWS.
For the latest information on ATAS and details of eligibility and how to apply for a certificate check the UK Government's dedicated ATAS web pages .
With cutting edge facilities, specialist knowledge and world-leading and internationally excellent expertise, we aim to develop research outputs that have a tangible, early and positive impact on society across the globe.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/social-sciences:
4 years full-time, variable part-time
L310
The BA (Hons) Social Sciences is a multi-disciplinary degree focusing on how individuals, groups, and institutions interact and how societies are organised and change.
Amongst the key issues that Social Sciences at UWS focuses on are social justice, power, participation, and sustainability.
The first two years of this degree equip you with a firm grounding in the essential disciplines of politics, policy and sociology.
After this, you can choose to follow one of three specialist pathways at both Paisley and Lanarkshire campuses:
In these pathways, you will deepen your understanding of society, politics, and policy and have opportunities to develop further subject specialisation.
Graduate employability is embedded throughout the programme, as you develop your critical thinking skills alongside a wide range of research and transferable skills that are highly valued by the public, private and voluntary sectors.
Emma, Graduate, BA (Hons) Social Science (Society, Politics & Policy)
The suite comprises:
All four options are available at both Paisley and Lanarkshire campuses.
The first two years the structure and modules studied are similar across all options / pathways.
You will be able to  specialise your studies through the selection of a number of optional modules according to your career preferences in Years three and four.
Through studying Social Sciences at UWS, you will develop a range of key skills to enhance your employability.
These include critical research skills, information literacy, data-handling and analysis, and communication skills.
You will also emerge as a specialist in politics, sociology and policy studies in your own right, enabling you to understand complex debates and contribute to them.
Lastly, throughout the course you will be supported and encouraged by academic experts and the University’s wider support network to become a reflective and independent learner.
You will be introduced to the key social science discipline of sociology and develop your ‘sociological imagination’ to grasp the key issues in modern society.
This learning will be embedded in furthering your understanding of how the world as we see it today emerged.
You will also be introduced to research and academic skills and competences.
Your modules will include:
You will continue learning about how to do social sciences research.
Furthermore, you will learn about government, the state, and the politics of policy-making.
Lastly, a key policy area – that of social policy – will be introduced to you.
In Year 2, you will deepen your engagement with the key debates in the social sciences.
Core modules will equip you with knowledge of comparative politics and the classical works of social and political thought.
You will also develop your qualitative research skills and knowledge.
You will study questions concerning global politics and society and focus on how the state and others address social problems.
You will also further develop your research skills by studying how to undertake quantitative research.
Starting from Year 3, you can choose a specialist pathway in: Sociology; Politics and Policy; or Sociology and Policy.
You will develop your research skills and knowledge to hone your research practice ahead of your final year dissertation.
You will choose three modules from the following:
*Please note that the selection of modules may change
In your final year, you will undertake an independent research project – your dissertation.
Expert academics will guide you in your topic choice and in the making of this project.
In addition, you will further develop your specialist knowledge by choosing from a variety of elective modules.
Modules are taught through lectures and seminars – in both, students are welcome and expected to engage with each other and with their lecturers.
Students will be taught by academic staff with recognised expertise in politics, sociology and policy studies.
Seminars and lecture are all on campus, allowing students and academics to fully engage with each other.
The University’s virtual learning platform and video conferencing software will be used to enhance the learning experience and to facilitate contact between students and academic staff.
The modules are assessed through a variety of formative and summative assessments.
These range from traditional essays to presentations, from case studies to policy evaluations.
These assessments allow you to demonstrate your development of the following:
Graduates from the programme can work in the public, private, and third sectors.
Some may work for politicians, others will use their skills and knowledge in housing and planning or in journalism.
The diverse voluntary sector attracts social sciences graduates as policy researchers.
Finally, some graduates have followed conversion courses to become primary and secondary school teachers.
Graduates can also pursue postgraduate studies in a variety of academic disciplines up to doctoral level.
You will also be able to undertake further study at master's level courses such as:
Cal, Social Sciences student
The BA (Hons) Criminal Justice / Criminal Justice (Policing) is unique in Scotland and will develop your expertise across criminal justice theory, research and policy.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/social-work:
L500
The degree is rich in practice authenticity and seeks to develop essential applied knowledge and skills to thrive in a challenging yet hugely rewarding social work career.
The BA (Hons) Social Work has been accredited by the Scottish Social Services Council.
The degree content, assessments, readings and discussions aid the development of a professional identity to ensure graduates flourish in practice.
If you have the drive and personal qualities to thrive in a profession that requires professional relationship building, informed decision-making and critical thinking in often complex and emotive circumstances, we would love to hear from you.
Successful candidates will demonstrate passion for the profession, be IT competent and must register with the Scottish Social Services Council as a social work student.
We would welcome candidates who share a commitment to social justice and have the necessary personal qualities to flourish in such a challenging yet rewarding profession.
Candidates need to be eligible to register with the Scottish Services Council (SSSC) as a social work student and be IT competent.
It would be advantageous for candidates to have some voluntary or paid experience in a social work/care setting such as a charity or voluntary organisation working with people, prior to applying.
All HNCs and HNDs must include Maths and English at National 5 Grade C or equivalent
All HNCs require an A in the Graded Unit
All HNDs require a minimum of BA in the Graded Units
Designed in collaboration with stakeholders, this programme meets the requirements of the Scottish Government and has been approved by the Scottish Social Services Council.
Lecturers are registered social workers with wide-ranging expertise and students are addressed by guest lecturers and service users.
The first two years of the course cover the theoretical base for social work.
The final two years concentrate on applying that theory and knowledge into practice on two practice learning placements.
Placements are varied and have taken place in organisations, including:
It is a requirement for all successful candidates to register with the Scottish Social Services Council and to maintain this registration for the duration of study.
Further information about registering is available here www.sssc.uk.com/registration
Programme content and learning is focused on developing essential foundational knowledge relevant to the social work profession.
Programme content and learning is designed to enhance applied knowledge and specialist skills relevant to practising social work.
Programme content and learning develops abilities to apply learning to professional practice.
Programme content and learning is designed to increase confidence and competence with critical practice.
The programme prides itself on developing a learning community amongst social work students.
Teaching uses a variety of methods to stimulate, engage and develop knowledge and skills.
Students are expected to consolidate learning with regular reading and discussion.
Programme assessment is practice relevant and varied.
Assessment feedback commentary is identified as a strength on programme and will always seek to consolidate student strengths and identify areas for future development.
Graduates from the UWS BA (Hons) Social Work programme have an established record in securing related employment promptly upon graduation.
The applied knowledge and specialist skills developed throughout the programme are key attributes sought by external social work employers.
The programme prepares students well for further study in related disciplines, should they choose to.
Previous graduates have chosen further study in Social Policy, Psychology, Sociology and Criminology.
Core textbooks (also available in the library in print or online) : £100 (Years 1-4, Optional)
Scottish Social Services Council Registration (application fee and annual declaration): £15 (Years 1-4, Mandatory)
Protection of Vulnerable Groups check (required when commencing studies and again in year 3 prior to placement.
UWS pay £18 for a revised PVG) : £18 (Years 1&3, Mandatory)

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/sport-exercise-science-sport-exercise-science-physical-activity-health:
C602
UWS's BSc (Hons) Sport & Exercise Science / Sport & Exercise Science (Physical Activity & Health) prepares you for a career where you will learn how to support athletes in maximising their performance.
This degree focuses on the science behind high-performance sport and physical activity for the promotion of health.
The teaching on programme is research-led and promotes both health and performance elements of sport and exercise science.
Hosting the only British Association of Sport and Exercise Science (CASES) accredited lab in Scotland, we can offer lab-based and practical tuition.
Assessments are a key feature of this programme and will develop your hands-on skills and sport and exercise knowledge.
Students in their final year of study will have a wide range of optional modules to select from which best suit their interests and career ambitions.
A dedicated Physical Activity & Health pathway is available to 4th year students who wish to take a focused set of modules specific to that field of study.
WATCH OUR VIDEO HERE!
UWS offers opportunities for our students to study abroad via our exchange programmes.
In years 2 and 3 you will have the opportunity to undertake a work placement with a relevant employer.
These placements are specifically designed to develop your skills and experience in the workplace, enhancing your job prospects within the sports industry upon completion of your degree.
UWS have worked with the Chartered Institute for the Management of Sport and Physical Activity (CIMSPA) to achieve endorsement against industry professional standards for its undergraduate degree programmes in sport.
UWS joined CIMSPA as a higher education partner in June 2022 to further enhance students' employability.
This programme has been endorsed against several professional standards:
This programme is also endorsed by the British Association of Sport and Exercise Sciences (CASES) through their Undergraduate Endorsement Scheme (BUES).
The BEUS awards endorsement to sport and exercise science degree courses that provide undergraduates with the opportunity to develop the knowledge and skills essential to enter into the profession.
It is now the recognised standard for all sport and exercise science undergraduate degree programmes in the UK.
student satisfaction with teaching on the programme (National Student Survey 2024)
of BSc Sport and Exercise Science students were satisfied or very satisfied with knowledge of our teaching staff
DDD (72 UCAS Tariff points) including a science subject (Biology preferred) or PE
Full T Level with Grade P (A* - C) (96 Tariff points) in relevant subject
H3 H4 H4 H4 including a science subject (Biology preferred) or PE
24 points including 3 subjects at H4 including a science (Biology preferred)
Fitness, Health & Exercise or Applied Sports Science or Applied Sports & Exercise Science or Physical Activity & Health or Sports Therapy with B in the Graded Unit
SQA HND: Sport Coaching & Development with grade B
Access to STEM (BBB) or Access to Life Sciences (BBB) or Access to Humanities (BBB) or Access to to Health & Biological Science (BBB)
BBB (120 UCAS Tariff points) including 1 science subject (Biology preferred) and PE
Full T Level with Grade B (120 Tariff points) in relevant subject
30 points (136 UCAS Tariff points) with 3 subjects at H4, including English, PE and 1 science subject
Fitness, Health & Exercise or Applied Sports Science or Applied Sports & Exercise Science or Physical Activity & Health with A in Graded Unit
Sports Therapy or Fitness, Health & Exercise or Applied Sports Science or Applied Sports & Exercise Science or Physical Activity & Health with BB in Graded Units overall.
HNDs with two graded units (Mus have Bs with min.
4 points).
HND's with three graded units (5 points required (3 A's, 2 B's, 1 C).
Must have Bs in all level 8 Graded Units
Applied Sports Science or Fitness, Health & Exercise or Applied Sport & Exercise Science or Physical Activity and Health (with A in graded units) (For an HND with a double graded unit, applicants must have AA.
For an HND with a single graded unit, applicants must have A)
Discover more about our BSc (Hons) Sport and Exercise Science programme at UWS Lanarkshire Campus.
In this video you will hear from our academics, students and graduates and get to see some of our state-of-the-art facilities.
Craig Mowat , BSc (Hons) Sport & Exercise Science graduate, now Head of Academy Sports Science and Medicine at Motherwell Football Club
The UWS BSc (Hons) Sport and Exercise Science provides a broad understanding of the principles and application of sport science.
In years 3 and 4 students will have the opportunity to tailor their learning to their interests and career options, and complete a dissertation in their own area of interest.
In Year 1 you will develop a basic understanding of Sport Development, Sport Coaching and Sport and Exercise Science.
Subjects include: Introduction to Sport Coaching, Academic Skills for Sport and Exercise and Introduction to Sport Science.
In Year 2 you will develop your understanding of specific areas of sport and exercise science.
Subjects include: Principles of Sport and Exercise Physiology, Skill Acquisition and Sport and Exercise Nutrition.
In Year 3 you will study The Psychology of Sport, Sport Research and Evaluation, Being a Sport Professional, Physiological Adaptations to Exercise and Sport Conditioning and Biomechanics.
Optional modules include Measurements in Sport and Exercise or Physical Activity in Health.
This degree will be taught through a combination of learning methods including tutor-led lectures, tutorials and seminars, practical workshops and exercises in a simulated work environment, small group teaching and group project work.
Independent, online and peer-to-peer learning is an important element of this course.
Our Sport and Exercise Science degree uses a variety of assessment methods.
CAREERS
This programme will prepare you for a successful career in sport and exercise science.
Graduates have gone on to work in a broad range of roles , including:
As a sport and exercise scientist you could:
A number of graduates are successful in applying for further postgraduate study such as taught Masters (MSc) courses or research degrees (MRes, MPhil, PhD) in sport, exercise or health areas.
Alesha, Sport & Exercise student
The BSc (Hons) Sport Coaching focuses on the knowledge and skills required to become a coaching professional.
The BSc (Hons) Sport Coaching & Development focuses on the knowledge and skills required to become a coaching or sports development professional.
The BSc (Hons) Sport Development develops the knowledge and skills to enable you to work within the field of sport and physical activity development.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/sport-coaching:
CX6C
UWS’s BSc (Hons) Sport Coaching will help you develop the skills and expertise required to become a professional sports coach.
This degree has been developed in partnership with sports governing bodies, sporting organisations and coaching professionals to ensure that you develop knowledge and hands-on practical experience relevant to the modern sports, health and fitness industries.
Excellent industry connections provide work-based learning opportunities and offer links to attain coaching qualifications.
Hear more from current students, academics and industry partners (Video)
There is a strong emphasis on placement learning and developing the practical coaching skills.
We have excellent links with a number of clubs and organisations, including St Mirren Football Club, South Lanarkshire Leisure and Culture Trust and the Scottish Football Association, which provide work-based learning opportunities and offer you the opportunity to pick up professional coaching qualifications.
We also encourage you to identify organisations that you are interested in working with.
of students are satisfied with the teaching on the course (National Student Survey 2024)
of BSc Sport Coaching students are in work or study 6 months after completing their degree
24 points, including 3 subjects at H4 including a science or PE.
Coaching and Developing Sport; Sport Coaching & Development; Fitness, health and exercise; Applied Sports Science; Applied Sports and Exercise Science; Physical Activity and Health (for HNC with B in the Graded Unit)
Access to STEM or Access to Life Sciences or Access to Humanities with BBB grades - all Access awards to include passes in PE and English (or equivalent, eg Communication 4 & Literature 1, if achieved at SCQF Level 6)
BBB (120 UCAS Tariff points) including 1 science subject and PE
Full T Level with Grade M (120 Tariff points) in relevant subject
30 points (136 UCAS Tariff points) with 3 subjects at H4 including PE or a Science at H4
Coaching & Developing Sport or Sport Coaching & Development or Fitness, Health & Exercise or Applied Sports Science or Applied Sports & Exercise Science or Physical Activity & Health ( for SQA HNCs, with Grade A in the Graded Unit)
Sports Therapy (for SQA HNDs, with Grade B in the Graded Unit) or Applied Sports Science or Coaching & Developing Sport or Physical Activity and Health or Fitness, Health & Exercise Science or Sport & Sport Coaching & Development (for SQA HNDs with TWO Graded Units , CA/CB required) (for SQA HNDs with THREE Graded Units , CAA/CAB/CBB required)
Coaching and Developing Sport; Sport Coaching & Development; Fitness, health and exercise; Applied Sports Science; Applied Sports and Exercise Science; Physical Activity and Health (for SQA HNDs with TWO Graded Units , BB/BA/AB/AA) (for SQA HNDs with THREE Graded Units , BBB/BAA/BBA/AAA/ABA/ABB)
The programme is a structured, four-year full-time degree.
This degree has been developed to deliver up-to-date practical and professional skills, underpinned by appropriate academic theory and research skills, and to produce graduates that are prepared for employment or, if desired, further education (e.g., postgraduate study or industry training).
With its vocational and academic focus, the programme can provide a range of transferable skills that will not only prepare students for sport-specific employment, but also develop essential personal qualities and understanding necessary for modern, fast-moving, and diverse 21st century living and working environments.
Year 1 introduces students to core areas that inform coaching practice and follows a common structure with BSc (Hons) Sport Development; BSc (Hons) Sport and Exercise Science; and BSc (Hons) Sport Coaching and Development undergraduate programmes.
Modules include Fundamentals of Sport & Exercise, Coaching: Theory & Practice 1, and Physical Activity, Health & Fitness.
In Year 2 students undertake additional coaching modules with accompanying science-based modules to develop their understanding of the coaching process.
Modules include Sport and Exercise Experience (Placement), Coaching: Theory & Practice 2, Principles of Human Movement, Personal Training, and Psychosocial Aspects of Sport & Exercise.
In Year 3 students specialise in the sciences that underpin coaching and further their understanding of the broader context of coaching environments and interdisciplinary practice.
Core modules include Being a Sport Professional (Placement), Sport Research & Evaluation, Coaching: Theory & Practice 3, and Sports Conditioning & Biomechanics.
Optional modules include The Psychology of Sport, Social Issues in Sport, and Sport Performance Analysis.
In Year 4 students can tailor their learning to their interests and career options, with a range of optional modules, including Talent Development in Sport, Strength & Conditioning, Group Dynamics in Sport, The Female Athlete, Mental Health, Sport and Exercise, Field Trip, Injury Prevention & Reconditioning, and Applied Sport Psychology.
Students will also study core modules Coaching: Theory & Practice 4, and Sport and Exercise Dissertation.
Our Sport Coaching degree uses a variety of assessment methods.
Jeffrey Webster, BSc (Hons) Sport Coaching graduate, now a Sport Psychology Consultant
This programme will prepare you for a career in Sport Coaching.
UWS graduates are currently working with local authorities, sports clubs, sports centres , health promotion initiatives , and sport s governing bodies such as Netball Scotland or the Scottish Football Association .
Many UWS graduates have found employment in roles and activities, including:
Graduates will be able to pursue opportunities such as UWS's MSc in Sport Coaching, Physical Education teaching, and PhDs.
UWS Sport Coaching graduate, Eric Horsburgh, has secured a top soccer coaching job in Canada.
Eric, 23, who graduated in 2016 from the University’s Hamilton Campus has immigrated to Canada and has taken-up the post of Head Coach of the Northwest Academy Centres for the Vancouver Whitecaps FC.
Before moving to Canada in 2017, Eric volunteered as a coach at the Scottish Football Association and whilst at UWS, as part of his fourth year dissertation, worked as a football analyst for Motherwell FC’s U17 academy team.
The BSc (Hons) Sport & Exercise Science / Sport & Exercise Science (Physical Activity & Health) focuses on the science behind high performance sport.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/sport-coaching-development:
C621
Prepare for employment in the sports coaching and development industries with UWS’s BSc (Hons) Sport Coaching & Development.
This programme has been developed in consultation with sports industry partners to provide the knowledge and skills sought after by employers.
The applied nature of this degree leaves you well-equipped to work in the promotion and development of sports, or in the teaching and coaching of sport.
There is a strong emphasis on placement learning and developing the practical skills relevant to the modern sports coaching and development industries.
Excellent industry links provide work-based learning opportunities and offer links to attainment of coaching qualifications.
Students have undertaken placements with a wide range of sports coaching and development organisations in Ayrshire and beyond through our partnerships with local authorities, sports governing bodies, schools and professional and community clubs.
Our professional development modules also focus on the development of individual and transferrable skills preparing students for the workplace.
of research at UWS is classed as world-leading, internationally excellent, or recognised internationally (Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2021)
of BSc Sport Development students are in work or study 6 months after completing their degree
DDD (72 UCAS Tariff points) including a Science (Biology preferred) or PE
24 points, (3 subjects at H4) including a Science or PE
Sports Therapy or Coaching and Developing Sport or Sport Coaching & Development or Fitness, Health & Exercise or Applied Sports Science or Applied Sport & Exercise Science (with B in the Graded Unit)
Access to STEM or Access to Humanities or Access to Life Sciences or Access to Health & Biological Science (with grades BBB)
BBB (120 UCAS Tariff points) including Science and PE
30 points, (136 UCAS Tariff points) with 3 subjects at H4 including one Science, and English
Coaching and Developing Sport or Sport Coaching & Development or Fitness, Health & Exercise or Applied Sports Science or Applied Sport & Exercise Science or Physical Activity & Health (with A in Graded Unit)
Sports Therapy (with B in the Graded Units) or Applied Sports Science or Coaching & Developing Sport or Fitness, Health & Exercise or Sport Coaching & Development or Physical Activity & Health (CA/CB for HNDs with TWO Graded Units ) (CAA/CAB/CBB for HNDs with THREE Graded Units )
Applied Sports Science or Coaching & Developing Sport or Fitness, Health & Exercise or Sport Coaching & Development or Physical Activity & Health (BB/BA/AB/AA for HNDS with Double Graded Units ) (BBB/BAA/BBA/AAA/ABA/ABB for HNDs )with T hree Graded Units
Scott Frew , BA (Hons) Sports Coaching & Development graduate, now PE Teacher at Auchinleck Academy
The Sports Coaching and Development course was developed in consultation with national sport organisations, national governing bodies, national and local sport industry personnel and expert coaches.
This consultation process has resulted in a course that gives students many employment opportunities upon graduation.
In Year 1 you will develop an understanding of the Fundamental skills and knowledge required within the sports industry including physiology, anatomy, psychology, coaching, development, health and fitness.
You will also learn about general academic skills, embedding these skills within your studies and develop your personal and professional skills.
Year 2 will introduce you to core areas including coaching theory and practice, physical education, policy, psychological and sociological aspects of sport and exercise.
You will also undertake your first professional development module including your first placement within an area of the sports industry relevant to you.
Year 3 provides the opportunity to continue to engage in your key areas of interest and your career path within the second of your professional development and placement modules.
Understanding of contemporary issues in sport and exercise through coaching, physical activity, health and physical education will be enhanced through the application of theory and practice whilst also introducing you to key research methods.
In Year 4 you will consolidate your understanding of theory and practice within modules whilst also tailoring your studies to focus on your career path and preparation for graduation.
Topics include Global issues in sport development, coaching, adapted and inclusive sport and physical activity, outdoor sport, physical education, and applied sport psychology.
You will also complete a dissertation in an area of interest to you with the support of your supervisor.
This degree will be taught through a combination of learning methods including tutorials and seminars, workshops, practical sessions and exercises in a simulated work environment, small group teaching and group project work.
Our BSc (Hons) Sport Coaching & Development degree uses a variety of assessment methods to ensure authentic experiences of skills and tasks relevant to the sports industry.
These may include assessments such as:
This programme will prepare you for a successful career in sport coaching and development.
You could potentially pursue a career in the following areas:
Many graduates have gone on to complete postgraduate study, including Masters programmes and postgraduate diplomas in order to become qualified as Physical Education teachers.
UWS has partnered with the Scottish Volleyball Association to provide students industry-relevant coaching and development experience.
The partnership, which will initially take place at the University’s Ayr Campus within this programme, will provide students with an insight into the workings of a national governing body in sport, and provide real and relevant industry work experience.
Scottish Volleyball Association staff will work closely with the students across a range of modules, giving them the opportunity to progress along the coaching pathway.
As well as a host of coaching qualifications, students will also have access to work experience in community club and national team coaching settings.
Teaching staff at UWS will also work with Scottish Volleyball Development Officers to provide continuous professional development opportunities for coaches and volunteers.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/sport-development:
C600
The BSc Sport Development degree at UWS prepares you to drive positive social change through sport and physical activity.
You'll gain a solid foundation in sport development, learning how to promote social inclusion,  improve health, and engage communities.
With a global, interdisciplinary approach, the programme blends physical activity with insights from sociology, psychology, and business to address key social challenges such as reducing youth crime, addressing  health inequalities, and reducing educational attainment gaps.
This equips you to create adaptable, impactful initiatives across diverse cultural contexts.
Practical experience is central, with opportunities for work placements, internships, and community projects.
The diverse skill sets developed through the course allows graduates to pursue roles in community  sport management, sport and health policy advisory, event coordination, and grass-roots coaching.
Start your journey to transform lives through sport with UWS.
Study abroad is extremely beneficial to personal and professional development.
Research has shown that worldwide employers value graduates with intercultural awareness and global competences.
Our BSc (Hons) Sport Development students have completed successful exchanges with universities in the USA and Spain.
There is a strong emphasis on placement learning and developing the modern sport development industry.
We have excellent links with a number of clubs and organisations, including SPFL football clubs, Active Schools, and South Lanarkshire Leisure and Culture, which provide work-based learning opportunities.
We also encourage our students to identify organisations that can provide appropriate placement opportunities and that they are interested in working with as part of the course.
of students agreed staff are good at explaining things (National Student Survey 2024)
H3 H4 H4 H4 including a Science subject (Biology preferred) or PE
24 points including 3 subjects at H4 including a Science or PE
Coaching & Developing Sport or Sport Coaching & Development or Fitness, Health & Exercise or Applied Sports Science or Applied Sports & Exercise Science or Physical Activity & Health (with B in the Graded Unit)
Access to STEM or Access to Humanities or Access to Life Sciences with grade BB and PE, Communication 4 and Literature 1 units required at SCQF Level 6
30 points (136 UCAS Tariff points) with 3 subjects at H4, including PE or a Science.
Coaching & Developing Sport or Sport Coaching & Development or Fitness, Health & Exercise or Applied Sports Science or Applied Sports & Exercise Science or Physical Activity & Health with A in the Graded Unit
Sports Therapy (with B in the Graded Unit) or Applied Sports Science or Coaching & Developing Sport or Fitness, Health & Exercise or Sport Coaching & Development, or Physical Activity and Health (CA/CB for HNDs with 2 Graded Units ) (CAA/CAB/CBB for HNDs with 3 graded units).
SQA HND
Applied Sports Science or Coaching and Developing Sport or Fitness, Health & Exercise or Sport Coaching and Development or Physical Activity & Health (BB/BA/AB/AA for HNDs with a double graded unit) (BBB/BAA/BBA/AAA/ABA/ABB for HNDs with three graded units).
The UWS BSc (Hons) Sport Development provides a broad understanding of the principles and application of sport development.
In Years 3 and 4, students will have the opportunity to tailor their learning to their interests and career options, and complete a dissertation in their own area of interest.
This provides an overview of the academic study of sport.
You will be introduced to a range of interesting topics related to sport coaching, sport development, and sport & exercise science.
You will also develop generic study skills that you will use throughout your time at UWS.
You will develop your understanding of sport policy, and consider psychosocial aspects related to sport and exercise.
You will cover content related to sport event management and coaching theory and practice that you will utilise in your first industry partner placement.
You will begin to specialise in sport development, putting theory into practice.
You will study modules including social issues in sport, learn more about sport provision in schools, and be introduced to sport management principles.
You will also take part in your second placement with an industry partner and learn research skills that will prepare you for your Honours year.
You will consolidate the theory you have gained by completing modules covering global issues in sport development and sport business operations.
You also undertake elective modules related to your career plan, with options covering interventions in sport & physical activity; exercise referral in special populations; mental health & physical activity; and developing outdoor sport.
There is also the opportunity to undertake an applied international field trip.
You will also complete a final year dissertation in a sport-related topic of your choice.
Our BSc (Hons) Sport Development degree uses a variety of assessment methods.
Preeti Jassal, Marketing & Fundraising Manager, Scottish Sports Futures
The programme will prepare you for a successful career in sport development but also sport, leisure and education settings in general.
It will equip you with the knowledge and skills to find opportunities in a wide range of roles, including:
Many of our graduates go on to postgraduate courses in PE teaching, including the PGDE (Secondary) Physical Education and Postgraduate Certificate in Primary Physical Education at UWS Ayr, or the MSc Sport Coaching at UWS Lanarkshire.
Others take part in or lead funded research projects with partner organisations.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/business-enterprise-marketing-new-college-lanarkshire:
BA
1 year, full-time
N891
New College Lanarkshire: September 2025
Delivered via the Undergraduate School, the BA Business Enterprise and Marketing is a unique partnership between UWS and New College Lanarkshire.
The course has been designed to ignite your entrepreneurial spirit and equip you with the skills and knowledge needed to thrive in the dynamic world of self-employment or small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs).
This degree will provide you with the opportunity to develop your business acumen, so that you can turn your vocational passion into a thriving commercial business.
We believe that true success lies at the intersection of passion and profession.
The curriculum is designed to help you focus on your niche and home in on what makes your entrepreneurial journey uniquely yours.
You will graduate not only with a degree but with a portfolio of applied knowledge ready to make an impact.
The skills included in your degree reflect market expectations of a business degree and those of the Quality Assurance Agents (QAA), which oversees university degree programmes.
In this degree programme you will:
This course is aimed at those who are looking to thrive in the world of self-employment or small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs).
On completion of your degree, you may wish to study at postgraduate or master’s level at UWS in our business related programmes, either on a full-time or part-time basis.
On completion of this, you may even choose to study towards completion of a doctorate.
A pass in a relevant vocational subject, such as Beauty Therapy, Photography or Sport subjects.
HNDs from any other subject may be considered.
Applicants may be requested to provide a short statement outlining their future business plans, which this course will help achieve.
Applicants who hold alternative qualifications to HND may also be considered, provided that their qualification is at an equivalent level, subject to review.
For non-vocational HND subjects, a short statement may be requested outlining future business plans which this course will help achieve.
The following qualifications are not accepted:
The BA Business Enterprise and Marketing degree will provide you, as a student, with a range of formative and summative assessment opportunities.
This will include a range of group and individual reports, portfolios, debates and presentations and the development of podcasts and campaigns.
Assessments will enable you to showcase and develop other core and meta skills, including digital literacy, communication, initiative leading and creativity.
In the BA Business Enterprise & Marketing degree programme, you will delve into the principles of business creation and marketing, providing you with a strong foundation for establishing and managing your own business venture.
From understanding market trends to mastering start-up essentials, you will acquire the skills necessary to navigate a business setting.
The programme curriculum has been designed to keep you ahead of the curve, teaching you to anticipate changes, embrace challenges, and turn disruptions into opportunities.
From a leadership perspective, you will develop the skills required to drive positive change.
You will be introduced to the concept of corporate social responsibility and learn how to lead in a way that is adaptable, collaborative and beneficial for future generations.
In your first term of study, you will be introduced to a set of academic modules focused on developing your business acumen and entrepreneurial ability.
These modules will help you to better understand how to turn your specific vocational passion into a thriving commercial business.
If you are applying only to the BA Business Enterprise & Marketing programme, please apply directly.
Direct Application
If you are applying to more than one programme, please apply via UCAS.
Apply VIA UCAS
Do you have a question about applying to this course?
Get in touch, we're here to help!
E: ask@uws.ac.uk
T: 0800 027 1000 (UK)
T: +44 (0) 141 849 4101 (out-with the UK)

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/dental-nursing-new-college-lanarkshire:
B951
New College Lanarkshire: September
The BSc Dental Nursing is delivered via the Undergraduate School, a unique partnership between UWS and New College Lanarkshire.
The BSc Dental Nursing prepares potential graduates to begin the study of dental nursing as a discipline.
This is a full-time, 3-year UWS-approved programme of study, delivered at New College Lanarkshire (NCL), Coatbridge.
Students on the BSc Dental Nursing will study at the state-of-the-art dental facility at NCL Coatbridge campus and, as UWS students, will have access to UWS facilities.
UWS has experience of delivering a range of professional health programmes.
NCL has over 30 years of experience in offering dental nursing programmes nationally and internationally.
The course is designed to be practical in nature and up-to-date equipment, teaching methods and simulation facilities are used.
At the heart of the degree is a commitment to excellence in education and patient care.
You will be joining an award-winning learning community where you will be taught by experienced staff dedicated to providing personalised learning, guidance, and mentorship to help you thrive academically and professionally.
Dental nursing graduates can pursue roles as dental nurses in various settings including:
As a graduate of this course, you may also choose to pursue to further their education by enrolling in postgraduate programmes, such as a Master of Science (MSc) in Nursing, Master of Public Health.
By staying informed about industry trends, and networking with potential employers, dental nursing graduates can enhance their employment prospects and explore fulfilling career paths in the field of dental healthcare.
You will develop knowledge and skills related to the role of a dental nurse as you undertake the following modules:
You will also be required to complete supervised clinical placements to gain practical experience in a dental practice setting.
Following successful completion of Year 1, you will be qualified as a dental nurse and must register with the General Dental Council.
You will develop knowledge and skills as you undertake the following modules:
Supervised clinical placement will continue to develop practical experience in a dental practice setting.
Supervised clinical placement will continue to develop practical experience in a dental practice setting
If you are applying only to the BSc Dental Nursing programme, please apply directly to UWS.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/digital-development-new-college-lanarkshire:
1 year full-time
0613
Delivered via the Undergraduate School, the BSc Digital development degree programme is a unique partnership between UWS and New College Lanarkshire.
This cutting-edge programme is designed to provide you both with a solid foundation in theory, tools, and concepts as well as to acquaint you with the newest processes required for the ever-changing IT sector.
With the ability to specialise in two disciplines, namely, Software Development and Web Design, our programme ensures that you stay at the forefront of innovation, equipped with the skills and knowledge necessary to thrive in industry.
As well as establishing their own leadership in the software and mobile app industry, graduates from UWS/NCL BSc Digital Development programme have gone on to gain employment in industry-leading companies, including IBM, Leidos, Arnold Clark, and Edge Testing.
Software Development; Digital Design; Web Development.
The BSc Digital Development programme is predominately project-based, with an emphasis on problem-solving, project management, and innovative skills.
Though many assignments are individual, project work is designed to prepare you for the world of work, particularly in software development and web design environment.
Bringing together core modules covering key concepts for the contemporary digital world, this degree programme ensures that you will be well equipped with the skills and knowledge to confidently thrive in industry.
Moreover, you will have the opportunity to follow your passion within computing science by specialising in one of two disciplines: software development or web design.
Unleash your coding prowess and dive deep into the world of software development.
Our programme develops your expertise and skill to help you design, build, and maintain trustworthy software applications.
From fundamental programming languages to advanced software engineering principles, you'll gain hands-on experience in creating scalable and efficient solutions.
Craft captivating and user-centric digital experiences with our Web Design specialism.
Develop a keen eye for aesthetics and a solid understanding of user interface (UI) and user experience (UX) design principles.
From concept to execution, learn to create visually stunning and functional websites.
The emphasis is on advanced techniques in software and mobile app development as well as internet scripting.
You will also explore the key techniques of machine learning and develop your skills in project management and professional practices.
If you are applying only to the BSc Digital Development programme, please apply directly to UWS.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/collaborative-health-and-social-care-new-college-lanarkshire:
Delivered via the Undergraduate School, the BSc (Hons) Collaborative Health and Social Care is a unique partnership between UWS and New College Lanarkshire.
The award provides flexible learning opportunities for those who aspire to or currently work within health and/or social care and are wishing to develop their career further.
This programme will prepare you for a successful career as a Registered Adult Nurse within a hospital or community setting in the UK, EU countries, Canada and Australasia.
With further study, your career can progress to areas such as school nursing and health visiting.
Many graduates return to complete further study to enhance their career opportunities or improve their practice.
Careers can include:
In addition, this course will lead you into higher level qualifications at UWS such as:
HNC: Any subject
HND: Appropriate health or social care subject
This programme mirrors the increasingly intricate landscape within health and social care, providing you the opportunity to delve into the sector in response to shifting demographics and the integration of services.
You will learn about the complex and complimentary relationship between health and social care series, and how they can work together to improve and deliver high-quality services to those most in need.
The curriculum also acknowledges the transformation in services, both nationally and internationally, emphasising a move towards prevention, person-centred approaches, and the empowerment of individuals.
At the core of this degree is the appreciation for the pivotal role that all professional carers play in service delivery.
Nurturing students to take a value-based approach care in the community, this programme will help you develop transferrable, professional skills to meet the demands of the contemporary workforce.
Regardless of your future destination within the dynamic and evolving health and/or social care sector, you will cultivate professional knowledge and confidence, empowering you to effectively enhance outcomes for a diverse range of service users.
The BSc Collaborative Health and Social Care programme will provide students with a range of summative and assessment opportunities in a range of formats.
This will include end of module examinations, essays, the creation of case studies, presentations and reports.
In addition to an opportunity for you to demonstrate your subject knowledge and understanding, these assessments will also enable you to showcase and develop other core and metaskills, including communication, numeracy, adapting, initiative, collaborating and critical thinking.
If you are applying only to the BSc (Hons) Collaborative Health and Social Care programme, please apply directly to UWS.
Apply via UCAS
BSc (Hons) Collaborative Health & Social Care - UWS London and Paisley Campuses
0800 027 1000 (UK)
+44 (0) 141 849 4101 (out-with the UK)

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/cyber-security-new-college-lanarkshire:
BEng
2 years, full-time
I200
The BEng Cyber Security programme is delivered via the Undergraduate School, in a unique partnership between UWS and New College Lanarkshire.
Learn to protect and secure modern data infrastructure with the BEng Cyber Security degree.
You will develop industry relevant knowledge and skills based around the ethical hacking framework, underpinned by a thorough understanding of both networking (CCNA) and programming theory.
This programme has been devised to meet a growing need, as identified by the Scottish and UK Governments, for individuals who possess a skillset to meet the challenges posed by the constantly evolving computer systems.
The integration of academia and industry in the delivery of the programme ensures the currency of this innovative industry focused programme.
You will study a wide range of topics, including:
Cyber Security
This programme has strong industry links, including a programme of guest speakers, company visits and networking events with employers.
Work placement opportunities available through the University’s School of Computing, Engineering & Physical Sciences allow students to put theory into practice in real-world business environments.
In Year 2, you will study core modules covering Database Development, Operating Systems, Ethical Hacking: Tools & Techniques, and Linux: Tools and Administration and then take optional modules depending on previous studies and background.
These optional modules may include Programming for Cyber Security and further CCNA module.
In Year 3, you will study core modules including:
You will then undertake optional modules, again depending upon your previous studies and background.
These may include:
If you are applying only to the BEng Cyber Security programme, please apply directly to UWS.
BEng (Hons) / MEng (Hons) Cyber Security - UWS Lanarkshire Campus

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/social-sciences-new-college-lanarkshire:
36 weeks, full-time
Delivered via the Undergraduate School, the BA Social Sciences is a unique partnership between UWS and New College Lanarkshire.
Social justice, power and inequalities are the central themes of the BA (Hons) in Social Sciences.
The first two years of this programme equip you with a firm grounding in the essential disciplines of politics, policy and sociology.
After this, you can choose to follow one of three specialist pathways:
Investigating social and political change, you will explore both how we understand society and how we can change it for the better, developing your critical thinking alongside a wide range of research and transferable skills that are highly valued by the public, private and voluntary sectors.
Graduates from the BA (Hons) Social Sciences programme are equipped with highly sought-after skills, entering careers in:
You will be well positioned to undertake further study at Masters level, including UWS programmes such as:
Year 2 Entry: SQA HNC/BTEC Level 4 HNC: Social Sciences; Social Studies with B in Graded Unit SQA HND/BTEC Level 5 HND: Social Sciences; Social Studies
Year 3 Entry: SQA HND/BTEC Level 5 HND: Social Sciences; Social Studies with BB in Graded Unit
In addition, you will develop your research skills and knowledge to hone your research practice ahead of your final year dissertation.
You will be required to choose three modules from the following:
Designing Your Dissertation Project (core module) You will be required to choose two modules from the following:
*Please note that the selection of modules may occasionally change.
Social Sciences Dissertation (40 credits; Term 1 and Term 2)
Plus two modules from:
Social Sciences Dissertation (40 credits; Term 1 and Term 2) Plus two modules from:
If you are applying only to the BA Social Sciences programme, please apply directly to UWS.
BA (Hons) in Social Sciences - UWS Lanarkshire and Paisley campuses

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/clearing/guide-to-clearing:
During Clearing, a range of UWS undergraduate courses will be available for you to start your studies this September.
Whether you’re keeping your options open, have not met the conditions of your offer, or if you've changed your mind, our Clearing team are here to help you explore your choices.
Alternatively, you can call 0800 027 1000 or email clearing@uws.ac.uk
Clearing is a process that helps students find and apply for university courses that still have vacancies after the main application deadlines have passed.
You can apply through Clearing if:
How do I apply to UWS through Clearing?
Search our clearing course vacancies to see what is available
Once you have all the results of your qualifications you can get in touch with our Clearing team to apply:
Our Clearing team may be able to make you a clearing offer.
You’ll have some time to consider your offer, and we’ll give you a deadline to apply via UCAS.
We’ll provide you with details on how to complete the UCAS process.
6.
Attend one of our Clearing Welcome Sessions on campus or online
Keep up to date with your undergraduate application via the UCAS Hub .
It will be updated when a decision has been made on your application.
First, do not panic.
There are options available.
Do you still have questions or want to find out more about joining UWS.
Call 0800 027 1000 or email clearing@uws.ac.uk to speak to our team.
Secure your place at UWS

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/clearing/results-day:
The big day is here—your exam results are in!
Whether you’ve met your offer conditions, are exploring Clearing, or just need a bit of guidance, we’re here to help you navigate every part of Results Day with confidence.
From checking UCAS Track to understanding what to do if things didn’t go as planned, this page has everything you need to take the next step.
You don’t need to send us your results if you live in Scotland, England, Northern Island or Wales.
We receive them directly from the awarding body.
Please send us your results if you’re studying a different qualification such as an HNC/HND or are an EU/International student.
You should email a clear, high-quality copy along with a short covering note that includes your name and personal ID to: undergraduate@uws.ac.uk.
Just a heads-up: we can’t accept screenshots or downloads—make sure it’s an official copy of your results.
Once your exam results are in, UCAS Track is the place to check your offer status.
Met your conditions?
Great news!
We’ll confirm your place with UCAS, and they’ll update your offer status.
Didn’t quite meet the conditions?
Don’t worry—UCAS will let you know if you are able to apply through clearing and pass your results to your insurance choice, who’ll take it from there.
Congratulations on securing your place at UWS, we’re so excited to welcome you to campus!
We’ll be sending you your Final Certificate of Acceptance soon- it confirms your place and includes everything you need to know about registering as a student.
If things didn’t go to plan, don’t worry—Clearing might be the perfect opportunity.
We may still have spaces available on some of our courses.
Every year, lots of students find a course they love through Clearing!
Here’s what to do:
You may receive a verbal offer over the phone when you call us.
You now have your place at University!
You can accept this offer from your UCAS account after 5pm on Results Day.
Secure your place at UWS through Clearing
Clearing can feel like a bit of an emotional rollercoaster.
Don’t worry, we’re here to guide you through the process, giving you the information and advice you need.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/clearing/clearing-faqs:
Our Clearing team are available Monday to Friday between 9am and 4.45pm.
Call us on 0800 027 100 or email us clearing@uws.ac.uk
The Clearing hotline opens in July, and our team are available Monday-Friday from 8.45am to 4.45pm, with extended hours around SQA results days.
Search our list of courses available in Clearing.
Read about the programme and what you’ll study and make a note of the UCAS code.
Clearing opens on 5 July 2025 and runs until the end of September.
You can apply straight away if you already have your qualifications.
Complete our UWS Clearing Form .
UWS course availability can fill up quickly, so get in touch as soon as you can.
Absolutely.
Get in touch with our Clearing team and they can check your eligibility and talk you through the process.
Yes, please complete our UWS Clearing Form or call our team on 0800 027 1000
If your results are better than expected and you now want to change universities and you are holding a firm unconditional place, you can release yourself into Clearing from 5 July 2025 .
Use the ‘decline your place’ button in your application.
Only use this button if you no longer wish to take up your place at your firm choice, and you have spoken to your university or college and/or an adviser at your school/centre.
You can.
As soon as you get your exam results you can use Clearing to find a place on a course that’s caught your attention and has vacancies available.
Just remember, you’ll still need to meet the Clearing entry requirements that apply.
If you’re 21 or over, then you’re classed as a mature student.
You’ll still be able to apply to UWS through Clearing.
Call our clearing team on 0800 027 1000 or complete our UWS Clearing Form .
Our team can discuss what’s available and give advice on next steps.
You can find Clearing entry requirements in our course vacancy listings.
UWS accepts a variety of qualifications, including HNC, HND and BTEC, as well as considering work-based learning and work experience for those who have been away from study for a longer period.
Call us now on 0800 027 1000 , or email clearing@uws.ac.uk
We offer university on campus accommodation on our Ayr and Paisley campuses.
Yes, you can.
We advise you get in touch Student Awards Agency Scotland (SAAS) to check your eligibility.
For those joining us from the England, Wales, Northern Ireland please contact:
England – Student Finance England
Northern Ireland - Student Finance NI
Wales- Student Finance Wales
Do you still have questions or want to find out more about joining UWS through Clearing?
Get in touch today and find out more about applying.
Phone: 0800 027 1000 (UK) or +44 (0) 141 849 4101 (out-with UK)

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/clearing/advice-for-parents-and-guardians:
Clearing is an opportunity for students to secure a place at university if:
Clearing opens on 5 July 2025 and closes on 25 October 2025 .
Students can contact our Clearing team on 0800 027 1000 .
They will be able to advise students of the best options and how to apply.
Students need to have their UCAS ID Number (if relevant) and their Clearing number on hand.
Find out what courses your child is interested in and make a list, including entry requirements and the Clearing telephone number.
You’ll be able to see what’s available in Clearing from 5 July 2025 .
Having everything on hand on the day will help to make the process smoother.
Remember to include grades, personal details, and a notepad for any questions.
We’ve pulled together a handy checklist for Clearing to help make sure everyone is prepared.
Open Days are a great opportunity to find out what life at the university is like.
They offer the chance to meet the team and fellow students.
Campus tours are a great alternative when you are unable to make it to an Open Day.
Remind them that it's okay to take some time to work it all out and that there are options available.
Phone: 0800 027 1000 (UK)
or +44 (0) 141 849 4101 (out-with UK)

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/part-time-study:
Studying part-time at UWS lets you get ahead in your career at the same time as getting on with your life.
You can choose from a wide range of modules in a number of disciplines, working towards an undergraduate, postgraduate or postgraduate research degree.
If you want to improve your career prospects, part-time learning is a great way to increase your earning potential by developing or updating your knowledge and skills in a subject you are passionate about.
If you are interested in undedrtaking short courses at UWS please take a look at our CPD website:
UWS Continuing Profesional Development (CPD) website
With part time learning you will complete modules and meet the same requirements as full-time students.
You will attend lectures and tutorials at one of our four campuses in the west of Scotland and submit coursework and sit exams alongside your full-time student colleagues.
The rest of your learning is independent, directed study which provides a lot of flexibility and means you decide when you want to study.
Part-time learning is flexible and it will be up to you how quickly you decide to complete your studies.
Our education guidance advisers can help you decide how many modules/credits is right for you.
You will attend lectures and tutorials on campus or online alongside your full-time student colleagues, and complete coursework in your own time.
Coursework is submitted electronically and module exams are completed at same time as full-time students
Taught, academic modules at UWS are typically worth 20-credit points each.
Other module arrangements exist eg.
10-credit points and 60-credit points.
Full-time students normally complete six modules per year (120 credits) but this is flexible for part-time students
Part-time students typically pay tuition fees on a pro rata basis, paying up-front for each module.
This helps students to spread the cost of part-time learning and allows you to control the pace of your studies.
Undergraduate – £305-£2560 Postgraduate – £600-£3035
These fees are dependent upon your tuition fee status and also upon your chosen course of study.
You are directed to look at the corresponding (undergraduate or postgraduate) course page for details of modular study tuition fees.
Health-related and credit-bearing modules (again both undergraduate and postgraduate level) are listed on the dedicated Health-related modules webpage .
Eligible students may also be able to access discretionary funding to help with other costs such as books, travel and childcare.
Find out more about fees and funding.
As a leading provider of professional education for the health sector, UWS has Service Level Agreements (SLAs) in place with some Health Boards to provide nursing and health-related modules and programmes at the University of the West of Scotland.
You need to apply to your employer to request SLA funding each academic year – funding is only granted for one academic year at a time.
Once approved by the SLA lead at your Health Board, they will inform UWS to exempt the appropriate tuition fee.
Please visit the appropriate intranet site for your Health Board for further information.
Note that the Health Boards normally open up their SLA funding application system around March/April each year for the next academic year ie the September that year, through to the August the following year.
Most Health Boards also have closing dates, so please check out your NHS-Health Board intranet site for more information to avoid disappointment.
We currently have agreements in place with the following Health Boards:
View our Health-related modules
Find out more about applying for part-time study at UWS.
A step-by-step guide to applying for part-time study at University of the West of Scotland.
There are a range of funding options and support packages available to part-time Scottish students studying at UWS at undergraduate level.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/continuing-professional-development-opportunities:
With a growing catalogue of courses suited to a variety of industries, the UWS Centre for Continuing Professional Development offers an unparalleled learning experience for all.
The Centre has a wide range of career-focused continuing professional development (CPD) courses starting September 2025.
View our CPD Courses
UWS offers Skills Scholarships that entitle eligible applicants, who are enrolling for the first time at UWS, to study their first CPD module for free.
There has never been a better time to study one of our of industry-relevant CPD modules.
Our September offering spans the following areas:
•    Digital & IT •    Strategy & Business •    Environment & Sustainability •    Education & Society •    Media & Creative
As one of Scotland’s leading career-focused universities, UWS has an impressive track record of working with private, public and third sector organisations – nationally and internationally - to fulfil the training and development needs of their employees.
The Centre for Continuing Professional Development also has a strong history of working closely with individuals to realise their career ambitions through the provision of flexible, innovative professional courses.
All of our courses are delivered by academic experts in their field, many of whom are internationally renowned for their work.
This helps us achieve our goal of enabling organisations and their people to develop and enhance professional knowledge and skills in the ever-changing world of work.
We offer an extensive suite of continuing professional development courses that reflect global priorities for a future-proof workforce.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/english-language-courses/english-language-online-courses:
UWS offers English Language Online Courses (ELOC) as well as on-campus courses for students who have been unable to take the IELTS (or equivalent) during the application period.
ELOCs are intensive English language courses for students who need to improve their English language and study skills prior to enrolling on their chosen degree programme at UWS.
The courses are designed to help you achieve the University's English language entry requirement for degree level study (IELTS 6.0 overall, with no component lower than 5.5).
If you have any queries please contact us at englishlanguage@uws.ac.uk
The ELOCs are designed to deepen your knowledge and understanding of the English language to help prepare you for full-time studies at UWS.
The courses have a number of key features including:
There are two versions of ELOC running this summer; 5 week and 10 week duration.
Entry to these depends upon your level of English language competence when applying.
We provide a full-time programme of tuition and language practice to help you prepare for your studies at UWS.
The course covers:
Our online teaching software platforms and technologies (Microsoft Teams, Zoom and interactive ebooks) will enable you to join a virtual classroom for the live sessions.
You will be able to send messages and files, interact via audio and video link, and work in groups on shared notebooks.
We have taken different time zones into account when planning the schedule for the live sessions.
Each version of the course involves a combination of number of hours direct teaching and self-study per week covering a total of 25 hours effort hours.
These are estimated as follows:
Whilst some minor alterations are possible, the following table outline the expected daily breakdown and activity timetable for each course:
MONDAY
TUESDAY
WEDNESDAY
THURSDAY
FRIDAY
CHINA TIME
1600 - 1900
UK TIME
0900 - 1200
During the courses, you will develop a portfolio of work, including assignments and project work, to evidence your progression.
You will also be assessed through regular English language tests in all language skills.
To pass the course, and to proceed to your main degree programme, you must achieve a level comparable to IELTS 6.0 overall, with no less than 5.5 in any skill.
Download details of our full-time, part-time tuition fees for Bachelor, Masters, Research, modular and English Language pre-sessional courses for sessions 2023-24 for students wishing to study at one of our campuses or online.
For specific queries related to your application for this course, please contact us at: englishlanguage@uws.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/english-language-courses/english-language-for-university-study:
English for University Study is an intensive course designed for students who need to improve their English over an extended period of time before enrolling on a degree programme at UWS.
The course is designed to improve your English language skills, prepare you for academic study and introduce you to living in the UK.
This course can be offered both on-campus (Paisley) or online.
Dates are still to be confirmed for the academic session 2025/26.
You can join either version of the course if you have an appropriate level of English Language skills and competence at entry (see below).
The course will be delivered by qualified and experienced lecturers from the School of Education.
It will include general English, academic English and study skills to prepare you for academic study, and an introduction to living in the UK.
Course content includes:
Classroom work will include group discussions, presentations, listening, reading and writing exercises, and work on structures of the English language.
Classes are small, usually with no more than 20 students.
You will have to do regular independent work to consolidate what you have learnt in class and to prepare for classes.
You will also have regular one-to-one tutorials to discuss your progress and any additional support you may need.
41-week course - £5660
27-week course - £8060
Course assessments will include written assignments and presentations as well as tests of reading, writing, listening and speaking.
At the end of the course, you must achieve a level of IELTS 6.0 overall, with no component below IELTS 5.5, in order to be able to proceed to your main degree programme of study.
The UWS Languages Centre is an open-access learning centre equipped with individual student PCs and group work areas; it is available for all English language students.
You can also use all the study facilities of the main University Library.
During the course, there will be opportunities to participate in a vibrant social programme with events both on and off campus and excursions to explore the landscape and heritage that Scotland has to offer.
This will enable you to meet new people, broaden your horizons and practise English outside the university campus environment.
Social activities are often free of charge, but sometimes there may be a small fee.
41-week course
International English Language Test System (IELTS): 4.0 in all four components
27-week course
International English Language Test System (IELTS): 4.5 overall, with no component below 4.0.
For the online version of the English for University Study (ELUS) course(s), no Visa is required.
For the on-campus version of either ELUS course, a Visa is required.
If you require a visa to study in the UK please visit our Visas, Immigration & ATAS section .
For specific queries related to your application for this course, please contact us at englishlanguage@uws.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/english-language-courses/pre-sessional-english:
Pre-sessional English is an intensive English language course for students who need to improve their English language and study skills prior to enrolling on their chosen degree programme at UWS.
It is designed to help you achieve the University's English language entry requirement for degree level study (IELTS 6.0 overall, with no component lower than 5.5).
UWS offers both on-campus and online pre-sessional courses.
Click below for information about online pre-sessional courses.
English Language Online Courses
Pre-sessional courses are held during the summer, and at various times during the academic year.
Courses last for five weeks or ten weeks, depending on your existing level of English.
Each course comprises 15 hours of instruction and ten hours of directed independent study per week.
Courses are delivered by qualified and experienced lecturers from our School of Education and Social Sciences.
The focus of courses is to build on your existing English language skills to prepare you for all aspects of academic study, including:
Pre-sessional English courses will also develop your cultural awareness and introduce you to living in the UK.
Our taught classes are interactive and communicative to build your confidence when using English.
Classes are small, usually with no more than 20 students per group.
Independent learning is an essential part of university study, and the hours of directed study will help you develop this skill.
You will also attend focused one-to-one tutorials to discuss your progress and any additional support you may need.
During the course, you will develop a portfolio of work, including assignments and project work, to evidence your progression.
The UWS Languages Centre is an open access learning centre equipped with individual student PCs and group work areas; it is available for all English language students.
During the course, there will be opportunities to participate in a vibrant social programme with events both on and off campus and excursions to explore Scotland.
International English Language Testing System (IELTS) - IELTS for UKVI (UK Visas and Immigration) Academic: 5.0 overall, with no component below 4.5.
International English Language Testing System (IELTS) - IELTS for UKVI (UK Visas and Immigration) Academic: 5.5 overall, with no more than one component at level 5.0.
Students may also receive an offer to enter the course after taking the UWS English Language Test .
For more information about UWS English Language Requirements see below:
Social activities are normally free of charge.
However sometimes there may be a small fee.
If you require a visa to study in the UK, please visit our Visas, Immigration & ATAS section .
For specific queries related to your application for this course, please contact us at:
englishlanguage@uws.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/apply-to-study:
There's still time to apply to one of our career-focused programmes.
If you are applying to study from the UK or Republic of Ireland, select a link below to start your application process and begin your educational journey with UWS!
For all UCAS listed Undergraduate degree courses.
Note some courses may require direct application:
Apply through UCAS
For an overview of UWS visit our UCAS profile page:
UWS UCAS Profile
Postgraduate Taught, Postgraduate Research, Full-time, Part-time
POSTGRADUATE Direct application
If you are a current UWS student you can apply for Postgraduate study via our Fast Track application.
All others should apply for Postgraduate via direct application.
Fast-track Postgraduate
Continuing Professional Development (CPD), Graduate Apprenticeships and some Undergraduate programmes require a direct application to UWS.
If you are applying to study from abroad, please use our direct application.
INTERNATIONAL Direct application
International students CAS Application deadlines for Term 2 (January 2025) admission to UWS:

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/inspiring-students:
With over 120 years of experience, UWS offers a wide range of career-focused, industrially-relevant degree programmes.
UWS is one of the UK’s most innovative modern universities, and with more than one century of academic experience and expertise, our courses prepare you for the real-world.
The stories below are inspirational stories of just some of our amazing students and show how UWS has changed their lives, and can change yours.
Student Peter Cartwright had been exposed to the issue of mental health from a young age and decided this was the profession for him.
Why study sport at UWS?
Michael Gallacher is the perfect person to ask that question – he’s done it twice!
When you ask David Fallon, the new Head of Development for Scottish athletics, about his most important career decisions, he immediately takes you back to his choice to study at UWS.
When you ask John McVeigh, what the best thing about studying at UWS is, he’s very clear on his answer.
“It’s the people,” he says.
A chance conversation with her line manager led Andrea Boyd back to study after a break of 20 years.
Andrea, a Practice Development Occupational Therapist took the leap to progress her career.
BSc (Hons) Sport Development graduate and Team GB Para table tennis player, Martin Perry, prepares for the 2021 Tokyo Olympic and Paralympic Games.
A passion for helping young people find their own voice saw David Brady quit his Business Analyst job to return to full-time education in order to help them move ahead in their lives.
Alwell Maduakolam is an international student who studies MSc Public Health at the University of the West of Scotland.
He’s found out that there’s much more to University life in Scotland than study…
When homecare worker Lynn Greenlees decided to start going to her local gym, she never imagined it would reignite her passion for exercise, and help kickstart a new career.
Alwell Maduakolam, from Nigeria, is a member of the Student Social Media Team at UWS, studying MSc Public Health and sharing useful tips on life as an international student.
Mature student, Matt Bradbury, is pursuing a career change; undertaking UWS’s BSc (Hons) Mathematics with Education degree.
BSc (Hons) Biomedical Science graduate Kirsty McCallum is carrying out PhD research to find out why chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
Louise Jackson was working full-time before many of her peers had even finished their training after completing the accredited BSc (Hons) Applied Biomedical Science.
Franklin wanted to combine his interest in biology with his fascination for forensics.
This led him to UWS, and its unique BSc (Hons) course in Applied Bioscience with Forensic Investigation.
After completing his part-time BSc (Hons) Chemistry, Andrew Fraser now works in medicinal chemistry, researching cures for neglected diseases: working on African sleeping sickness and leishmaniasis, among others.
UWS has welcomed its first cohort of students onto the new BSc Paramedic Science programme in partnership with the Scottish Ambulance Service.
Cecilia Chaine has benefited from undertaking the University’s MSc Waste & Resource Management, recently landing the post of KTP Associate in a UWS/Restructa Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP).
Most people would think taking on a Masters workload would be quite enough for one year, but not Emily Moffat, who is graduating from our MSc Advanced Biomedical Science programme in 2021.
MSc Biotechnology graduate Dr.
Md.
Rashedul Islam has travelled all over the world to gain his academic awards, and it was the booming global population and subsequent demand for food, fuel, disease-free life, safer agriculture and a clean and green environment that sparked his interest in the...
Martin Bell is a BSc Computer Games Development student at UWS.
He’s written this blog post explaining how is his course is making his dreams a reality.
Paisley-based student Edmund Abekhe is hoping to build a successful career in the engineering industry thanks to the University’s career-focused Mechanical Engineering degree.
Callum Russell has seen his career take off since undertaking the University’s BEng (Hons) Chemical Engineering.
Former University of the West of Scotland international student, Steve Wilson has advanced his career thanks to the University’s accredited MSc Quality Management.
MSc Project Management graduate Amina Mehmood has secured her dream role as a Lecturer at UWS thanks to her studies at the University.
Katy Beckett is a Quality Supervisor who has emabarked on a UWS Graduate Apprenticeship (GA) in Engineering Design & Manufacture.
BEng (Hons) Civil Engineering graduate Jack Sloss turned his teenage fascination with bridges and buildings into a successful career as a civil engineer.
Radoslaw Lewandowski has completed his Graduate Apprenticeship (GA) in IT: Software Development with Arnold Clark working in the Digital Solutions Team.
Max Blanchflower is benefiting from studying the UWS GA in Civil Engineering whilst working in a full-time post as a Trainee Site Engineer at George Leslie Ltd.
Kirsty Smith is a full-time post as Technical Officer / Engineer at Ayrshire Roads Alliance (ARA) who has started studying the UWS GA in Civil Engineering.
Jennifer Kelly is advancing her career at Visual Management Systems (VMS) thanks to University of the West of Scotland’s Graduate Apprenticeship (GA) in IT: Software Development.
Michael Sinclair has been with Ferguson Marine in Port Glasgow for eight years and is currently employed as a Project Manager.
Global engineering firm Atkins – Member of the SNC Lavalin group, is seeing the benefit of work-based learning first-hand – with five UWS Graduate Apprentices currently working from their Glasgow HQ.
Darryl Stevenson secured a top graduate post with BT thanks to the University’s career-focused approach to teaching.
After undertaking her first degree and deciding on a change in career path, the University’s MSc Information Technology seemed like the perfect choice to Chloe Whitfield.
Sony Thomas advanced his career in computer systems thanks to the University’s accredited, MSc Advanced Computer Systems Development.
When it came to deciding where to study her Masters course UWS was an easy choice for international student, Leonie Sijtsma.
Making a career change can be a daunting prospect but Constance Farrell found the transition from being a nurse to studying the University’s popular MSc Advanced Computing an easy one thanks to UWS.
Shona McCrea, Trainee Site Engineer at GRAHAM, is benefiting from undertaking a Graduate Apprenticeship (GA) in Civil Engineering at University of the West of Scotland.
David Sinclair is advancing his career at SAS International thanks to University of the West of Scotland’s Graduate Apprenticeship (GA) in Business Management.
Jamie Arnott, Graduate Engineer at Wallace Stone, has advanced his career thanks to UWS's Graduate Apprenticeship (GA) in Civil Engineering.
MSc Quality Management graduate, Jodi Roberts, is hoping to take her career to the next level thanks to her time at UWS.
When mature student Lisa McLaren decided to return to education, she knew what she wanted to do: help young people.
Christopher Rowney is a third year BA Childhood Studies student.
He shares his thoughts on returning to university after a break from studying, after doing so himself.
Carol Munro’s career has taken a few twists and turns over the years and when she was looking for her most recent qualification, there was only one place to study – UWS.
Raghav Venkatesh was looking for a career change.
In India he had completed his undergraduate degree in law and was working as a corporate lawyer there too.
When it comes to discussing the University’s Professional Doctorate (DProf) programme, who better to speak to than one of its first graduates, Gareth Evans?
Alistair Mack is studying on UWS’s Graduate Apprenticeship (GA) in Early Learning & Childcare while also working full-time in an Early Childcare Centre (ECC).
At UWS, we are so proud of our students and the impact that they have in their chosen fields.
One such student is Jye Mee Chong who studies on our Graduate Apprenticeship in Early Learning and Childcare.
Meg Montague is a student at the University of the West of Scotland’s highly regarded MA Broadcast Journalism programme.
She’s written this blog post sharing top tips about what she’s learned during her studies.
Heather Beattie graduated with a BA (Hons) in Business, and now works at UWS as a Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) Associate.
Glasgow filmmaker, Chris Bogle benefited from studying University of the West of Scotland’s popular MA Filmmaking programme, recently being selected to participate in Scottish Film Talent Network’s 2019/20 Scottish Shorts programme.
Harvey Gardner has always dreamt of a career in the film industry and with the help of University of the West of Scotland’s MA Filmmaking programme he hopes to make this dream a reality.
French filmmaker, Aislinn Belot benefited from undertaking University of the West of Scotland’s popular MA Filmmaking programme.
Rabia Arshad is a PhD student studying at the UWS London campus.
She has written this blog post outlining her experiences of online learning.
Every year, thousands of students from across the world choose to study in London, and follow their “London Dream”.
Meg Montague is an MA Broadcast Journalism student at UWS.
Recently, she had the opportunity to speak to Isla Todd, a graduate of the course who now works as a reporter for BBC Scotland’s 'The Nine'.
UWS Digital Marketing student Ellie Lees had a lucky start to her course - but is now on the way to an exciting career...
Akindele Oluseyi Matthews came to UWS from Nigeria, to study Broadcast Journalism – he's sharing his favourite Scottish foods, that fellow international students really should try...
George Kaniyarasseril Joseph is a MA Broadcast Journalism student at UWS.
He’s originally from India, and writes about how Scotland – and UWS – has become his home away from home.
Karen Black, MSc Contemporary Drug & Alcohol Studies graduate took her career to the next level at UWS, completing her Masters.
When you think about work environments where mindfulness and compassion are high on the agenda, you might not immediately think of transport safety.
But that’s what Hannah White is trying to change.
Morgan McLeod is a Social Sciences student.
She writes about her experiences of studying in the USA, as part of her time at UWS.
Support from the UWS careers team helped Natalie into her ideal role
Jennifer Kelly is advancing her career thanks to a UWS Graduate Apprenticeship (GA) in IT: Software Development.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/postgraduate-course-search/teaching-english-to-speakers-of-other-languages-tesol:
MEd
1 year full-time, up to 3 years part-time
The MEd Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL) is intended those who want to teach English as a second, foreign or additional language either here in the UK or internationally.
It will equip you with all of the relevant and practical teaching competencies to become a TESOL professional.
It will improve your global citizenship skills and instill you with an increased awareness of issues related to English language, learning and teaching.
HEAR FROM OUR ALUMNI
Do not worry if your qualifications are not listed here, we take a range of factors into account when assessing your application.
We're happy to consider other alternative combinations of qualifications and experience
If you are applying with an EU or non-EU qualification, please check our Postgraduate Entry Requirements page .
This page gives more information about country-specific entry requirements.
You should hold an Undergraduate degree and either be a practising teacher of TESOL or intend to enter the profession.
Exceptions may be made if you can demonstrate significant relevant experience together with recent academic study.
You’ll study six modules and complete a dissertation over the course of this programme.
Core modules are:
You will also complete two optional modules, to be selected from the following list:
Following this you’ll complete a dissertation, the title of which will be discussed and agreed with your dissertation supervisor.
Your supervisor will support you throughout this process.
You will be taught by a combination of direct, face-to-face teaching and online input through our Virtual Learning Environment.
Formative and summative assessments will be used including:
The MEd TESOL allows you to develop your own practical teaching skills.
It provides ​opportunities to work directly with ESOL learners from the local community and receive feedback on your teaching skills.
You will also have opportunities to observe experienced TESOL practitioners in action.
This course also gives you the option of taking a language module.
This is studied as an 'extra' module, it does not count towards your degree.
The cost of your language module is not included in the tuition fees (£100 for 20 credit module and £50 for 10 credit module).
For those with no previous experience in TESOL, this qualification increases employment opportunities in a wide range of TESOL contexts all over the world.
Many of our TESOL graduates are able to find work as English language teachers, and put the knowledge and skills gained on the MEd to good practical use in this way.
For those who already have practical teaching experience, the theories and concepts presented on this course provide a deeper understanding of some key issues shaping the TESOL profession.
It allows them to progress their careers in areas such as TESOL management, teacher education, and further academic study, for example, at doctoral level.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/business-management-graduate-apprenticeship:
4 years, full-time company-based learning and online modules
Not applicable
Online: September
Future-proof your workforce and talent pipeline with UWS’ innovative Graduate Apprenticeship (GA) in Business Management.
Our Business Management GA has been developed in collaboration with industry leaders to support aspiring business managers and leaders to develop the essential skills and knowledge needed to underpin business growth, innovation and increased productivity.
Our Graduate Apprenticeships (GAs) provide a fully funded pathway for individuals to a achieve a degree or for organisations to invest in the talents of their workforce
Get in touch with our team
The programme has been designed in partnership with employers to ensure that it delivers the skills, knowledge and understanding required by business managers and leaders now and in the future.
Apprentices apply their learning in their professional practice from Day 1, working on real-time projects that create a tangible benefit for the business.
Online delivery, by industry experts, complemented by on-campus workshops and work based learning enables learners to balance their work, study and personal commitments.
Apprentices tailor their own learning by studying core modules (e.g.
operations management and fundamentals of leadership) to acquire a broad understanding of the subject area, as well as selecting options (e.g.
business enterprise creation and ethical leadership) which reflect their own operational roles and business priorities.
UWS Link Tutors help apprentices to integrate their learning into their workplace and support the delivery of the work-based learning modules.
Delivered from our award-winning Lanarkshire campus using modern teaching practice with blended learning, industry led projects and innovative work-based assessment that balance theory with day-to-day professional practice in the workplace.
Which facilitates recognition of prior industry experience and qualifications.
At UWS we recognise relevant qualifications and industry experience and will consider advanced entry into Year 2/3 for appropriate candidates.
The benefits of apprenticeships are significant, but don't take our word for it.
Hear from one of our employers, Sharon Blyfield OBE and apprentice Atlanta and discover the power of apprenticeships at UWS.
Sharon Blyfield OBE Head of Early Careers and Apprenticeships Coca-Cola Europacific Partners
Graduate Apprenticeships are built on a partnership between employers, apprentices and UWS enabling students to align their learning with their workplace activities and apply their new skills and learning in a professional environment from Day 1.
To do this, apprentices are supported by a dedicated UWS Link Tutor and a Workplace Mentor will work together to maximise the opportunities to accredit the learning taking place in the apprentices’ workplace activities.
As a result, Graduate Apprentices are uniquely placed to integrate their academic skills, knowledge and practices with their workplace practices contributing to increased productivity and business growth.
Natalie MacKenzie, one of our Graduate Apprentices on the BA (Hons) Business Management, is employed with S & C Engineering:
Louis McGuire (GA Business Management) currently working for DHL said:
work-based learning
Understanding and Skills
To apply for a GA, applicants must meet SAAS eligibility criteria .
GAs are open to both existing employees and new recruits.
Applicants will be required to provide evidence of employer support during the application process.
An appropriate Foundation Apprenticeship, Modern Apprenticeship or HNC/D award with the level of entry and/or credit awarded being subject to the content of the programme.
Applicants may also be considered with other academic, vocational or professional qualifications deemed to be equivalent.
All applicants must be in employment (minimum of 21 hours per week) in a role related to the course of study, must have the right to live and work in Scotland and be working in Scotland.
You can apply if you are aged 16 or over and there is no maximum age limit.
The employer must commit to providing a suitable workplace environment and to offering guidance and mentoring support to the apprentice with the appointment of a work-based mentor.
A Tripartite Partnership Agreement must be signed by the GA student and employing organisation prior to the commencement of the programme.
The GA in Business Management has been developed in partnership with industry to ensure that the learning is aligned to business needs.
The course fully embraces the principles of Work-Based Learning.
It is delivered over four years and apprentices undertake 120 credits per year (three terms per year).
Work-Based Learning and Work-Based Assessment strongly underpin the course.
Apprentices are taught by our GA teaching team of subject-matter experts from the School of Business and Creative Industries who deliver modules through personalised tuition, support, and feedback.
Our team of dedicated UWS Link Tutors are also on-hand to help apprentices to integrate their learning into their workplace and support the delivery of the work-based learning modules.
Core Modules:
Optional modules:
For individuals and organisations who wish to find out more about the Graduate Apprenticeship BA (Hons) Business Management, please contact our dedicated team:
apprenticeships@uws.ac.uk
You can also get in touch directly with Usman Ahmad, Industry Engagement Manager:
Usman.Ahmad@uws.ac.uk
Applicants must meet all of the following:
In addition, you must have employer support to:
If you do not meet the eligibility criteria above, please explore our extensive range of career-focused undergraduate degrees and continuing professional development opportunities .
Please complete the form below and submit as a supporting document as part of your application.
EVIDENCE OF EMPLOYER SUPPORT
Apply Directly to UWS

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/business-and-project-management-graduate-apprenticeship:
Future-proof your workforce and talent pipeline with the UWS sector leading Graduate Apprenticeship (GA) in Business and Project Management.
The GA in Business and Project Management is brand new for 2024 and has been developed in collaboration with industry leaders to develop aspiring Project Managers who possess with the essential skills and knowledge needed to navigate large-scale and intricate projects across diverse sectors.
Creating limitless opportunities, it serves as a driving force to broaden your talent pipeline and unlock unparalleled professional development.
Our Graduate Apprenticeships (GAs) provide a fully funded pathway for individuals to a achieve a degree or for organisations to invest in the talents of their workforce.
The programme has been designed in partnership with employers to ensure that it delivers the skills, knowledge and understanding required by a Project Manager now and in the future.
Apprentices embark on an educational journey where they integrate their learning into professional practice from Day 1.
Engaging with real-time projects, they actively contribute to enhanced productivity, generating tangible and immediate benefits for the business.
Leveraging the flexibility offered by online delivery - by highly experienced academics and industry experts - complemented with on-campus workshops to preserve a work-life balance.
In Years 1 and 2, apprentices will study core management principles to acquire a broad understanding of the subject, alongside bespoke project management topics.
In years 3 and 4, the focus is on project management specialisms which align with apprentices’ operational roles and business priorities.
(self-management, social intelligence and innovation) - apprentices develop these additional skills and competencies through their academic studies and daily work-based experiences and are better equipped to successfully manage their future personal and professional lives.
At UWS we recognise relevant qualifications and industry experience and offer advanced entry into Level 9 (Year 3) for appropriate candidates.
To achieve this, apprentices are supported by a dedicated UWS Link Tutor and a Workplace Mentor who will work together to maximise the opportunities to accredit the learning taking place in the apprentices’ workplace activities.
academic skills
productivity and business growth
The GA in Business and Project Management has been developed in partnership with industry to ensure that the learning is aligned to business needs.
It is delivered over four years and apprentices undertake 120 credits per year (three trimesters per year).
Apprentices are taught by our GA teaching team of subject-matter experts from the School of Business and Creative Industries and School of Computing, Engineering and Physical Sciences who deliver modules through personalised tuition, support, and feedback.
For individuals and organisations who wish to find out more about the Graduate Apprenticeship BA (Hons) Business and Project Management, please contact our dedicated team at:
Contact our team

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/data-ai-and-software-engineering-graduate-apprenticeship:
4 years full-time, work-based learning and online modules
Online with optional face-to-face learning
Online (optional face-to-face sessions): September
The BSc (Hons) Data, AI and Software Engineering* (Graduate Apprenticeship) programme is designed to integrate academic excellence with practical industry experience, ensuring you are well-prepared for a successful career in software development or related fields.
Whether you are an employer looking to upskill your talented staff, an experienced computing or software professional seeking formal qualifications, or someone who wishes to gain a qualification while they work and earn, this programme is tailored to meet your needs.
The programme has undergone a major update for 2024, with the goal of further aligning the soft, hard, and meta-skills learned with the demands of the software industry.
It starts by providing a solid grounding in computing and software development in the first years, followed by offering options that allow you to choose topics aligning with your interests and employer needs.
The programme uses blended learning, minimal exam-based assessment, and combines rigorous academic theory with practical experience, ensuring you are equipped with the knowledge and skills needed to excel in the workplace.
You will attend University classes (either online, or with the option to study on-campus) one day per week across all three terms.
By blending online learning with optional on-campus sessions, we aim to provide you with the best of both worlds - comprehensive, flexible education that fits around your professional and personal commitments.
*BSc (Hons) IT Software Development was recently renamed BSc (Hons) Data, AI and Software Engineering to better reflect the content of the degree.
The programme has been designed in partnership with employers to ensure it delivers the skills, knowledge, and understanding required by software professionals, both now and in the future.
We cover relevant and recent topics such as DevOps, Data Science, Machine Learning, and more, ensuring you are well-equipped to succeed in the industry.
The programme is designed to offer a comprehensive blended learning experience.
Learning materials will be made available in advance through our Virtual Learning Environment, and classes will primarily take place online.
For some classes, you will have the option to either study online or attend on-campus sessions at our stunning Lanarkshire Campus.
This is to foster a community of like-minded learners and to provide you with opportunities to meet your lecturers face-to-face.
Apprentices embark on an educational journey, where they integrate their learning into professional software practice from their first day.
Engaging with real projects, they actively contribute to their workplaces, generating tangible and immediate benefits for the business.
All modules taught will include formative and summative assessments, such as case studies, reports, online discussion boards, quizzes and more.
They are designed to evaluate your understanding, provide continuous feedback, and enhance your learning experience by applying theoretical knowledge to practical scenarios.
Critical Thinking, Problem-Solving, Communication, and Lifelong Learning are just a few of the meta-skills you will gain while undertaking this programme.
Throughout your studies, you will build additional skills and competencies through your academic coursework and daily work-based experiences.
This will equip you to successfully manage both your future personal and professional lives.
Flexible entry facilitates recognition of prior industry experience and qualifications.
At UWS, we recognise qualifications and industry experience.
We offer advanced entry for candidates with the relevant qualifications.
Please get in touch for further information.
Initially, graduate apprentices work in job roles such as Systems Administrator, IT Helpdesk Specialist, Junior Developer, Software Tester, or Systems Support Analyst.
After successfully completing the programme, they often advance to more senior roles such as Senior Software Developer, DevOps Specialist, Software Architect, and beyond.
They leverage their acquired skills and experience to excel in leadership positions within the software industry.
As an apprentice on the BSc (Hons) Data, AI and Software Engineering programme, you will be in relevant employment.
The GA will build on your existing employability skills.
Graduate Apprentices are productive members of their companies from an early stage.
Your learning will be integrated with your workplace activities your learning and skills will be applied in a professional environment right from day one.
As a Graduate Apprentice you will be uniquely placed to integrate your academic skills, knowledge and practices with workplace practices.
To achieve this you will be supported by a dedicated UWS Tutor and a Workplace Mentor, who will work together to maximise the opportunities to accredit the learning taking place in your workplace activities.
The GA provides a thorough grounding in the principles of programming and associated software engineering approaches, and develops the lifelong learning skills that you will need to stay abreast of the rapidly evolving technologies in software development.
Radoslaw Lewandowski, who is a graduate of IT Software Development* and holds the post of Associate Software Engineer at Arnold Clark.
*IT Software Development was recently renamed Data, AI and Software Engineering to better reflect the content of the degree.
Hear from one of our students, Jamie Lough, and discover the power of apprenticeships at UWS.
Jamie Lough, Software Developer/Service Desk Analyst, Genius People
To apply for a GA, applicants must meet Student Awards Agency Scotland (SAAS) eligibility criteria .
GAs are open to existing employees and new recruits.
All applications are considered on an individual basis.
Do not worry if your qualifications are not listed below.
We take a range of factors into account when assessing your application.
We're happy to consider other alternative combinations of qualifications and experience.
Experienced applicants can apply for admission based on Accreditation of Prior Learning / Accreditation of Prior Experiential Learning in accordance with the University’s Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) guidelines guidelines.
All applicants should be in employment and be supported by their employer for the duration of their studies.
Considering the relevance of the programme to industry, applicants can apply for admission based on Accreditation of Prior Learning / Accreditation of Prior Experiential Learning in accordance with the University’s Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) guidelines.
Advanced entry in Years 2 to 4 of the programme will be considered on an individual basis.
This may be possible if you possess an HNC/HND or BSc degree in a suitable discipline or relevant professional qualifications or experience.
Please contact us for more details.
In all cases, the University’s RPL and APEL guidelines will apply.
The BSc (Hons) in Data, AI and Software Engineering is a graduate apprenticeship programme developed in partnership with industry, the education sector, and Skills Development Scotland (SDS).
This collaboration ensures that the curriculum aligns with industry needs.
Students participating in the apprenticeship have access to the same learning opportunities and support as those in traditional full-time university programmes.
Across the three terms each year, you will typically split your time by spending about 80% working at your job and 20% developing additional hard, soft, and meta-skills required for software professionals through university studies.
Your employer will provide the necessary time for study as part of your work schedule.
One of the key benefits of a graduate apprenticeship is the immediate application of learned skills.
Skills acquired in the workplace can be applied to university tasks and assessments, and topics studied at university can be embedded into your day-to-day work.
Lecturers will ensure that there is a range of collaborative elements and opportunities for students to share their experiences.
This ensures that everyone in a class learns about software practices in a range of sectors and organisations, allowing for the exchange of ideas, insights, and best practices.
This programme is delivered over four years, the same duration as traditional full-time undergraduate Honours programme.
You will undertake 120 study credits per year (three terms per year).
Work-based learning and modules covering industry-relevant topics form the backbone of the course.
Term dates and assessment schedules will be provided in advance to support you in managing a balanced work-study-life schedule.
The programme is structured over four years of study, each year building on the previous one.
The programme is delivered through blended learning, with the majority of the learning delivered through Work-based Learning.
Students are expected to be on campus for a day every 1 to 2 weeks for facilitated workshops and practical sessions to reinforce their online e-learning and workplace experiential learning.
Assessment is through a number of methods including:
For individuals and businesses who wish to find out more about the BSc (Hons) Data, AI and Software Engineering Graduate Apprenticeship, please contact:
Dr Jacob Koenig, Programme Leader:
jacob.koenig@uws.ac.uk
Usman Ahmad,  Industry Engagement Manager:

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/engineering-design-manufacture-graduate-apprenticeship:
4 years, full-time company-based learning (with part-time attendance at UWS - typically 1 day every week/fortnight)
The UWS Graduate Apprenticeship BEng (Hons) Engineering Design & Manufacture effectively combines university education with work-based learning.
Students attend UWS one day per week, while workplace learning makes up over a third of the degree.
The programme, which is taught by expert academics, emphasises advanced design and manufacturing concepts.
These include CAD, prototyping, simulation, and digital manufacturing.
The programme also covers  covers essential management, data analysis, and quality assurance skill-building aspects.
With a progressive approach to syllabus design, the curriculum incorporates key areas such as AI and the fusion of digital and manufacturing technologies, ensuring graduates gain real industry-relevant expertise.
Students receive dedicated support from lecturers and a work mentor both on campus and in the workplace.
Additionally, the programme features minimal assessment, focusing instead on industry-led projects and practical learning to develop essential problem-solving and research skills.
Andrew Begg, Engineering Design & Manufacture Graduate, Technical Services Engineer at Newsprinters
Muhammad Ayat, BEng (Hons) Engineering Design & Manufacture Programme Leader
To apply for a GA, you must be resident in Scotland before you start.
The premises you work in must also be located in Scotland.
As part of your application, you will have to show that you have the right to live and work in Scotland.
All applicants are considered on an individual basis.
Do not worry if your qualifications are not listed here.
We take a range of factors into account when assessing your application and are happy to consider other alternative combinations of qualifications and experience.
Experienced applicants can apply for admission based on Accreditation of Prior Learning / Accreditation of Prior Experiential Learning in accordance with the University’s RPL guidelines.
Contact us for more information.
For Advanced Entry apprentices are required to have completed a relevant MA or have a minimum of 1 year of sector specific work experience at a level equivalent to the point of entry.
Applicants can apply for admission based on Accreditation of Prior Learning / Accreditation of Prior Experiential Learning in accordance with the University’s RPL guidelines.
Contact us for more information
This GA in Engineering Design & Manufacture is a Work-based Learning course which has been developed in partnership with Industry, the education sector and Skills Development Scotland (SDS).
This ensures that graduate learning is aligned to Industry needs.
This course fully embraces the principles of Work-Based Learning.
It is delivered over four years and you will undertake 120 credits per year (three trimesters per year).
Work-based learning and work-based assessment will form the backbone of the course.
The programme is delivered through blended learning with the majority of the learning delivered through Work-based Learning.
Students are expected to be on campus for a day every 1-2 weeks for facilitated workshops and practical sessions to reinforce their online e-learning and workplace experiential learning.
Case Studies Coursework Dissertation Laboratory write-ups Multiple choice exams Online discussion boards Oral presentations Posters Reports Written examinations
For individuals and businesses who wish to find out more about the BEng (Hons) Engineering Design & Manufacture Graduate Apprenticeship, please contact our dedicated team at:

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/civil-engineering-graduate-apprenticeship:
4 years, full-time company-based learning (with in-person attendance at UWS Paisley Campus required – typically 1 day every week).
The UWS Graduate Apprenticeship BEng (Hons) Civil Engineering emphasises work-based learning, with typically one day per week in-person attendance at UWS Paisley Campus.
This accredited degree by the Joint Board of Moderators (JBM), including major engineering institutions, meets academic requirements for registration as an Incorporated Engineer (IEng) and partly fulfils the academic criteria for Chartered Engineer (CEng) status.
Covering core Civil Engineering subjects, the Graduate Apprenticeship empowers apprentices to contribute effectively to planning, designing and executing Civil Engineering projects.
The curriculum emphasises the development of professional skills like teamwork, critical thinking, and creativity, aligning with the Skills Development Scotland Civil Engineering framework.
Hear from one of our students to discover the power of Graduate Apprenticeships at UWS.
Luke Stanley, Civil Engineering GA student
This degree is accredited by the Joint Board of Moderators (JBM) comprising the Institution of Civil Engineers, Institution of Structural Engineers, Institute of Highway Engineers, the Chartered Institution of Highways and Transportation and the Permanent Way Institution on behalf of the Engineering Council for the purposes of partially meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered Engineer (CEng).
See the Joint Board of Moderators for further information and details of further learning programmes for CEng.
Full-time BEng (Hons) Civil Engineering (Graduate Apprenticeship) students starting their studies in September 2025 are eligible to apply for an Institution of Civil Engineers (ICE) QUEST Undergraduate Scholarship.
Successful applicants receive up to £8,000 over the course of their studies and paid work placements every summer.
For more information visit the Institution of Civil Engineers' website .
Apprentices enrolled in the BEng (Hons) Civil Engineering program leverage their existing employability skills through relevant employment.
The Graduate Apprenticeship (GA) integrates learning with workplace activities right from the beginning, enabling apprentices to apply their skills in a professional setting.
This programme uniquely combines academic knowledge with practical workplace practices.
The course uses industry projects, various assessment methods including face-to-face examinations.
Students receive support from lecturers, a personal tutor, and a workplace mentor.
Graduate Apprenticeships are available to current employees and new hires.
All applications are individually evaluated.
If your qualifications are not listed, various factors are considered including alternative combinations of qualifications and experience.
Experienced applicants should also apply Accreditation of Prior Learning/Experiential Learning will be used to review application.
The GA will have entry points at Years 1, 2 and 3 of each academic year.
Entry qualifications for the Graduate Apprenticeship (GA) require residency in Scotland before starting, with both your residency and workplace located in Scotland.
All applicants must be in employment and be supported by their employer for the duration of their studies.
For Advanced Entry, apprentices are required to have completed a relevant MA or have a minimum of 1 year of sector specific work experience at a level equivalent to the point of entry.
Applicants with HNC and HND qualifications will also be considered for advanced entry.
This course fully embraces the principles of work-based learning.
It's delivered over four years, with option for advanced entry depending on prior qualifications and experience.
You will undertake 120 credits per year (three trimesters per year).
Work-based learning and work-based assessment will be the basis of the course.
The programme is delivered in a face-to-face format with the majority of learning delivered through work-based learning.
Students are typically expected to be on campus for one day every week during term time for facilitated workshops and practical sessions to reinforce their learning and workplace experiential learning.
For individuals and organisations who wish to find out more about the Graduate Apprenticeship BEng (Hons) Civil Engineering, please contact our dedicated team:
You can also get in touch directly with Dr Alrazi Earij, BEng (Hons) Civil Engineering (GA) Programme Leader:
Alrazi.Earij@uws.ac.uk
You can also get in touch with Usman Ahmad, Industry Engagement Manager:

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/town-planning:
4 years, full-time company-based learning (with part-time attendance at UWS required 1 day every week in addition to online learning activities)
This Workplace Learning programme, which follows the same format as a Graduate Apprenticeship , is designed to enhance town planning and management competence focusing on enhancing employability prospects by equipping learners with practical skills and knowledge.
This degree is tailored for those already working within relevant environments, providing the town planning expertise needed to effectively and efficiently manage their roles.
The curriculum builds on specialised skills and knowledge students have developed during their employment, offering a seamless integration of academic learning with real-world application.
With forward-looking core modules across the programme, graduates are prepared to tackle contemporary planning challenges.
The programme emphasises employability, industry engagement, and a pathway to professional accreditation, making it the ideal choice for shaping sustainable, vibrant communities and advancing your career.
Please note: as BSc (Hons) Town Planning is a Workplace Learning programme you need to be working in Scotland in a position that relates to the field of study and have support from your employer to undertake the course in its entirety.
The benefits of a Workplace Learning degree are significant but don’t take our word for it.
Hear from one of our students to discover the power of Workplace Learning programmes at UWS.
Ryan Hardy, Town Planning student
Graduates of this programme are well-prepared for diverse roles in the public, private, and third sectors, contributing to sustainable urban and environmental development across the UK and internationally.
Graduates may pursue advanced study or research in fields such as urban regeneration, sustainable development, GIS, and environmental policy, enhancing their expertise and career prospects.
Throughout the programme, you will explore six key themes essential to planning and the built environment:
These themes provide a comprehensive understanding of sustainable development, urban design, strategic impact assessment, and stakeholder collaboration.
Together, these modules equip you with the knowledge and skills to address real-world challenges, create inclusive communities, and contribute to developing resilient, well-designed urban and rural spaces.
The programme is delivered through blended learning with the majority of the learning delivered through Work-based learning.
Students are expected to be on campus for one day every week during term time for facilitated workshops and practical sessions to reinforce their online e-learning and workplace experiential learning.
For individuals and organisations who wish to find out more about the Workplace Learning BSc (Hons) Town Planning, please contact our dedicated team:
You can also get in touch directly with Dr Sohail Ahmad, BSc (Hons) Town Planning Programme Leader:
Sohail.Ahmad@uws.ac.uk
You can also contact Usman Ahmad, Industry Engagement Manager:

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/operating-department-practitioner-graduate-apprenticeship:
3 years, full-time work-based learning and online modules
Fully online
N/A
The UWS BSc Operating Department Practitioner Graduate Apprenticeship mirrors contemporary Operating Department practice.
It places a strong emphasis on experiential learning to ensure that graduates possess the requisite knowledge and skills to deliver safe, effective, person-centred care in the 21st century.
This is a three-year, full-time study programme.
Students will spend four days per week in clinical practice with one day learning online.
This degree aims to prepare Operating Department Practitioners who will be equipped to practice in dynamic, multidisciplinary settings and able to demonstrate competence in the provision of high standards of safe, effective, individualised and patient focused care during anaesthesia, surgery and post-anaesthesia care.
Get in touch with our dedicated team at apprenticeships@uws.ac.uk
Passes in the Scottish National Qualifications in five subjects, including three at higher level.
Applicants with equivalent/non-standard qualifications (including Foundation Apprenticeships, Modern Apprenticeships, SVQs/ NVQs, HNC, HND and access programme will also be considered.
For those applicants who do not meet our Standard Entry Requirements, applications may be considered on an individual basis from those who possess a minimum of one years’ relevant work experience and meet the previous DipHE entry criteria (Passes in the Scottish National Qualifications in five subjects including two at higher level or equivalent).
Four passes in GCSE / GCE in four subjects including one at A level
All students must be in full-time employment with an individually contracted Health Board.
You must be able to provide evidence of managerial support to complete the full programme through online and work-based learning – including the provision of placements and to support programme completion.
To meet the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC, 2022) requirements for accreditation, all candidates must be able to communicate in English to the Standard equivalent to Level 7 of the International English Language Testing System (IELTS), with no element below 6.5.
Entry to the programme will be subject to satisfactory assessment.
Throughout your 3 years of study, you will combine theory with work-based learning.
You will gain experience a variety of different placements including scrub and circulating, anaesthetic and post anaesthetic care.
Specialities, such as shared airway, emergency and dual life, also form part of the programme.
This programme will prepare you for a successful career in Operating Department Practice.
You will graduate with enhanced employability skills in the context of a dynamic and evolving healthcare system.
Registered ODPs work in a range of settings such as operating theatres, outpatient departments, endoscopy clinics and accident and emergency.
For individuals and Health Boards who wish to find out more about the BSc Operating Department Practitioner (Graduate Apprenticeship), please contact our dedicated team at apprenticeships@uws.ac.uk
For more information on application requirements, interview preparation, and training pathways, refer to the  following resources:
All Operating Department Practitioner training posts will be advertised via participating NHS boards.
Applicants cannot apply direct to the university and must have secured a training post prior to application.
Below is an overview of the three participating regions and the NHS boards under each, along with key details  to help you navigate the application process:
East Region
North Region
West Region

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/early-learning-and-childcare-graduate-apprenticeship:
3 years, full-time, work-based learning (with part-time attendance at UWS - typically 1 day every week)
Future-proof your workforce with UWS BA Early Learning and Childcare Graduate Apprenticeship.
Developed in response to 'A Blueprint for 2020: The Expansion of Early Learning and Childcare (2017)' and Skills Development Scotland’s 'Skills Investment Plan for Scotland’s Early Learning and Childcare sector (2017)', the GA offers a work-based learning route to developing qualified and competent Early Learning and Childcare practitioners.
Hear from one of our graduates, Kim Goldie and discover the power of apprenticeships at UWS.
Kim Goldie Early Learning and Childcare Policy Officer South Lanarkshire Council
The programme has been designed in collaboration with subject experts from across the sector, Scottish Government and Skills Development Scotland to ensure that the programme meets both employer and student expectations.
Apprentices apply their learning in their professional practice from Day 1, engaging in practice-based learning in an Early Learning & Childcare setting.
The programme combines work-based learning and academic study – both on campus and online - to develop apprentices’ knowledge and skills, enabling them to become effective, high quality practitioners.
Apprentices develop these additional skills and competencies through their academic studies and daily workplace experiences and, as a result, are better equipped to successfully manage their future personal and professional lives.
Successful completion of the Graduate Apprenticeship leads to registration as a Practitioner with the Scottish Social Services Council (SSSC).
Apprentices are supported by a dedicated team of lecturers, Workplace Mentors and Academic Tutors to support their learning both on campus and in the workplace.
Delivered from our award-winning Lanarkshire campus using modern teaching practice with blended learning, apprentices develop a critical and reflexive approach to work-based practice.
which facilitates recognition of prior industry experience and qualifications.
One of our employer partners - South Lanarkshire Council - explains how Graduate Apprenticeships have made a real difference to their staff and service delivery.
To do this, apprentices are supported by a dedicated team of lecturers, Workplace Mentors and Academic Tutors to support their learning both on campus and in the workplace.
As a result, Graduate Apprentices are uniquely placed to integrate their academic skills, knowledge and practices with their workplace practices becoming qualified and competent Early Learning and Childcare practitioners and contributing to the develop of best practice for the benefit of the children and families in their setting.
Some of our recent apprentices share their stories and the impact the Graduate Apprenticeship programme has had on them.
To apply for a GA you must be resident in Scotland before you start and meet SAAS (Student Awards Agency Scotland) eligibility criteria.
Find out more on the SAAS eligibility and application process .
All applicants must be in employment (for a minimum of 21 hours per week) in a role related to your course of study.
As part of your application, you will have to demonstrate that your employer supports your application.
Experienced applicants can apply for admission based on Accreditation of Prior Learning / Accreditation of Prior Experiential Learning in accordance with the University’s RPL guidelines - contact us for more information.
Applicants require to be in employment in an early years setting.
The Graduate Apprenticeship BA Early Learning and Childcare is a Work-based Learning course which has been developed in partnership with the Early Learning and Childcare sector and Skills Development Scotland (SDS).
This ensures that graduate learning is aligned to the ongoing needs of the sector.
It is delivered over four years and apprentices will undertake 120 credits per year (three trimesters per year).
Work-based learning and work-based assessment strongly underpin the course.
This will include the use of the UWS virtual learning environment, and tutor/apprentice led discussion, lectures, tutorials, apprentice-led seminars, group-work, role-play, presentations, workshops, problem-based learning, and work-based learning.
Personal Development Planning (PDP) is central to the programme, beginning with apprentices identifying and developing goals for their own learning and development.
This will be evidenced in their Individual Learning Plan (ILP).
All summative assessments are graded and marked by academic members of UWS staff.
For individuals and organisations who wish to find out more about the Graduate Apprenticeship BA Early Learning and Childcare, please contact our team:
You can also get in touch directly with Joyce Leslie, BA Early Learning & Childcare Graduate Apprenticeship Programme Leader: Joyce.Leslie@uws.ac.uk
You can also contact Usman Ahmad, Industry Engagement Manager: Usman.Ahmad@uws.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/social-work-graduate-apprenticeship:
Blended: September 2025
The BA (Hons) Social Work UWS Social Work (Graduate Apprenticeship) offers a new pathway into the social work profession, designed to meet the evolving needs of both aspiring social workers and employers.
The programme is designed to equip students with the knowledge, skills, and ethical grounding necessary for professional practice, aligned with the Standards in Social Work Education.
Over the four years on the programme, students will progressively develop competence and readiness for real-world social work roles.
This degree is designed for those already working in a social care or social work environment, providing a flexible and supportive route to qualify as a social worker while staying in paid employment.
Graduate Apprenticeships are built on a partnership between employers, apprentices and UWS.
This enables you to align their learning with their workplace activities and apply your new skills and learning in a professional environment from day 1.
As a result, Graduate Apprentices are uniquely placed to integrate their academic skills, knowledge and practices with their workplace practices contributing to increased benefits for communities.
The applied knowledge and specialist skills developed throughout the programme are key attributes sought by social work employers, and therefore opportunities for career advancement will open up upon graduation.
The BA (Hons) Social Work (Graduate Apprenticeship) has been developed in partnership with industry to ensure that the learning is aligned to an organisation's needs.
The course fully embraces the principles of work-based Learning.
Work-based learning and Work-based assessment strongly underpin the course.
Apprentices are taught by our GA teaching team of subject-matter experts from the School of Education and Social Sciences who deliver modules through personalised tuition, support, and feedback.
Year 1 of the programme introduces students to foundational knowledge, such as the history, organisation and role of social work services in contemporary society, as well as introductions to psychology, sociology and social policy for social work.
The aim here is to give students an introduction to social work anchored by a solid foundation in social science before building on this with more specialist social work modules in Year 2.
Modules covered in Year 1 are:
Year 2 of the programme will focus on building critical knowledge and developing specialist professional skills in preparation for practice.
Core dimensions of critical reflection, effective communication, and application of theory to practice are explored across social work specific modules.
There is a focus here on developing professional identity and starting to engage with people who use services (for example, the module Responsivity in Practice is largely facilitated by service users and organisations, and students have opportunities to interact, build core skills and co-produce knowledge within a classroom environment).
Modules covered in Year 2 are:
Year 3 of the programme will focus on the student transition to practice.
This transition begins with active engagement in simulated practice scenarios across Term 1 as part of a single 60 credit module: Advanced Skills.
In this module students have the opportunity to work collaboratively with each other and with experts from practice to apply their knowledge and skills to a range of real-world situations they will encounter during their formal practice learning opportunities.
The module aims to prepare students for placement in Term 2 of Year 3.
This will be an 80-day practice learning opportunity where students are required to evidence all Standards in Social Work Education and Ethical Principles (SSSC, 2019) and where they will consolidate their learning from years 1 and 2 by applying specialist knowledge and skills in a real practice environment.
Modules covered in Year 3 are:
Year 4 of the programme will commence with the final placement for the apprentice.
This will be a 100-day practice learning opportunity, and as with the first placement, students will again evidence all Standards in Social Work Education and Ethical Principles (SSSC, 2019) as well as demonstrating readiness for practice by their critical application of specialist (and now advanced) knowledge and skills in professional practice settings.
Students also engage with a 'capstone' research-based assessment that links their knowledge with their practice experience through the production of an academic poster and assignment providing an in-depth desk-based study of their practice setting.
Students at this stage also engage in activities designed to prepare them for employment as professional social workers, including an assessment connected to identifying ongoing professional development needs in the form of an Individual Learning Plan.
Embedded in Year 4 will be a transitions curriculum to support GA preparation for the Newly Qualified Social Worker (NQSW) Supported Year in Practice.
This will be done by dedicating sessions to introduce final year students to the Core Elements that all NQSW’s will be required to evidence in their first twelve months as a registered social worker.
All activity in Year 4 will be covered in a single 120 credit module covering the entire academic year.
The aim here is to end the programme with a fully integrated learning experience for students where theory, knowledge, skills and practice come together to form a unified consolidation of four years’ worth of study in preparation for the professional workplace.
The module covered in Year 4 is:
The social work team embraces an active approach to teaching and learning, building development around critical reflection, abstract conceptualisation, and practical application of theory.
Methods include case studies, problem-based activities, skills simulation, flipped classrooms, group presentations, and enquiry-based learning.
The hybrid approach also helps prepare students for working in agile environments and developing digital literacy skills.
The team embraces a compassionate, strengths-based approach to assessment and feedback.
Apprentices will engage with a wide range of assessment types in a process of continuous assessment throughout the programme, designed to meet diverse learning needs.
You will receive continuous feedback throughout the year, both formative and summative.
This includes oral feedback in class (in-person and online), personal feedback in tutoring sessions, written feedback on VLE platforms, team feedback (midpoint placement reviews), and tailored feedback directly on assignments.
The approach focuses on "feeding-forward" to help with future improvements.
Admissions Criteria
Candidates must be able to satisfy the general admission requirements of the University of the West of Scotland as specified in Chapter 2 of the University Regulatory Framework together with the following programme requirements:
SQA National Qualifications:
Standard Entry Requirements: BBBB plus English and Maths at National 5 Grade C or equivalent (Int 2 Maths and English C or above) Standard Grade Maths and English Grade 1 or 2 only)
Minimum entry Requirements: CCCC plus English and Maths at National 5 Grade C or equivalent (Int 2 Maths and English C or above Standard Grade Maths and English Grade 1 or 2 only)
Or GCE A Levels
SQA HNC/HND / BTEC Level 4:
All HNCs and HNDs must include Maths and English at National 5 Grade C or equivalent and must have achieved minimum of B in graded units.
International Baccalaureate (IB) Diploma: 24 points (to include 2 Higher subjects at 4 points plus Mathematics and English at Standard Level Grade 5 or above).
International Baccalaureate (IB) Diploma: 28 points for consideration to second-year entry (to include 2 Higher subjects at 4 points plus Mathematics and English at Standard Level Grade 5 or above).
Articulated entry: For entry into Year 2 (Level 8) of the GA pathway through RPL, applicants must have a HNC/HND or relevant degree in social care, social services or other relevant discipline, such as social sciences.
All HNCs require an A in the Graded Unit.
All HNDs require a minimum of B/A in graded units.
All HNCs and HNDs must include Maths at National 5 Grade C (SCQF Level 5) or equivalent.
Applicants without the Maths requirement will be able to sit a numeracy test mapped against SCQF Level 5 to ensure that Scottish Requirements for Social Work Education (SSSC, 2024) are met.
For entry into Year 2 (Level 8) of the GA pathway through APEL, applicants will produce evidence to show how they have met learning outcomes for Year 1 (Level 7) through their prior learning and work experience.
This will be done through a written submission mapped to learning outcomes and by a Structured Professional Discussion which involves a presentation by the applicant on the skills and knowledge they bring from work experience, their reasons for applying, and how they plan to balance competing demands of academic and professional commitments during the course of the programme.
Capacity in literacy will be assessed through their written submission.
As with the RPL process, applicants will be able to sit a numeracy test mapped against SCQF Level 5 to ensure that Scottish Requirements for Social Work Education (SSSC, 2024) are met.
Due to the nature of the programme structure and placement requirements of the social work education accrediting body, candidates are not eligible for articulation beyond level 8.
Other Required Qualifications/Experience All GA students must have a contract of employment (minimum of 21 hours per week) and approval from their employer to apply for the programme.
All social work students must be registered with the SSSC as social work students and maintain this registration for the duration of study.
English language proficiency is a requirement, with candidates expected to achieve IELTs average standard of 7.0.
Students cannot transfer into this programme without satisfying the programme entry requirements.
As above, all GA students must have a contract of employment and approval from their employer to apply for the programme.
Transfers from other GA programmes will be at the discretion of the Programme Leader.
Students must disclose any previous convictions during the application process.
Students must disclose any current criminal charges or convictions during study to the programme leader immediately.
Failure to do so may result in disciplinary action.
Further desirable skills pre-application
Due to the competitive nature of the admissions process:
SQA HNC/BTEC LEVEL 4 HNC
All HNDs require a minimum of BA in the Graded Units.
All HNCs and HNDs must include Maths and English at National 5 Grade C or equivalent.
ACCREDITATION OF PRIOR EXPERIENTIAL LEARNING (APEL) For entry into Year 2 (Level 8) of the GA pathway through APEL, applicants will produce evidence to show how they have met learning outcomes for Year 1 (Level 7) through their prior learning and work experience.
All GA students must have a contract of employment (minimum of 21 hours per week) and approval from their employer to apply for the programme.
Successful applicants who gain a place on this course will need to register on the PVG Scheme, managed and delivered by Disclosure Scotland.
For individuals and organisations who wish to find out more about the BA (Hons) Social Work (Graduate Apprenticeship), please contact our dedicated team:

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/gas/information-for-employers:
If you’re an employer, a Graduate Apprenticeship from UWS can help you to develop the skilled staff you need for the growth you want.
Graduate Apprenticeships are a new way for you to invest in the talents of your workforce.
Through the apprenticeships you can develop your workforce and support staff to build their skills to industry and professional standards.
We’ll work with you to develop a bespoke Graduate Apprenticeship programme that delivers the skills and qualifications directly relevant to your business needs.
Tuition fees are met by Student Awards Agency Scotland (SAAS), which reduces the cost to employers and means you can maximise the return on your investment.
Graduate Apprenticeships are a genuine partnership between you, your employee(s) and UWS.
We will work with you to develop a programme that is individually tailored to your business and skills needs.
If you are committed to developing the skills of your workforce and want to find out how a Graduate Apprenticeship might help, please email: apprenticeships@uws.ac.uk
Graduate Apprenticeships can help you recruit talented employees to your business who might otherwise follow a traditional route into university education.
There’s no age limit so you can also up-skill existing employees who have the ability to study to Honours degree level.
It takes a Graduate Apprentice the same amount of time to complete a degree as a full-time student.
This is because knowledge, skills and competency are gained at work as well as through study.
The split between work and study is roughly 80:20, meaning Graduate Apprentices will spend most of their time at work.
Due to the way Graduate Apprenticeships are funded, they are only available to employees living and working in Scotland.
As well as achieving a degree from UWS, your Graduate Apprentices will:

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/gas/information-for-applicants:
Graduate Apprenticeships (GAs) offer an alternative to the traditional routes into university education.
If you’re currently in work but have the talent to study to Honours degree level, or if you’re thinking about leaving school but would prefer to go into work rather than become a full-time student, a Graduate Apprenticeship is for you.
The split between work and study is roughly 80:20, so you’ll spend most of your time at work.
You will also earn a wage while you are studying, meaning you can complete a degree without getting into debt.
This combination of working, learning and earning means you will be able to apply the things you learn in your degree to your workplace and vice versa.
Unlike traditional routes into degree-level education, you’re already in work so won't need to start looking for a graduate job once you’ve completed your degree.
In the future additional Graduate Apprenticeships matched to growing sectors of the economy will be developed.
These will be advertised when they become available.
To apply to become a GA you must:
Entry requirements for GAs will depend on which apprenticeship you are applying for.
Typically, we would expect a minimum four Scottish Highers (or equivalent) at BBBC or equivalent.
Your application will be assessed on an individual basis, taking into account any qualifications and previous industry experience you have.
If you have already completed a Foundation or a Modern Apprenticeship in a related subject, this will also contribute towards meeting the entry requirements.
GA tuition fees for eligible applicants are met in full by Student Awards Agency Scotland (SAAS).
Please check that you meet SAAS eligibility criteria before submitting an application.
Further information is available here
As a full-time apprentice you will also receive a wage from your employer.
Any additional costs in relation to books, course materials and travel should be discussed with your employer.
GAs have been mapped to professional body standards so Graduate Apprentices will be able to apply for membership to relevant professional bodies upon graduation.
In addition, you may be able to progress through professional standards and accreditations at a faster pace.
If you’re already in employment but you have the potential to study at Honours degree level, speak with your employer to find out whether they have plans to get involved in Graduate Apprenticeships.
If you have the support of your employer to study a GA you can apply directly for your chosen degree via the 'apply' button on the relevant course page.
If you are a school leaver or not in employment but think that a Graduate Apprenticeship could be for you, you apply for one the same way you’d apply for a job.
Graduate Apprenticeships vacancies offered by UWS will be advertised on our website and on Skills Development Scotland’s dedicated apprenticeships website .
Alternatively, you can register your interest in the apprenticeships we offer and we’ll let you know when a suitable employer is recruiting.
To register, email: apprenticeships@uws.ac.uk .
Due to the way Graduate Apprenticeships are funded, only students who meet SAAS eligibility criteria can apply.
Further information is available here .
You will also be required to provide evidence of your employer’s support as part of the application process.
The University is committed to looking after any information that you make available to us during your time at the University.
Find out how your personal information which you supply to us may be used by clicking the link below:
View the UWS Graduate Apprenticeships Privacy Notice (pdf)
Find out more about the benefits of GAs by reading our success stories below:
UWS’s Graduate Apprenticeship (GA) in Civil Engineering has enabled an ambitious female to pursue a career in this exciting field.
Kirsty Smith, who graduated in 2022, benefited from studying the UWS Graduate Apprenticeship, securing a promotion at the Ayrshire Roads Alliance (ARA) last year.
She was a finalist in the Apprentice Ambassador of the Year category of the Scottish Apprenticeship Awards 2024.
Kirsty, who has been working with the Ayrshire Roads Alliance for over nine years and currently holds the post of Design Team Leader, said: “I chose to study the UWS Civil Engineering GA as throughout my life I have always had an interest in engineering.
Civil Engineering has many varied aspects which makes it a very interesting industry to work in as every project is different.
Civil Engineering is often seen as a ‘man’s job’ but more and more females are coming into the industry each year.
“I had previously completed my HND which allowed me entry into second year on the UWS BEng (Hons) Civil Engineering GA course.
Working full-time whilst studying for a degree required a lot of commitment, but the work-based learning aspect, which counts towards one third of your degree, made it easier as the things you are already doing at work count directly towards your final grade.
“Being on the GA course really helped my career progression.
Whilst studying the GA I was promoted from a Technician to an Engineer and last year I was promoted to the role of Design Team Leader.
“I would recommend GAs to anyone; the mix of work-based and classroom learning is perfect.
The subjects you cover at university are applied straight away in the workplace while still fresh in your mind.
And whilst completing a GA, you are a full-time employee which means you are also earning.”
Studying and taking on the role as Key Worker for 10 children is hard work, but Alistair Mack says that it’s all worth it.
Alistair is studying on UWS’s Graduate Apprenticeship (GA) in Early Learning & Childcare while also working full-time in an Early Childcare Centre (ECC).
“I have plenty of support from both the University and my workplace,” says Alistair.
“I feel like I am handling it well.”
And Alistair can see all of the hard work paying off with his practice improving every day from the knowledge grained on the course.
“It’s great to see things we’ve learned about or spoken about in university unfolding in front of my eyes at work.”
Ultimately Alistair is hoping that completing the course will set him up for leadership roles moving forward in his degree.
“I would like to lead my own ECC and maybe in the future look towards helping develop other practitioners or even the policies and laws that affect early learning and childcare in Scotland.”
Alistair has plenty of good things to say about the Early Learning and Childcare GA at UWS too.
“Earning while you’re learning is such a great thing.
As is on the job experience.
Nothing beats the real thing.
“The support and guidance from the lecturers is the best thing about studying at UWS.
I’d recommend this course to anyone currently working in the sector, looking for a university qualification – you won’t regret it!”
David, who is a Manufacturing Engineer, has been employed by SAS International, which is a market leading manufacturer of metal ceilings, for 15 years and is now in the 2nd year of his Business Management GA.
He chose this GA as it offered the opportunity to combine working towards achieving an Honours level degree in Business Management while continuing in his role at SAS.
In his current role, David project manages the introduction of new manufacturing machinery and processes.
He has responsibility for every stage of the process from identifying machinery that best fits business need to the final handover to production.
Commenting on the GA David said: “Having previously completed an Engineering MA, I was familiar with the apprenticeship model and was attracted by the GA as it aligns academic studies with day-to-day work.
The emphasis on online delivery and tailored work-based learning complements my learning style and allows me to balance work, study and life commitments.”
“In the longer term, I aspire to move into a more senior management role and the Business Management GA will give me both the breadth and depth of knowledge, skills and understanding to support such a move.”
Jamie Arnott, Graduate Engineer at Wallace Stone , has advanced his career thanks to UWS's Graduate Apprenticeship (GA) in Civil Engineering.
In 2022 Jamie graduated from UWS with First Class Honours and also won the University’s Court Medal for being the top student in his year.
As a GA student, Jamie was able to integrate his academic learning with his workplace activities and demonstrate the application of his knowledge, skills and understanding in a professional environment.
Jamie has been working at consulting civil engineers Wallace Stone, specialists in the field of marine and floating structures, for over six years.
Jamie said: “Since I was a kid I have had a passion for drawing and design which led me to pursue a career within a field where I could explore my interests.
After participating in Falkirk Council’s traineeship programme as a Trainee Architectural Technician in 2015, I joined Wallace Stone LLP as a Junior Civil Engineering Technician.
In 2016, I started my HNC in Civil Engineering at Glasgow Kelvin College on a day-release basis.
Upon completion of this course in 2018, I wanted to continue my studies and began the Graduate Apprenticeship in Civil Engineering at UWS.
“Studying a degree whilst working was very challenging and took a lot of dedication and hard work.
However, I believe my studies benefitted greatly from the guidance and support which I had from my work colleagues.
This support network provided me with a forum to ask questions and pushed me to complete my university work to a high standard.”
The GA in Civil Engineering is a Work Based Learning degree which is mostly delivered in the workplace, ensuring that the content is aligned to industry needs .
Typically students spend one day per week at UWS, with the work and learning they do in their workplace making a significant contribution towards their degree.
Jamie added: “The work-based element of the degree contextualised learning by enabling knowledge gained at the University to be transferred to real work situations and vice versa.
This has enabled be to progress professionally by expanding my knowledge and accelerating the time it took me to gain professional accreditation - Engineering Technician (EngTech) membership -  with the Institute of Civil Engineers (ICE)."
We are so proud of Jye that we nominated her for Graduate Apprentice of the Year!
Jye currently works as a support assistant within an ELCC setting in Glasgow.
She works alongside her team in providing support for all the children and families who use the setting.
Jye’s mentors consistently comment on her enthusiasm for early education and childcare.
Her lecturers have observed her respectful interactions with children, families and colleagues, demonstrating Jye’s impact in contributing to making Scotland the best place for children to grow up.
She has been an inspiration to colleagues and fellow students in her ability to combine family commitments, work and further studies, whilst maintaining enthusiasm and passion in supporting the work of ELC in Scotland.
Whilst balancing these priorities, Jye has also been able to achieve a steady and sustained improvement in her grades throughout the apprenticeship across years 1 and 2.
Jye’s studies and experience in practice have increased her knowledge and understanding of not only child development, but of the policy framework that supports children and families in Scotland.
Jye notes that the Graduate Apprenticeship programme has developed confidence in her ability and knowledge around the routes for progression in her studies.
She is very keen to develop her skills of support and is currently exploring how she might progress in her studies by completing postgraduate study in Early Education.
Jye is exactly the type of practitioner that children and families need, and her development through this apprenticeship has only enhanced her commitment to supporting all of the children and families that she encounters.
Radoslaw Lewandowski, who holds the post of Associate Software Engineer at Arnold Clark, has just completed his GA programme at UWS and has already seen the benefits of the course in his job.
He said: “I have gained a lot of practical, hands on development experience during my time completing my GA which helps me in my current role to develop new software.
“I was always interested in IT and the UWS GA gave me the opportunity to be able to advance my career and gain academic qualifications whilst also still being able to provide for my family.
Software developers are in high demand and I am delighted to have undertaken the course.
UWS is a great university and its new modern campus in Lanarkshire is a great place to study.”
“The UWS GA gave me the opportunity to be able to advance my career and gain academic qualifications whilst also still being able to provide for my family.”
Arnold Clark has been involved in the University’s GA offering since August 2017.
David Peters, Head of Digital Solutions at Arnold Clark, said: “Our UWS Graduate Apprentices go straight into the workplace from day one and are embedded into the business early, interacting with teams and getting hands on experience of the agile software development process.
“Graduate Apprenticeships provide a number of benefits, the main one is the ability for us to develop our apprentices in a way that is unique to our business.”
Andrew Begg, who lives in Glasgow, works as a Technical Services Engineer at Newsprinters’ Eurocentral operation in Glasgow.
He benefited from undertaking a Graduate Apprenticeship (GA) in Engineering Design & Manufacture at the University’s Paisley Campus.
Andrew, who graduated in 2019, said: “I have worked as a mechanical engineer in manufacturing for 19 years which included a five year apprenticeship which began in 1998.
I am committed to lifelong learning and during that time I gained an HND in mechanical engineering and an HNC in mechatronics ending in 2006.
Over the last two years I have gained a CMI Level 5 in management and leadership.
“I was attracted to the GA course at UWS as I felt the content mix of core engineering and engineering management skills were a good progression from my previous experience.
Studying at degree level is something I wanted to achieve for a long time but due to work commitments attending a traditional university course was not possible.”
Max Blanchflower is benefiting from studying the UWS GA in Civil Engineering along with a full-time post as a Trainee Site Engineer at George Leslie.
Max, who is now in the second year of BEng (Hons) Civil Engineering GA, said: “The Graduate Apprenticeship has been a fantastic opportunity for me, enabling me to have a full-time job whilst studying towards a degree.
The GA will really help my career development at George Leslie and my goal of becoming a fully-qualified engineer.
“There are so many benefits of studying a GA – the hands-on skills that you learn can be applied immediately to the workplace.”

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/cpd-short-courses-modules/modern-languages:
The School of Education and Social Sciences at the University of the West of Scotland provides Languages for All for students from all schools of UWS, UWS staff and members of the public.
Languages for All offers you the opportunity to start learning:
or to improve your previous knowledge in any of these languages.
Arabic and British Sign Language are offered at beginner’s level only.
For information about the timetables please email LanguagesforAll@uws.ac.uk
The classes are suitable for anyone who wishes to learn a language for work or leisure, or to develop their existing knowledge.
They are open to students, staff, and members of the public.
There are modules at a variety of levels, from complete beginner, to modules that are suitable for students who have a good command of the language.
The majority of modules are twenty credits with some ten credit modules available as introductions to the language.
See below for an example using Spanish.
The modules above are all studied at SCQF level 7.
Other levels of modules are available, please email LanguagesforAll@uws.ac.uk for more information.
The focus is on practical language skills that you can use in social, academic and business contexts.
All classes are taught by native speakers.
For total language immersion, classes are conducted in the target language as much as possible.
Topics covered are wide ranging and take account of current debates in the countries whose languages you are studying.
As classes are relatively small you will find that your lecturers will soon know you individually.
All modules are credit bearing, the assessment is continuous and there is no exam at the end.
Languages for All Daytime Classes are available during trimesters one and two.
Attendance will either be:
or
For further information please email LanguagesforAll@uws.ac.uk
All modules are subject to minimum numbers for viability.
Higher level (SCQF level 9) will be three hours a week.
If you are a UWS student and want to take a Modern Language module as an Option, contact your Programme Leader/Year Leader.
If you are a UWS student and want to take a Modern Language as an extra module (that is, over and above your mandatory number of credits) you will be entitled to a 50% discount and you will need to apply via the UWS store .
If you are a member of the public, you will need to apply here.
A reference is not required.
Once your application has been completed, it will be reviewed by our Admissions team, and you will receive an offer letter.
You will need to pay your fee for the language class before enrolling online.
You can pay here.
If you are a student, make sure you enter your Banner Number (student ID) to allow the payment to be matched to your record.
Each 20 credit module costs £305 (Scottish/EU), £1550 (RUK) or £2100 (non-EU).
Each 10 credit module costs £155(Scottish/EU), £775 (RUK) or £1050 (non-EU).
Group discounts (for 10 or more participants) are available for local authority/businesses when booked and paid for by the organisation at a reduced price of £190 per 20 credit module.
Bespoke courses can also be provided.
You need to enrol online.
This process converts you from an applicant to an enrolled student.
Guidance is available here .
The online enrolment process usually opens late August for the new academic year.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/cpd-short-courses-modules/health-related-modules:
UWS is a leading provider of education for the health sector.
We are Scotland’s largest provider of health, nursing and midwifery education.
Our graduates make a phenomenal contribution to the healthcare and wellbeing of communities across Scotland, UK and countries across the globe.
We offer a module specifically designed for those who want to commence a career in either adult or mental health nursing now, or in the future, by undertaking our BSc Adult Nursing or BSc Mental Health Nursing.
The other modules are designed for qualified nurses, midwives or other health professionals to prescribe on an independent or supplementary basis to help them support learning and assessment of students in clinical practice.
Designed for those who are considering a career in either adult or mental health nursing.
This module is online and over the summer months (May-August) but there is an opportunity to visit one of our Scottish campuses for some face-to-face classes.
The module is awarded at SCQF level 7, equates to 20 credit points and prepares you for entry to either BSc Adult Nursing or BSc Mental Health Nursing degrees here at UWS.
The Community Nurse V150 Prescribing module aims to prepare first level nurses and midwives to prescribe safely from the Nurse Prescriber’s Formulary (NPF).
The module has been approved by the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) and is undertaken at SCQF Level 9 (degree level).
All module content is underpinned by the Royal Pharmaceutical Society’s Competency Framework for all Prescribers (2021) which applies to all categories of prescriber.
The prescribing qualification is recordable by the NMC.
The Independent & Supplementary Prescribing modules aim to prepare you to be a safe independent and/or supplementary prescriber The module has been approved by the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) and The Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) and can be undertaken at SCQF Level 9 (degree level) or SCQF Level 11 (post graduate/master’s level).
The prescribing qualification is recordable by the relevant professional body.
This module will explore the history, development and current principles and practices of palliative care.
After tracing the roots of modern palliative care in the hospice movement and its development into a global phenomenon, it will go on to critically analyse current provision around the world.
Time will be devoted to a review of current trends in palliative care, particularly in symptom control, supportive and psychoeducational approaches, and the extension of services to previously neglected groups.
The module will be of interest to health and social care professionals working in primary, secondary and specialist areas.
It will be relevant to those who work with children, adults and older people with a range of malignant and non-malignant conditions.
The content of this module maps onto the skilled level of the NHS Education for Scotland (NES) (2017) Palliative and End of Life Care Framework to support the learning and development needs of the health and social care workforce.
If you do not currently hold your degree then you may be eligible to use credit from this module towards our top-up degree, BSc (Hons) Professional Health Studies .
Please contact the School’s Education Guidance Adviser (EGA) for more information at: HLSGuidance@uws.ac.uk .
You should normally hold your degree or have previously studied at SCQF Level 9.
Other qualifications and experience may be considered.
Applications can be made through our online application system .
As part of your application please ensure you upload a personal statement outlining your professional working background and reasons for applying for the module, a copy of your qualifications and details of a referee.
Please see the end of this webpage for more information on fees and funding opportunities.
For further information on module availability, applications, fees and funding please contact the School’s Education Guidance Adviser on HLSGuidance@uws.ac.uk .
For more information about the module content please contact the module co-ordinator.
This module has been developed for healthcare professionals to be able to respond to the clinical needs of people with diabetes within multiprofessional settings and using a collaborative approach.
It takes a holistic view of the disease trajectory and emphasises the relationship between a person’s social, psychological, spiritual and physical needs.
Students undertaking the module will develop their critical thinking and analytical skills.
Engagement with global, national and local perspectives in diabetes will ensure students complete the module with global perspectives and a research-minded approach to diabetes care delivery.
Clinical experts will utilise case-study based scenarios that allow the practitioner to develop the problem-solving skills to meet the acute needs of the person with diabetes and also to partner with the person with diabetes in the long-term management of their condition.
If you do not currently hold your degree then you may be eligible to use credit from this module towards our top-up degree, BSc Hons Professional Health Studies .
Please Note: Due to the assessment of this module, students will identify their own cases studies to underpin their study and the assessment.
Therefore, ideally, students should be in a practice environment and have access to suitable clients with diabetes.
Applications can be made online through our online application system .
For further information on module availability, applications, fees and funding please contact the School’s Education Guidance Adviser at: HLSGuidance@uws.ac.uk .
This theoretical module, delivered online, begins with an overview of how infection control practices have evolved over time, exploring the impact and influence of changing global environmental/cultural/financial perspectives on infection categorisation, prevention, control and monitoring.
As the module continues, concepts such as surveillance, audit activity, quality improvement initiatives and research will be introduced, discussed, debated and appraised within the framework of practice enhancement - acknowledging the need to understand and appreciate the wide range of mechanisms available to assist in recognising good quality practice and addressing practice deficits.
Delivery of core module materials is via VLE: Asynchronous online activities, formative assessment, PDP and independent study will support learning and engagement, and provide opportunity to present, discuss and debate the implications of poor infection control practice, and the mechanisms which can be implemented to promote and enhance effective infection control practice.
These mechanisms include education, research, quality improvement approaches and evidence-based practice; multi-disciplinary teamwork, leadership and role modelling; clinical governance issues such as international and national political agendas, local policy, risk assessment, resource allocation and management systems, dealing with the media and the public, and managing litigation.
The topics studied will reflect current national and international issues in the field of infection control, and which are relevant to the students’ area of personal or professional interest.
Health and Social Care practitioners will encounter clients in pain.
This will vary from that arising from simple causes to the complexities of difficult pain syndromes.
Consequently, there is a need for practitioners to acquire and promote knowledge and skills in total pain management.
The underpinning influence for this module is the belief that education is the key to the dissemination of new attitudes, knowledge and skills; in order to improve pain management and implement evidence based best practice.
The focus of this theoretical module is to provide the student with the opportunity to develop their knowledge and understanding of pain and credible and relevant evidence for best practice for pain management.
Areas covered by this module include:
Care delivery occurs in complex and interdependent systems.
Unfortunately this can often lead to those we care for, suffering from preventable harm.
Therefore, understanding and improving quality and safety in health and care systems is now a global priority.
Designing and testing changes requires new knowledge and skills.
This module aims to increase the students’ knowledge and understanding of quality improvement methods and how these new skills can be used to help implement change and ultimately increase safety.
Students are supported to use data and evidence to bring about changes in practice to benefit care; consideration will be given to clinical indicator programs, adverse event monitoring, satisfaction surveys, benchmarking, evidence-based practice and clinical guidelines.
The module content reflects current theory and research within the area of quality improvement and patient/client safety and is aimed at all health or social care professionals.
This module is aimed at professionals who support people facing non-bereavement and bereavement losses that meets their needs.
The module provides prospective graduates with an in-depth knowledge of loss and grief theories and develops cultural awareness of the impact of loss on a range of people.
In doing so the module focuses on enabling students to become autonomous problem solvers who are collaborative practitioners and who are able to develop creative and imaginative solutions in which to support the bereaved.
The impact of specific types of death and the resulting grief responses will be reviewed and the roles of a range of helpers identified.
The benefits of a helping approach will be discussed to enable students apply evidence-based solutions to the support of people facing loss regardless of their cultural background.
This module is suitable for health and social care professionals from anywhere in the world as it allows the application of theory to practice regardless of geography or care setting.
This enhances global citizenship by providing a critical understanding of loss and grief in health and social care settings across the world.
As this module is theoretical in content students do not need to be currently working with people experiencing loss.
A workplace supervisor is not required as this a theoretical module.
The content of this module maps onto the enhanced/expert level of the NHS Education for Scotland Palliative and End of Life Care Framework to Support the Learning and Development Needs and Social Service Workforce.
Please see the end of this webpage for more information on fess and funding opportunities.
This module is suitable for registered healthcare practitioners directly involved in the administration of systemic anti-cancer therapy (SACT) and will support them to become graduates who are universal, work-ready and successful.
Existing and new knowledge and cognitive skills will be developed both in the classroom and the clinical setting, utilising work based learning competencies and theoretical assessment.
The content of the course will be consistent with local, regional and national policy and guidelines, including the UKONS Chemotherapy Passport (UKONS, 2017) and it supports the implementation of CEL 30 (2012) (Revised) Guidance for the Safe Delivery of Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) (Scottish Government, Quality Unit, 2012) and CEL 21 (2009) (Safe Administration of Intrathecal Cytotoxic Chemotherapy) by providing a foundation for a consistent approach to education and training.
There is also a focus on the potential psychosocial impacts of SACT and ways in which these can be most effectively addressed.
Please Note: Students are required to ensure they are able to fulfil the clinical competencies required for module assessment.
This means being able to administer SACT in their clinical area or during placement to another suitable clinical area, which must be organised through their employer.
They must also have the support of their line manager and access to a suitably qualified clinical mentor in the workplace.
The clinical competences will be completed normally within three months but over no more than three trimesters in exceptional circumstances.
The ability to communicate effectively across a range of settings is a core work-ready graduate attribute of UWS.
This is also a core competency for professionals working across health and social care regardless of their geographical location.
The importance of effective communication within health and social care practice will be appraised.
This will enable global citizenship by allowing students to appreciate the communication challenges within different care environments.
The development of a critical awareness of the issues of communication within the global community will also enhance students' ability to work with a range of communication issues related to global health and social care.
Therapeutic communication comprises of interventions intended to facilitate a positive ‘therapeutic shift’ for a wide range of issues such as anxiety, communication difficulties, addictive behaviours, bereavement and health promotion.
Students will be required to apply critical thinking to effective communication, various therapeutic models/frameworks and other helping strategies.
The qualities of an effective practitioner within caring environments will be examined and the context of what enables a therapeutic relationship between a patient/client and the practitioner explored.
The skin is the largest organ in the body.
Illness or injury occur can compromise its integrity and lead to a number of tissue viability issues along with other physical, psychological and social problems for the patient and/or their family and carers.
As part of this module students will study the: anatomy and physiology of skin; phases of wound healing, assessment and management of acute and chronic wounds including pressure related damage, TIMES principle of systematic wound management, research and evidence based practice, pain, nutrition and infection, the multi-disciplinary team and professional and legal issues.
Please Note: Due to the clinical orientation of this module you must be qualified health care professionals whose remit involves management and care of patients with wounds.
Prospective students unsure of their suitability should contact the module co-ordinator in the first instance.
The aim of this module is to facilitate first level nurses and allied health professionals to extend the scope of their role to include knowledge and skills required to undertake a structured physical assessment in all healthcare settings.
The module will encourage practitioners to critically apply the skills of clinical assessment to ensure early recognition and appropriate escalation to appropriate services.
The module is suited to practitioners, who with managerial support, are ready to develop existing skills and knowledge to meet the needs of their service.
The module is delivered fully online enabling practitioners to remain in their clinical area.
Learning materials will be released weekly, enabling the student time to contextualise theory to clinical application with the support of a Clinical Supervisor.
Students will receive academic support from an academic assessor.
Central to the student's learning will be the ability to secure a clinical supervisor such as an ANP/Dr, skilled in clinical assessment techniques.
Supervisors with formal assessment qualifications will also be considered, however this must be discussed with the module co-ordinator.
Please note that students should seek managerial support to undertake this module and have supervision secured prior to commencing.
The module will cover the holistic aspects of undertaking a person centred, safe assessment including:
Major systems will be explored including respiratory, cardiovascular, abdominal, musculoskeletal and neurological, with optional resources specific to the practitioner's area of practice such as paediatrics, ENT and mental health.
The module is mapped to SCQF Level 9 (degree) and will provide 20 SCQF credits.
Following completion of the module and a period of consolidation, practitioners will be competent in undertaking physical assessment skills and appropriate escalation relevant to individual person-centred needs, safety and role expectations.
Please note that this course is at Level 9 and is not intended to provide assessment skills for those looking to move to a more advanced role.
Students will be supported to undertake two components of assessment, namely:
Assessment 1
A 2000-word case study critically examining the presentation, initial assessment and patient history followed by an outline of systemic enquiry related to the patient presentation and underpinned by a structured consultation process.
Assessment 2
A Turas based portfolio demonstrating the student's ability to link theory to practice in the clinical environment including Mini-Cex examinations assessed by a Clinical Supervisor.
At least 50 hours clinical practice will be required to demonstrate competency supported by a Practice Assessor experienced in clinical assessment techniques.
You should normally hold a degree or have previously studied at SCQF Level 9.
Other qualifications/ experience may be considered.
The module is designed for practitioners from all healthcare settings.
It is designed to prepare practitioners to undertake enhanced assessment skills required in a modern healthcare context.
Practitioners will be expected to undertake at least 50 hours of work-based learning to achieve competence supported by a Clinical Supervisor who has the relevant experience/qualifications to support the student.
Students must secure managerial support to undertake assessment skills within their clinical role.
Please note: this course is not suitable for practitioners who wish to undertake Advanced Practice training.
Prospective students will be required to submit the following information on application.
CLINICAL ASSESSMENT SKILLS FORM FOR DOWNLOAD
All forms must be uploaded onto the UWS online application system .
Failure to complete/upload the forms will result in a delay in your application being processed.
For more information about the module content please contact the module co-ordinator - Mrs Pamela Young ( pamela.young@uws.ac.uk )
The module aims to help the health and social care professional to develop their skills of teaching in professional practice.
The different international theoretical approaches which underpin effective teaching skills and learner needs are discussed.
The qualities which positively influence good practice teaching are considered whilst learning styles and theories are explored.
Aims, educational objectives and learning outcomes are all defined.
Models of programme design, educational resources and the sequencing of content are discussed.
A variety of teaching methods and methods of assessing learning are examined.
The rationale for evaluating teaching is presented alongside the methods for gaining feedback.
The module will provide the participant with the knowledge and skills required to support the role of teaching in his/her professional practice.
The approach to learning within this module is student-centred which supports and enables the participant to take responsibility for their own learning and guides each learner towards building on their previous and concurrent experience.
You should normally hold your degree or have previously studied at SCQF Level 10.
Significant improvements in UK and European health status in terms of the major diseases of cancer, heart disease and stroke have occurred, although these improvement have not been experienced by everyone.
Unacceptable inequalities in health still exist across societal groups and in developing countries challenges in improving population health often remain unaddressed.
Recent global and national policies have highlighted the importance of the distinctive contribution that health and social care practitioners make to improving public health.
However, they stress the need for this contribution to be much more focussed and targeted to meet the health needs of individuals, families and communities, and in particular the vulnerable and excluded.
In responding to these proposals it is necessary for global practitioners to work across geographical and professional boundaries to empower consumers to increase control over their own health and well-being; and ensure that they are fully involved in this decision making process.
Thus this module would be suitable to a wide range of health and social care professionals.
As well as being introduced to the evolution of global public health theory and practice, students will work toward adopting a systematic approach to developing health improvement interventions using the processes underpinned by public health and health promotion specialists.
The delivery of successful health and social care services relies on effective leadership.
This module is designed for all health and social care professionals who would like to learn more about leadership in health and social care.
The module considers various leadership styles and theories including transactional & transformational leadership.
As much of health and social care is delivered by means of multi-disciplinary teamwork, the various types of groups are considered, the characteristics of an effective team, the dynamics of groups and teams, team cohesion and how decision-making is achieved within teams.
The module will help students develop the necessary knowledge and analytical skills, as well as providing an overview of the organisational, legal and policy contexts within which we operate, focusing on the challenges and opportunities faced in this sector.
Throughout the module students apply learning to real-life examples, developing evidence-based strategies for good outcomes for service users.
Professional issues and the professionalisation of the health and social disciplines are considered, as well as the concepts of responsibility, accountability and autonomy.
Given the different educational preparations and professional expectations, communication patterns between the disciplines and methods for enhancing communication are analysed.
MODULE OVERVIEW
The Advanced Clinical Assessment Module is suitable for registered practitioners within a wide range of clinical areas who wish to develop their clinical assessment skills.
The module focuses on comprehensive history taking, physical examination of all body systems as well as an introduction to the identification of red flags and differential diagnoses.
Students are encouraged to identify their scope of competence and in doing so make decisions related to patient safety, management or risk, referral and escalation.
ENTRY REQUIREMENTS
Applications are welcomed from Nurses, Pharmacists and Allied Health Professionals looking to advance their knowledge and skills to improve their clinical practice and patient care.
Applicants must be employed, and have at least one year’s post registration experience, within an appropriate clinical area.
APPLICATIONS
Applications must be received by the end of July prior to the September start date.
To make an application please use our online application system .
Applicants will then be sent the UWS Advanced Treatment and Management Statement of Support document to be completed by their employer.
We are unable to consider an application or make an offer until this signed document is added to the UWS online application.
FURTHER INFORMATION
For further information on the module including suitability and application processes, please contact the module coordinator or Gillian McTaggart Programme Leader: MSc Advanced Practitioner gillian.mctaggart1@uws.ac.uk
Find out more in our module information leaflet (PDF)
Advanced Treatment and Management in Acute Care (code: NURS11175)
This module is suitable for Advanced Practitioners working in acute and emergency care settings who are expected to autonomously assess and manage patients with wide ranging, and often complex, acute presentations, competently and safely.
The focus is on the assessment, diagnosis and management of acutely unwell and deteriorating patients, including the interpretation of common investigations, such as chest x-ray, electrocardiogram (ECG), arterial blood gas (ABG) analysis and routine blood test analysis.
Advanced Treatment and Management in Mental Health (code: NURS11176)
This module is suitable for Advanced Practitioners working across a range of mental health settings to help synthesise theory and practice to underpin advanced level skills for the management of highly complex needs within these areas, which will incorporate advancing skills in effective assessment, diagnosis and management within mental health   Themes of shared decision making, co-production, safeguarding and quality of care will run throughout the module content and practitioners will have the opportunity to develop their skills in the holistic care of the patient, with considerations being given to undifferentiated and undiagnosed mental health conditions, in addition to the biological and psychological needs of the patient.
Advanced Treatment and Management in Specialist Practice (code: NURS11177)
This module is suitable for ACNSs and Advanced AHPs working in specialist areas and will facilitate contextualisation of Advanced Practice theory to develop new understanding in the specialised clinical role.
The focus is on multi-disciplinary and collaborative approaches to care delivery in multiple healthcare settings underpinned by professional frameworks, evidence and governance.
Knowledge of advanced level assessment is further developed by an understanding of the wider aspects of assessment within a specialist field and an application of advanced analysis of complexity, empowering practitioners with the confidence and competence to work in areas of uncertainty or where there is a lack of professional guidance to ensure their practice is safe, person centred and compassionate within challenging specialist environments.
Advanced Treatment and Management in Urgent and Primary Care (code: NURS11178)
This module is suitable for Advanced Practitioners working across a range of urgent, primary and community care settings such as general practice and out of hours services.
The focus is  on  assessment, diagnosis and management of patients, presenting with acute and chronic undifferentiated and/or undiagnosed clinical presentations across the lifespan.
Common presentations in both adults and paediatrics along with themes such as remote consultations and triage, women’s and men’s health and frailty and palliative care will be explored to enable autonomous management of the complete clinical care of patients within these settings.
NURS11173 Advanced Clinical Assessment and Decision Making (or equivalent) must be completed prior to any of the Advanced Treatment and Management modules.
Applications must be received by the end of November prior to the January start date.
For further information on any of the modules including suitability and application processes, please contact:
Gillian McTaggart Programme Leader: MSc Advanced Practitioner gillian.mctaggart1@uws.ac.uk
Registered health care professionals are required to use teaching and coaching skills when working with junior staff and students.
This is core in providing competency in caring and effective evidence-based practice.
This module explores various components, which underpin optimum clinical teaching in the practice setting such as; learning theory, methods of clinical teaching, lesson planning, assessment and evaluation.
In addition the module critically explores teaching principles for use with patients and clients, along with the importance of ensuring lifelong learning and Continuing Professional Development (CPD), within healthcare professionals teaching practice.
The module is designed to facilitate professionals who wish to enhance and develop their teaching and mentorship capacity in the clinical setting.
As a result, this module will support students to develop characteristics, which can contribute to the UWS graduate attributes including universal critical thinking, being work ready and successful in the clinical setting.
The credit from this module can be used towards our MSc Advanced Clinical Practitioner , or MSc Health Studies or our MSc Nursing degrees.
You should normally hold your degree or have previously studied at SCQF Level 11.
This module will provide students with the opportunity to explore the conditions for people-centred integrated care supported through the critical exploration of the key concepts and contexts from a global perspective.
This will be further developed through critical analysis of policy, governance and the contemporary discourse around theories, approaches and perspectives to create the conditions for people-centred integrated care.
Through the use of supported cross-sectoral and interprofessional learning, students will explore individual and corporate cultures, values and behaviours that are required to create the conditions for people centred integrated care and support.
The credit from this module can be used towards our MSc Leading People-centre Integrated Care .
The module critically engages with pedagogical principles supporting mental health practitioners’ delivery of education to a variety of learners and service users.
In particular, the module appraises:
You will also explore the professional challenges in providing education in a recovery-focused climate.
You will also engage with research from fields of mental health and education, and have opportunities to reflect on practice and professional development in the area of Interdisciplinary Learning.
You will be re-introduced to research from the perspectives of the two main research paradigms.
This will aid the development of critical appraisal skills and will be further supported by the use of recognised critical appraisal frameworks for each such as the NHS Critical Appraisal Skills Programme.
Development of these skills will enable critical review of the evidence for the efficacy of learning and teaching strategies within service delivery in mental health.
Importantly, you will be encouraged to plan learning and teaching strategies based on this critical review.
The credit from this module can be used towards our MSc Advanced Clinical Practitioner or MSc Mental Health Practice degrees.
Independent study is an intrinsically worthwhile developmental experience and provides an opportunity for students to customise their learning programme through individually negotiated sets of learning objectives and activities.
Within this module students will be expected to focus their individual study within the context of health, social care or education (HSCE) to explore an area of personal interest and professional relevance.
In so doing a critical literature review of the chosen topic will be developed, which addresses both the module outcomes and the student generated learning objectives.
The credit from this module can be used towards our MSc Advanced Clinical Practitioner , or MSc Health Studies , MSc Leading People-centred Integrated Care , or our MSc Nursing degrees.
Effective leadership is a crucial to the success of all organizations.
The need for effective leadership across broad professional groups is widely acknowledged both nationally and internationally and in order to achieve quality goals of efficient interdisciplinary / interagency partnership working and promote effective innovations, full cognizance requires to be taken of the culture and team dynamics within these complex organizations such as healthcare.
Students undertaking this module will be encouraged to critically explore the current challenges facing health and social care professionals delivering integrated care within a dynamic and evolving health and social care context.
In conjunction, students will be encouraged to critically appraise their personal leadership role, the influence of team dynamics and the contribution that the various professional groups make towards the delivery of efficient and effective health and social care practice.
Students are encouraged to be research minded and culturally aware of the impact of effective leadership in the workplace setting.
The credit from this module can be used towards our MSc Health Studies or our MSc Nursing degrees.
The need for robust leadership across professional groups delivering on a mental health agenda is widely acknowledged within the context of contemporary health and social care integration.
The imperative for new ways of working, driven by effective interdisciplinary / interagency partnerships is emphasised in achieving quality goals for mental health prevention, promotion and care in a rapidly evolving health and social care landscape.
This is based on a sound knowledge and understanding of the culture and team dynamics within and between these complex organisations.
This module will appeal to a range of professionals seeking to explore this aspect of their practice.
It is anticipated the student will be encouraged to critically appraise their personal leadership role, the influence of team dynamics and the contributions diverse professional groups make toward the development and delivery of efficient and effective services.
This will be supported by revisiting the research process and application of evidence appraisal skills, enabling students to develop an in-depth knowledge of the most effective range of leadership approaches in the development and delivery of services for mental health.
The credit from this module can be used towards our MSc Mental Health Practice degree.
It can be demonstrated that health care practice does not always lead to the safe high-level outcomes which it strives to deliver (Francis, 2013; Berwick, 2013; Kirkup, 2015).
However, this has arguably been made worse by global financial crisis (McMurray, 2010; Lavery, 2016)).
There has therefore been a substantial growth prioritisation and development of quality improvement (QI) in health care globally (Mazur, McCreery & Rothberg, 2012).
It has been highlighted that the National Health Service (NHS) in Scotland is now a world leader in patient safety and QI (Jeffcott, 2014), based around the developments associated with the Health Care Quality Strategy (Scottish Government, 2010) and the 2020 Vision (Scottish Government, 2013).
However, Locock (2003) raises concerns that practitioners may see that the improvement methodologies as a panacea to become disillusioned when the claimed dramatic results are not as expected.
This module aims to develop therefore, practitioners’ knowledge and understanding relating to the variety of models of quality improvement, the tools and techniques used, thus enabling them to use a variety of different approaches to realise the potential of the improvements being undertaken.
Due to changing complex healthcare systems, nurses are expected to work in new ways.
The impact of local, national and global drivers including an aging population, increasing complexity of disease and the delivery of anticipatory care have all been instrumental in driving this change (Scottish Government, 2016; World Health Organization, 2016; NHS, 2019).
The impact of these policies has led to nurses learning new skills and taking on additional responsibilities.
Many nurses now have additional management and leadership responsibilities which may involve service improvement.
Nurses now also have a more active roles in autonomously managing health and well-being.
There is a continued focus on developing new, transforming and extended professional healthcare roles to respond to changing healthcare and workforce needs (World Health Organization, 2015; The Scottish Government, 2017; NHS, 2019).
For nurses to effectively take on new responsibilities, it is essential that they are equipped with the necessary skills and knowledge.
Nurses should be able to contribute to the implementation of evidence-based practice to ensure the delivery of safe, effective, person-centred care.
It has been recognised that there is a connection between what is encountered or experienced in practice and knowledge.
Therefore reflective practice should be encouraged to achieve continued experiential learning.
This module aims to develop students' professional knowledge and expertise.
By undertaking the module students will develop a solid professional foundation essential for role and professional development.
The credit from this module can be used towards our MSc Nursing degree.
The initial focus of the module is on understanding the principles underpinning cognitive and behavioural interventions for individuals and families experiencing difficulties as a result of common mental health conditions.
There will be a critical review of the development of these approaches and students will then be asked to critically engage with the general and specific therapeutic skills required to effectively deliver these interventions in practice.
Students will be required to practice and rehearse these skills in a safe environment and feedback on their progress through supervision, coaching and guidance communicated via the virtual learning environment.
This will be undertaken prior to participants using the approaches within their clinical practice.
Ethical issues regarding the delivery of cognitive behavioural interventions within the participants’ clinical work will also be considered and discussed.
Students will be re-introduced to the process of research from the perspectives of the two main research paradigms.
Development of these skills will enable critical review of the evidence for the efficacy of cognitive behavioural interventions with people experiencing a variety of mental health conditions.
This review will allow participants to develop an in-depth knowledge of the most effective range of interventions suitable for their own practice.
Students will be encouraged to plan to deliver interventions based on this review.
Applications for all of our modules can be submitted directly to the University through our online application system .
Once you have registered with our online application system please use the Find A Programme section to find the module you want to apply for.
The easiest way to find the module is to leave all the search fields as “ Any ” and in the Programme Name search box if you type part of the module name and hit search this should find the module.
You can then use the apply button beside the module to continue with your application.
As part of your application please ensure you upload a copy of your qualifications, a personal statement outlining your reasons for applying an details of a reference in support of your application.
Some of our modules have additional requirements that must be met in order to be considered; please see the individual module for more information.
Undergraduate (UG) 20 credits*/**:
Scottish
£305.00
Rest of UK/Ireland
£1,550.00
International/EU
£2,540.00
Postgraduate (PG) 20 credits*/**:
£1,070.00
£1,680.00
£2,570.00
*Other credit values will be charged pro rata fee.
**A non-standard fee will apply as an exception to the above part-time fees for the following modules:
First Steps to Nursing
£75.00
Independent & Supplementary Prescribing
£1,200.00
For further information on any of our modules then please contact the individual module coordinators or the Education Guidance Adviser at: HLSGuidance@uws.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/current-students/supporting-your-studies/term-dates:
The Term Dates provide a list of important dates for each academic year.
The term dates for 2024/25, 2025/26, 2026/27 and 2027/28 are available below.
Some courses run outwith the designated term dates.
It is your responsibility to check all dates related to your studies with your School, Programme Leaders and Module Co-ordinators.
View the UWS calendar of term dates for academic session 2024/25.
View the UWS calendar of term dates for academic session 2025/26.
View the UWS calendar of term dates for academic session 2026/27.
View the UWS calendar of term dates for academic session 2027/28.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/current-students/supporting-your-studies/exams-assessment-appeals:
Download the Term 2 2024-25 Exam Timetable (pdf)
Please familiarise yourself with the University’s expectations on Student Conduct in Examinations , and Chapter 5 of the University Regulatory Framework .
Students who have a disability, and/or specific learning difficulty such as dyslexia, are advised to register with the University's Disability Service as soon as possible.
This will let the University ensure that individual arrangements are put in place to support their studies, including exam arrangements.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/current-students/supporting-your-studies/academic-skills:
At UWS, we want you to succeed not just in your next assignment, but throughout your whole university journey.
Our qualified and friendly Academic Skills Team is here to help you develop  the skills you need to become an independent, confident and successful learner.
Whether you're just starting out, joining UWS from college or preparing for your final year, we’re here to support you with practical tools, personalised advice, and easy to access resources  that work around your life.
Access our Academic Skills website  24/7 it's full of guides, videos, and podcasts designed to help you take control of your studies.
Click on the Academic Skills tile on the UWS app to log in to our website.
Need help logging in?
Just email skills@uws.ac.uk and we’ll get you started.
We’ll help you build a strong foundation in:
Prefer tailored advice?
We’ve got you covered:
You’ll leave every session with more clarity, confidence, and the tools to keep progressing on your own.
Join us on one of our weekly masterclasses for a live, informal session where you’ll learn skills you can use straight away in your studies.
From building better arguments to managing your deadlines, our masterclasses will help you take charge of your learning and apply it with confidence.
Visit the Academic Skills Website
Join a weekly masterclass Get in touch at skills@uws.ac.uk Listen to our Podcast

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/current-students/supporting-your-studies/complaints:
UWS is committed to providing the highest level of service for its students and members of the public who may have contact with the University.
However, the University recognises that, on occasion, issues or concerns may be raised by students or members of the public.
If you have an issue, concern or problem you are encouraged to raise it with the School or Professional Service area in which the issue arose.
The purpose of this frontline resolution is to attempt to resolve your problem as quickly as possible.
However if after trying to resolve the problem you are still not satisfied, then you can submit a complaint.
Although not compulsory, it would be helpful if you could complete and return a complaint form to complaints@uws.ac.uk .
This will enable you to focus on the points you wish to raise and for us to retain a clear record of your complaint.
It would also be helpful if you provided evidence to support your complaint.
Download Complaints Form (PDF)
The University endeavours to operate with integrity, diligence and to act in line with all relevant laws and regulations.
However, it recognises that it may occasionally fail to meet the high standards which it expects, and which it may be reasonably expected by others, to achieve.
The University has therefore established procedures through which concerns can be raised and acted upon.
The University has established procedures that enable you to raise concerns which may include, inadequate level of service, reports of bribery, research misconduct etc.
The University has established procedures that enable you to raise concerns which may include, inadequate level of service, reports of suspected bribery or fraud and research misconduct etc.
Please see our Policies, Procedures & Guidance page for more details.
Individuals, other than members of staff, who believe that they have been subjected to an inadequate level of service, mistreatment or mal-administration by the University are encouraged in the first instance to raise the matter with the School or Professional Service area involved in order to address the situation.
Where this does not result in a satisfactory resolution for the complainant, the matter can be progressed via the University’s Complaints Handling Procedure.
Separate arrangements are in place for students wishing to appeal academic assessments or disciplinary matters .
Concerns relating to matters falling within the scope of the Public Interest Disclosure (Whistleblowing) Procedure should be reported to the University Secretary, the University Solicitor or the Head of Internal Audit Service, directly or through the general e-mail address at speak.up@uws.ac.uk .
Note: this email address is not to be used by students to raise concerns or complaints about their own academic circumstances.
A student appeal is defined as a request to review a decision of an academic body charged with making decisions on student engagement, assessment, progression, awards and student disciplinary cases.
Please note that separate arrangements are in place for students wishing to appeal academic assessments or disciplinary matters.
The UWS Students' Union has a separate complaints procedure which sets out how you can make a complaint about the Students' Union.
If there are any complaints and concerns about the Students' Union, these should be emailed to: Unionpresident@uws.ac.uk
You can use this Complaints Form as part of the Complaints Handling Procedure (this is not required).
The University is committed to looking after any information that you make available to us when you make a complaint to us.
This privacy notice explains when and why we collect personal information about you, how we will use / share it, keep it secure and your rights in relation to this information.
The University reports on its complaints handling performance annually in line with statutory requirements.
This includes performance statistics showing the volume and type of complaints and key performance details, for example on the time taken and the stage at which complaints were resolved.
Th e Scottish Public Services Ombudsman (SPSO) allows access to fair and impartial decision-making on individual cases where users of public services and service providers disagree on the quality of service provided, particularly in areas of alleged maladministration and injustice.
Their service is independent, impartial and free.
Once all stages of the University’s complaints procedures have been exhausted, if the complainant remains dissatisfied with the conclusion of the University's Complaints Handling Procedure, they are entitled to ask the SPSO to look at their complaint.
The SPSO will look at issues such as service failure and maladministration (administrative fault) as well as the way the University has handled the complaint.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/current-students/supporting-your-studies/things-not-going-well:
There are many ways in which the University can help you get the most out of your student experience.
If you feel things aren’t going well, either with your course or within your personal life, please talk to us for advice and support.
If you are experiencing any difficulties with your course, there are a lot of staff across the University who are here to help.
Your lecturer or Course Leader can be an excellent point of contact for any queries or concerns you might have.
They can often advise you of your options and explain the different support services available to you, depending on the situation.
If you’ve missed any of your classes, the important thing is to make contact with your Lecturer or Programme Leader.
They can give you advice about how to catch up on any missed work, or put you in touch with our student support services if your personal circumstances are making it difficult for you to attend.
It’s especially important to keep in touch with the University if you are absent, so we know you are okay and when you plan to return.
Whatever the reason for your absence, we are here to help you get back on track.
Remember that we have a range of support to help you with your studies so, if you find yourself struggling with any of your modules or coursework assignments, do not do so in silence.
Find out more about the services available through our Academic Skills Team .
The University recognises that, from time to time, you may encounter issues which may prevent you from being able to submit or undertake an assessment.
Where this is the case, you can submit an Extenuating Circumstances Statement (ECS) for consideration.
You can find out more about this process on the Academic Appeals and Extenuating Circumstances page .
Whether you have resits or reassessments as a result of extenuating circumstances, or because things didn't go well first time around, it's important to prepare yourself so you have the best possible chance to get a good result.
Proactively look for information relating to the resits, including revision sessions that may be running within your School and speak to your Lecturer for feedback on your original assessment to identify the areas you want to focus on.
You may be able to carry forward some outstanding resits but this depends on your level of study and how much you have to carry forward.
You can talk to your personal tutor or course leader about this, but you should think carefully about how you would cope with undertaking more than the standard 6 modules in an academic year.
If you struggled before, you might want to avoid any additional pressure and consider taking time out to complete your outstanding modules before progressing to your next level of study.
In terms of student funding, you generally would not be eligible for any additional financial support as a result of this, nor would you have any further tuition fee to pay to undertake a resit.
If you can’t progress with your outstanding resits, or would prefer not to carry them with you into your next level of study, there are various options available that would allow you to complete your modules before progressing.
It is important that you consider any financial implications as you may not be eligible for student funding, or the student funding you are eligible for may be different to what you are used to.
Read carefully our Repeating a Period of Study Guide and discuss your options with your academic team.
International Students should discuss this with their School and/or the International Student Support Team as this may have an impact on their visa.
You may feel like you haven’t chosen the right course for you, and that’s okay.
If you want to change courses, whether that’s within UWS or moving on to a different university, this is possible.
If the courses are related, you may even be able to transfer credits from the modules you’ve already completed (or will complete), so it can be worth exploring this possibility.
If you plan to leave your current course, then please do also read the Thinking of leaving section below, which has some helpful information about how to leave your course and how doing so may impact your student funding.
You may also wish to consider the career implications of changing your course.
The Careers Team can help you explore this and provide impartial support in deciding which path is best for you.
Visit Developing your Career to book an appointment with a Careers Adviser.
Course changes are not encouraged after a CAS has been issued as your visa has been granted for the original course and any change needs to be reported to UKVI.
In exceptional circumstances, if there are credible reasons that you wish to change to a different course, this needs to meet UKVI guidance before being permitted and be within the same Academic School.
The School needs to complete a checklist ‘Course Transfer Approval Form for Student visa holders’ to assess if you meet UKVI conditions of changing course without needing a new CAS.
Contact your Programme Leader and School UKVI Admin contact listed below to discuss any course changes.
Once course changes are approved UWS will report this to UKVI so that the Home Office is updated on your course change.
If you're thinking of leaving your course, the first thing you should do is talk to someone about why you feel this way.
If you're struggling, either academically or with personal issues, there's support available.
Talk to a lecturer or course leader who can refer you to the many support services available at UWS.
There are useful links to some of these support services further down on this page.
As part of your decision-making, you can get impartial support from the Careers Team to consider the career implications of leaving your course and/or university and to help you to plan your next career steps after UWS.
Visit the Developing your Career to book an appointment with a Careers Adviser.
If you do decide to withdraw, you need to speak to your Course Leader and complete a Withdrawal Form.
Your date of withdrawal is normally the last date of engagement with your studies.
Please note that, if you withdraw from your course during an academic year, this may affect your funding and you may become liable to pay pro rata charges for the weeks you have attended.
To understand any impact on funding, both now and for the future, read our Thinking about Leaving Your Course Guidance (PDF) .
If you wish to apply for an extended break from your course for medical or personal reasons, please speak to your course leader about interrupted study and the options that may be available to you.
You may be asked to provide evidence to support your application.
Rather than leaving your course, this option allows you to take some time out to deal with any medical or personal reasons that may be affecting your studies before returning when you feel ready.
Taking time out can affect your entitlement to funding so read our guide to interrupting your studies and how this can impact funding (PDF) .
The funding rules for Paramedic, Nursing and Midwifery Students are different as you can often have periods of interruption where you maintain your bursary.
We have a specific guide for students on these courses, so please read our Guide to Interrupting Your Studies, Paramedic, Nursing and Midwifery students (PDF) , which includes everything you need to know about how this can impact funding.
Further advice and guidance on how else you can support your health & wellbeing while at UWS.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/current-students/your-graduate-attributes:
Graduate attributes are the skills, personal qualities and understanding to be developed through your university experience that will prepare for life and work in the 21st century.
You may not realise it at the time, but being a university student will expose you to and help you develop many skills and attributes that will help you make a contribution to your community and society at large.
Apart from the subject knowledge and expertise you will develop at university, there are many skills, abilities and qualities that will help you beyond your university studies.
These will develop within you during your studies and will help prepare you for gaining employment and making a positive contribution to society.
You will likely acquire skills such as report writing, working to deadlines, making presentations, working in teams, creating portfolios, playing sports, being members of societies and volunteering.
Some abilities you will develop include, thinking critically and creatively, and in an analytical manner whilst being able to work effectively independently and collaboratively as part of a team.
We, at UWS, are totally committed to help you develop these transferable skills and abilities so as you may graduate knowing that you can make a difference to society.
The UWS Graduate Attributes were created to reflect the range of skills, qualities and abilities you can develop at UWS which will help to prepare you for success outwith/beyond university.
As a graduate from UWS you will be:
Through studying and graduating from UWS, you will develop attributes across three dimensions:
The underpinning attributes are developed through the key skills and competencies you will learn as part of your degree programme:
At UWS, our aim is to provide you with opportunities to develop academically, personally and professionally: to broaden your ambitions, extend your attitudes, challenge your assumptions, and assist you in unlocking your potential and succeed in your studies and future lives.
Our graduate attributes (I am UWS) have been developed to reflect the vision where you are work-ready and able to successfully contribute both locally and globally.
‘I am UWS’ reflects a breadth of graduate attributes that are developed during your time at UWS.
It provides a mechanism to recognise and consider the skills and mindsets that you already possess and how these can be useful, now and in the future.
Having our own UWS Graduate Attributes provides a framework around which students and staff can focus their discussions and reflect on your personal development, to help make the most of the wealth of opportunities that studying at UWS offers, whilst encouraging you to maximise your time at UWS.
Your time at university will see you grow not only your knowledge-base but your confidence and abilities to deal with life and work in the 21st century.
Developing your graduate attributes is not arduous; it can be fun too.
Reflect on all your time and achievements at university and you will find that you are Universal, Work-ready and Successful; you are UWS.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/current-students/supporting-your-studies/student-records:
The Student Records Team is part of the Registry Department at the University.
We are responsible for maintaining accurate student records regarding your personal, academic and immigration data.
For information and guidance about updating your records, requesting a status letter or transcript, applying for council tax exemption, or sharing your Right to Study documents, please look through the menu items.
We are happy to help and if you have any questions, email us at the Hub at hub@uws.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/money-fees-funding/tuition-fee-status:
Your tuition fee status is determined by your nationality and the country where you are ordinarily resident:
Your tuition fee status will be automatically determined based on the information you provide in your application.
This is in accordance with Scottish Government legislation: Education (Fees and Awards) (Scotland) Regulations 2011 .
UKCISA provides further information and advice on tuition fee status.
Please note that the UK's departure from the European Union has impacted this for many students.
It is important to ensure that your tuition fee status is correct prior to accepting an offer to study at UWS.
If you are unsure about your tuition fee status, see the explanations below for each tuition fee category:
Students who normally live in Scotland will have a fee status of Scottish .
Students who normally live in England, Wales or Northern Ireland will have a fee status of Rest of UK – England, Wales and Northern Ireland .
Students who normally live in the Republic of Ireland will have a fee status of Republic of Ireland .
Irish nationals who are ordinarily resident in the UK on 31 December 2020, who have been ordinarily resident in the UK, EEA, EU or Switzerland for three years prior to the course start date, and who are currently ordinarily resident in Scotland may be granted REPUBLIC OF IRELAND fee status without needing settled or pre-settled status.
Irish nationals who moved to the UK after 31 December 2020, who have been resident in the UK/Islands or the ROI for three years and who are now ordinarily resident in Scotland prior to the start of the course may be granted SCOTTISH fee status.
Ordinarily Resident typically means that you are living in Scotland for reasons other than just your studies.
If you are relocating to Scotland for the primary purpose of your education, it is unlikely you meet this criteria.
Irish nationals who are not ordinarily resident in Scotland prior to the start of the course, but who have been resident in the UK/Islands or the ROI for three years and who may be granted REPUBLIC OF IRELAND fee status.
Students who normally live in a country outside the UK will have a fee status of International .
EU nationals and their family members living in the UK before the end of 2020 who have settled or pre-settled status and meet the residency conditions of 3 years in the UK, EEA or Switzerland may be granted SCOTTISH fee status, but must also be ordinarily resident in the UK at the start of the course and have applied to the EU Settlement Scheme.
EU, EEA and Swiss nationals moving to live in the UK after 31st December 2020 without any form of settled immigration status may be granted INTERNATIONAL fee status (see below).
Irish nationals living elsewhere in the EU (not ROI) who move to Scotland to study may be granted INTERNATIONAL fee status.
UK nationals living in the EU/EEA or Switzerland, who were previously resident in Scotland for at least 3 years before relocating to the EU/EEA or Switzerland, may be granted SCOTTISH fee status.
A family member of a UK national may also meet this criteria if joining their UK returner family member in the UK.
UK nationals living in the EU/EEA or Switzerland, who were previously resident in a part of the UK other than Scotland for at least 3 years before relocating to the EU/EEA or Switzerland, may be granted REST OF UK fee status.
UK nationals living in the EU/EEA or Switzerland, who were not previously resident in a part of the UK for at least 3 years before relocating to the EU/EEA or Switzerland, may be granted REST OF UK fee status.
Dual UK/EU nationals who have exercised their EU residence rights by residing elsewhere in the EU before 31 December 2020, and who are ordinarily resident in the UK, EEA or Switzerland for 3 years before the start of the course may be granted SCOTTISH fee status.
Dual UK/EU nationals who have NOT exercised their EU residence rights by residing elsewhere in the EU before 31 December 2020 may be granted REST OF UK fee status.
If you are a young asylum seeker, and you meet the conditions set out below, you can request that UWS grant you home fee status and can apply to the Student Awards Agency for Scotland (SAAS) to have your fees paid.
You are not eligible to receive living cost support until the Home Office has made a decision on your asylum application and granted you refugee status, Discretionary Leave or Humanitarian Protection in the UK.
You must also meet the following conditions:
If you do not meet these conditions, you will not be eligible to apply to SAAS for any financial support, but you can still request that UWS grant you home fee status.
This means you would have a much smaller tuition fee to pay, but you should carefully consider how you might be able to meet this cost, as well as your living costs.
You can find out more by contacting the Student Awards Agency Scotland ( SAAS ).
If you are an undergraduate student unable to claim tuition fee support from SAAS because you do not meet the criteria, have been granted home fee status by UWS, and have been in Scotland for at least a couple of years, we recommend you apply for the Carnegie Trust Undergraduate Tuition Fee Grant .
This organisation aims to support students who do not receive government funding.
While they normally only consider those of Scottish birth, they may give consideration where an applicant has been living in Scotland, or attended school here.
If you have been granted refugee status, Humanitarian Protection or Discretionary Leave in the UK, and normally live in Scotland, you will have a fee status of Scottish .
You will have to provide us with copies of your Home Office decision.
This means you will be eligible to apply for full student support as a Scottish student and can find out more in the sections below.
You must meet all conditions set out by Scottish Government legislation and Student Awards Agency Scotland (SAAS) and can contact SAAS directly if you have any questions.
If you are the child or husband, wife or civil partner of a person with a grant of asylum in the UK (refugee status, Humanitarian Protection or Discretionary Leave), you don’t need a grant of asylum in the UK to be eligible to apply to Student Awards Agency Scotland (SAAS) for support, but you must be ordinarily resident in Scotland on the relevant date.
If you're Ukrainian and settling in Scotland, you could be eligible for the same package of student funding that Scottish students receive - this includes tuition fee support and living cost support.
The support covers higher education courses from the 2024-2025 academic year.
To be eligible, you must have applied for either the Ukraine Family Scheme, the Homes for Ukraine Scheme or the Ukraine Extension Scheme.
You can also apply for funding if you meet all the following:
To be eligible for the tuition fee support and living cost support, you must be both ordinarily resident:
Ordinarily Resident means to have 'habitual and normal residence in one place'.
The agency in Scotland that manages student support is called Student Awards Agency Scotland (SAAS).
You can find out more on the SAAS website , and this is also where you can make an application for funding.
If you meet the SAAS criteria to be treated the same as a Scottish student, the University will also treat you as Scottish for the purposes of tuition fees.
If you meet the SAAS criteria to be treated the same as a Scottish student, you can find out more about how student funding packages work by visiting the following pages of the UWS website:
From the 2024-25 academic year, the Scottish Government will provide an additional exception to residency criteria for those Ukrainian nationals moving onto the new Home Office scheme, the Ukrainian Permission Extension Scheme which is due to be shortly introduced.
Students who are granted leave under the new scheme will remain eligible for home fees status and living cost support for the duration of their studies.
This change mirrors support that Ukrainian nationals can currently receive from the Scottish Government whilst studying who have been granted leave under the Homes for Ukraine, Ukraine Family and Ukraine Extension schemes.
If you have been granted Humanitarian Protection under the Syrian Vulnerable Person Relocation Scheme (SVPRS), and normally live in Scotland, you will have a fee status of Scottish .
If you enter the UK with Indefinite Leave to Enter (ILE) under the Locally Engaged Staff Assistance Scheme (LESAS), and normally live in Scotland, you will have a fee status of Scottish .
If you have been granted Leave to Enter under the Locally Employed Staff (LES) Scheme, and normally live in Scotland, you will have a fee status of Scottish .
If you have arrived in the UK as part of the Afghan Relocation and Assistance Policy or the Afghan Citizens Resettlement Scheme , and normally live in Scotland, you will have a fee status of home – Scotland .
This support may also be extended to the spouse, civil partner or child of the individual being granted this leave on the same basis.
Female Afghan Students:
From the 2024-25 academic year, the Scottish Government will provide an exception to residency criteria to extend support to female Afghan students who have been prevented from continuing their studies in Afghanistan due to the restrictions imposed by the Taliban regime and have been granted a student visa by the Home Office in order to complete their Higher Education in Scotland.
This change is made in recognition of the unique position these students are experiencing as a result of the Taliban policy of discrimination, placing an indefinite ban on women and girls entering and undertaking secondary or tertiary education, and in the expectation that these students may, if able to undertake their Higher Education in Scotland, enter and contribute to Scotland’s cultural and economic benefit.
Students qualifying under this exception will be eligible for home fees status and living cost support from Student Awards Agency Scotland (SAAS) and can contact SAAS directly if you have any questions.
If you have been granted leave to remain as a Stateless Person, and normally live in Scotland, you will have a fee status of Scottish .

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/money-fees-funding/funding-for-paramedic-nursing-midwifery-courses:
This webpage is aimed at those:
Be sure to read the section relevant to you, and if you are unsure you can always contact us for advice via fundingadvice@uws.ac.uk
If you are thinking about studying to be a Paramedic, Nurse or Midwife at UWS, it is important that you understand that the funding rules for these types of courses can be different from other undergraduate courses.
The information below will help you understand more about the funding you may be entitled to, and how you can apply for this.
Tuition Fee rates for the courses can be found on the individual course web page.
If you are ordinarily resident in Scotland, you may be eligible to receive funding for tuition and living costs through the Paramedic, Nursing and Midwifery student bursary scheme (PNMSB) which comes from the Scottish Government Health Directorate but is administered by the Student Awards Agency Scotland (SAAS).
SAAS operate an online application process and their website has a lot of really useful information about how they work out your entitlement and how you apply for it.
Applications open in April and we recommend applying early to ensure your funding is ready for you starting your course.
The Paramedic, Nursing and Midwifery student bursary scheme (PNMSB) consists of a non-repayable bursary that is not income assessed and a number of additional bursaries/grants that are dependent on your circumstances.
You are not eligible to apply for any Student Loan support on top of this.
You may also apply for a Tuition Fee element of support that is paid directly to the University on your behalf, and is also non-repayable, i.e.
you do not have to pay this back.
If you have studied a course like this previously, and received funding through the Paramedic, Nursing and Midwifery Student Bursary scheme, this will impact the funding you are entitled to receive, and can impact both the Tuition Fee element of support and living cost support.
If you did not complete that previous course you should contact SAAS directly as they can help identify how much of your funding entitlement, if any, is still available to you, and the level of study this might apply to.
If you have completed a course like this that led to registration, you would not be eligible for funding to study a second course.
I.e.
you cannot receive funding to become dual registered.
If you are not eligible for the full package of student funding, you should carefully consider how you will manage financially during the time that you will not receive any bursary and may have to fund your tuition independently.
If you have studied a course previously that was funded through the standard package of SAAS and SLC (i.e.
you have not accessed support through the Paramedic, Nursing and Midwifery Student Bursary scheme), you may still be eligible to receive funding for these courses through the Paramedic, Nursing and Midwifery student bursary scheme.
The SAAS website details the financial support available and how you can apply.
In basic terms, this can be made up of the following:
*Students with a spouse or partner on very low incomes may claim this allowance for that spouse or partner instead of a dependent child, and a further £557 for each dependent child.
Your funding package is paid on a monthly basis throughout the academic year.
As these courses do not have the traditional summer break that other students experience, the package is effectively spread over 12 months.
You are then expected to reapply for your funding package in each year of study, and should do so early to ensure continuity of funding.
This includes applying for Tuition Fee support, which is paid directly to the University.
It's important to understand that becoming a full-time student will impact any benefits you might be receiving, such as Universal Credit.
Your status as a student might mean you are no longer eligible to claim benefits.
If you are still eligible to claim, your student funding will be taken into account for any benefit calculations, which may reduce the amount you receive during your studies.
In some cases, you may not receive any benefits at all, so it is important to plan ahead and budget with this in mind.
Visit our Benefits page for more information, but we also recommend getting specialist benefits advice before you start your course.
You can get this from organisations like Citizens Advice, or advice centres in your local area.
The Carnegie Trust administers a number of different schemes to different types of students, including the Undergraduate Tuition Fee Grant Scheme.
This scheme can be an excellent source of funding for tuition support if you have exhausted your entitlement to SAAS support.
Generally, applicants need to be Scottish by birth or descent, or have attended a secondary school in Scotland for at least 2 years, and undertaking their first degree.
The Trust have a very efficient application process and can be contacted directly if you are unsure about your eligibility.
Applications open in June, prior to your course start date, and remain open until 5pm on 1st December, but it is always best to apply early.
Find out more on the Carnegie Trust website.
If you are ordinarily resident in England, Wales or Northern Ireland, these courses are now funded through the same package of support from your national funding body as other undergraduate courses.
Your tuition fees for this course are the same as the Rest of UK tuition fee rates for Undergraduate level study.
You can find out more about these on the individual course pages.
You should be eligible to receive funding from the relevant national funding body to support you in meeting the cost of tuition, as well as living costs.
For more information please visit our webpage.
While this course does attract the standard package of student funding, the type of course this is (i.e.
pre-registration) may affect your eligibility for any additional sources of funding, so please ensure you read eligibility criteria carefully.
You should also be careful when researching funding for your studies, as you will likely not be eligible for additional NHS Bursary or Grant schemes that would be available to you if you were studying within your home country.
The UK left the European Union on 31 January 2020.
The UK then entered a transition period that ended on 31 December 2020.
Brexit has had/continues to have an effect on some areas of life in Scotland, including Higher Education.
Started the course in 2020-21 or earlier:
Under EU reciprocal arrangements that were in place until Brexit, eligible EU students coming to Scotland to study did not have a tuition fee to pay for these courses.
This is because the University is funded by the government to produce a registered nurse or midwife.
If you started your course in 2020-2021 or earlier, you will remain eligible for this support for the duration of the course.
You cannot claim any support through the Scottish Government for living costs, so it is vitally important you consider how you will support yourself during your studies.
Please visit our Money Advice pages for information on how you can make your money go further.
*If you are an EU National with settled status, and have been living in Scotland or the UK for more than 3 years, you may be eligible to be treated as a Scottish student in respect of funding and apply to SAAS for a full package of support.
If you think this applies to you, contact SAAS for further advice.
You will find lots of helpful information on the SAAS website.
Eligible EU students with settled or pre-settled status may be eligible to have their tuition fees paid by the Student Awards Agency Scotland (SAAS) for their full period of study.
Student Awards Agency Scotland If you meet the criteria noted above and wish to apply to SAAS for tuition fee support, it is important to ensure you meet all eligibility criteria.
SAAS will not fund your studies if you are studying in Scotland for one year as part of your course at your home institution, to which you will transfer credits, return to and graduate from.
SAAS may also consider whether you have already achieved a degree for which you received support from your home country, another EU member state or the European Social Fund.
Further information on eligibility and the application process can be found on the SAAS website.
From 01 January 2021 the new Student immigration route has taken the place of the previous Tier 4 route.
All prospective international higher education students, including EU, EEA and Swiss nationals coming to the UK on or after 01 January 2021, now need to apply to the Student route.
As an International Student you will be unable to apply to the Scottish or UK Government for financial support, and will be subject to the International tuition fee rate.
As you cannot claim any support for tuition or living costs, it is vitally important you consider how you will support yourself during your studies.
The UK's departure from the European Union has impacted students from the Republic of Ireland differently that other students from elsewhere in the EU.
You should be sure to read the Tuition Fee Status information carefully to ensure you best understand how your circumstances impact your Tuition Fee Status.
Students who normally live in the Republic of Ireland will have a fee status of Republic of Ireland and may apply to Student Awards Agency Scotland (SAAS) for a tuition fee loan of up to £9,250 per year.
Remember that your support will be in the form of a loan, which needs to be paid back.
You do not have to take out the student loan, or can elect to take out only a proportion of what you are offered.
The student loan is repayable and does accrue interest but it is much cheaper than other types of finance such as bank loans, overdrafts or credit cards.
Find out more about how the student loan works here.
From 01 January 2021 the new Student immigration route will take the place of the previous Tier 4 route.
All prospective international higher education students, including EU, EEA and Swiss nationals coming to the UK on or after 01 January 2021, will need to apply to the Student route.
When studying these types of courses, the types of additional funding you might be eligible to apply for can be very different to the funds available to students on other types of courses.
It is therefore important not to rely on funding from a source that you have not carefully researched, and that may not be available to you.
The following is an overview of the funds that may be available to you, and details of where you can find out more.
You may be eligible to apply for help meeting the cost of study related childcare through the UWS Childcare Fund.
If you’re eligible to apply to Student Awards Agency Scotland for a bursary, we would expect you to apply for the SAAS Childcare Allowance in the first instance.
Our assessment will then look at the balance of your childcare costs across the academic year and provide a further contribution towards these costs.
No award will cover your childcare costs in full, so you should plan ahead for how you will fund the balance.
This fund is limited and is awarded on a first come, first served basis, so we would strongly recommend applying early to avoid disappointment.
The fund opens each year in the summer before term starts, and you can find out more here.
The Paramedic, Nursing and Midwifery Discretionary Fund is available to eligible UK students studying these courses, and who are in receipt of the maximum student support available to them.
Unfortunately these are not available to EU or International students.
We are unable to provide a significant contribution towards general living expenses but many students can find this offers a little extra financial help that can take some pressure off.
You can find out more here.
If you are already registered with the NMC, or working within a health care environment, the University offers a range of professional development, postgraduate and post-experience courses to help you develop your career and you might have questions about student funding that may be available to you as not all courses will be eligible for students funding.
Funding information for postgraduate level courses can be found via our webpage , by selecting your student type, and postgraduate level study.
Funding information for undergraduate level courses can be found via our webpage , by selecting your student type, and undergraduate level study.
Graduate Certificate/Diploma courses are generally an Undergraduate level course, available to graduates and/or those with relevant experience in that subject area.
While the qualification is a 'Graduate' Certificate/Diploma, in terms of access to funding, you would explore this via our webpage , by selecting your student type, and undergraduate level study.
NB: Some courses offered by UWS are fully NHS funded.
This means students would have full support of their NHS employer to undertake the studies, including payment of tuition.
Where a course requires students to work in a relevant role, and therefore continue to be employed, students are advised to check the eligibility of their course for student funding .
The rules can be complex, so it is always best to ask for advice if you are unsure.
Whether you are a young student, or are returning to education later in life, making the shift to student funding can be a big change.
This magazine will touch on the student funding that you may be entitled to, but will also help you budget and plan ahead, and work out how far your funding will actually stretch.
Once you have a better understanding of the funding you can receive, it’s important to start thinking about what you need to spend it on and how far it will stretch.
Visit our Money & Debt Advice section for advice on budgeting, and making your money go further.
You may be eligible for additional funding, on top of any statutory student funding you receive from the above sources.
Different types of students will be eligible for different types of support, so please do read the info carefully.
If you have any questions about the funding you might be eligible for, please do not hesitate to contact our Funding and Advice Team.
Email: fundingadvice@uws.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/money-fees-funding/discretionary-childcare-funds:
We are now starting to accept applications for the Discretionary and/or Childcare Funds for the 2025-26 academic year.
While we aim to open applications as early as possible, final decisions and release of certain funds is dependent on the Scottish Government, who provide our funding.
You should read the information below carefully.
This will help you identify which, if any, of the funds are relevant for you, as well as how to make an application.
A broad range of guidance has been created in order to help you complete your application and submit this to us so please do take your time to read this, and contact us should you have any questions about the funds or the application process.
You can contact us at fundingadvice@uws.ac.uk .
The following funding may be available to you if you are an Undergraduate or Taught Postgraduate student from Scotland or the Rest of the UK.
The purpose of the Discretionary Fund is to provide additional financial support to eligible students who would otherwise struggle to meet their basic living costs.
Funding is intended to better enable students to attend, engage and succeed in their studies by topping up the student support received through government.
Support is in the form of a non-repayable bursary.
The purpose of the Childcare Element of the Fund is to provide eligible students with a contribution towards childcare costs, where students are unable to meet these costs independently.
The Childcare Element is an add-on to the Discretionary Fund and cannot be applied for separately.
Students must be Scottish or from the rest of the UK, eligible for student funding from SAAS, SFE, SFNI or SFW, and in receipt of the maximum student support available to them.
They should demonstrate a need for financial support that is reasonable and within the scope of the funds.
Applications, guidance notes and procedures are available below.
The application process is electronic, and the guidance notes will help you complete the application, and identify the supporting evidence required.
Applying for the Childcare Element?
If you also wish to apply for help meeting the costs of study related childcare, we simply include that in your application to the Discretionary Fund.
This means you only need to complete one application, and we will assess you for both elements.
Your childcare provider(s) will need to complete the Childcare Provider Form, and you should read our Childcare Fund Factsheet for Students for details of the childcare costs we can consider.
Important guidance and procedures to help you understand how the funds work:
Childcare Fund Factsheets to help you understand what you can apply for:
Guidance documents to help you complete your application submission:
You are applying for funds for the 25-26 academic year.
Should an award be made, this will not be released until after the academic year begins and enrolment, attendance and engagement can be confirmed.
Additionally, we will be unable to release any funds until the Scottish Government provide the budget.
These funds are limited, and they are awarded on a first come, first served basis.
While we do our best to avoid it, the fund can often close with little or no notice, when the budget has been exhausted, so it is recommended that you apply as early as possible to avoid disappointment.
Assuming you continue to meet all eligibility criteria, you should reapply each academic year, as funding will not continue automatically.
It is unlikely that any award will cover your shortfall in full so we would encourage you to use money advice resources to help you budget effectively.
The purpose of the Part-Time Discretionary Fund is to provide additional financial support to eligible students to ensure that those students on low incomes are not significantly out of pocket because of their studies.
Funding is limited to help to meet the costs of books/course materials, travel and childcare.
Students must be Scottish or from the rest of the UK, funding their studies through the SAAS Part-time Fee Grant, or have an annual income under £25k.
We will contribute towards the cost of study related childcare if your household is in receipt of Universal Credits.
Awards will reflect a flat rate of £250 per 20 credit module as a contribution towards books/course materials and travel.
We would encourage students to interpret books/course materials broadly, and this may include anything from stationary to IT equipment.
While you will need to provide evidence to support your eligibility, you do not need to provide receipts etc.
for books/course materials or travel costs to apply.
You can use the award at your discretion, to best suit your individual needs.
Applications, guidance notes and procedures will be available below when the funds open for 25-26.
*Coming Soon*
We cannot award retrospectively, for modules that have finished, or for modules that you are resitting.
The following funding may be available to you if you are a Paramedic or pre-registration Nursing/Midwifery student from Scotland or the Rest of the UK.
This includes courses leading to registration with the NMC at both BSc and MSc levels.
Students must be Scottish or from the rest of the UK, undertaking a full-time Paramedic Sciences course, or Nursing or Midwifery course that leads to registration with the NMC.
This includes Nursing and Midwifery students studying at both BSc and MSc levels.
They must be eligible for student funding from SAAS, SFE, SFNI or SFW, and in receipt of the maximum student support available to them.
It is unlikely that any award will cover your shortfall in full so we would encourage you to use our money advice resources to help you budget effectively.
Paramedics and pre-registration Nursing and Midwifery Students may be able to apply for help meeting the cost of study related childcare through the UWS Childcare Fund.
This fund is unique to UWS, allowing us to offer additional financial support to help meet the costs of childcare that may not be available in all universities.
Students are applying for a contribution towards study related childcare costs for an academic year, which will be determined based on costs for the full academic year, and any other financial support for childcare costs that the student should be entitled to, such as the SAAS Childcare Allowance of £2,466.
It’s important that you carefully consider the costs associated with using childcare, and do not rely on this fund as it is likely only to contribute a small amount towards your total childcare costs, as detailed in the documents above.
The following funding may be available to you if you are an international student, including EU students.
International Students may be able to apply for help meeting the cost of study related childcare through the UWS Childcare Fund.
This fund is unique to UWS, allowing us to offer additional financial support to help you meet the costs of childcare that may not be available in all universities.
Students are applying for a contribution towards study related childcare costs for an academic year, which will be determined based on costs for the full academic year.
The following funding may be available to you if you are undertaking a research degree, such as PhD, DBA, etc.
Doctoral Students may be able to apply for help meeting the cost of study related childcare through the UWS Childcare Fund.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/money-fees-funding/money-debt-advice:
Choosing to become a student can have a big impact on your budget.
Once you know what funding is available to help you through your studies, it is important to start thinking about what you’ll need to spend it on, and how far it will stretch.
You may need to reassess your current spending to account for a reduced income and to avoid any budget mishaps.
However, no one is going to tell you what you should or shouldn't spend your money on – that is up to you.
This section offers advice and guidance to help you manage your money and make the right financial choices for you and your family.
A budget is possibly the single most important tool for effectively managing your money.
Your lifestyle choices will have a massive impact on your UWS budget.
While you study at UWS, the cost of running a home, whether rented or owned, is likely to be the most significant part of your budget.
Buying food, whether for a family or just for you, is an essential expense.
If you don't live close to campus, chances are that travel costs are going to be an essential part of your budget while you study at UWS.
Find out the best deals and where to save your hard-earned money while a student at UWS.
Find out where to save your money and the best options for your finances.
As a student, it is important to stay on top of your debt so things don’t spiral out of control.
There is a lot of help available at UWS and externally if you find yourself in a difficult situation.
Becoming a student can have an impact on your entitlement to certain benefits.
The impact of the cost-of-living crisis is being felt right across our economy and society.
This page offers helpful advice on how to navigate your way through the crisis.
International students coming to live in the UK and study at UWS are responsible for providing and managing their own finances for both study and living costs.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/money-fees-funding/new-usa-scholarships:
The University offers full tuition fee scholarship opportunities for applicants from the United States of America applying to study on any taught postgraduate degree course at one of our Scottish campuses.
For our postgraduate intake in September 2025, we are delighted to offer opportunities for application for the Frances Wright Scholarship and for the Frederick and Anna Murray Douglass Scholarship (detailed below) for postgraduate study across all of our academic schools:
School of Business and Creative Industries
School of Computing, Engineering and Physical Sciences
School of Education and Social Sciences
School of Health and Life Sciences
Honouring a trailblazer in Education, Feminism and Literature.
The Frances Wright Scholarship at UWS honours the enduring legacy of one of history's most influential feminists and writers.
Established to commemorate the pioneering spirit and intellectual contributions of Frances Wright, this fund seeks to empower future generations of women who embody her passion for social justice, gender equality, and literary excellence.
This fund provides a full fees scholarship to deserving applicants who identify as women.
Born in Dundee, Scotland, in 1795, Frances Wright was a visionary feminist, social reformer, and prolific writer.
Throughout her life, she fearlessly challenged societal norms, advocating for women's rights, abolitionism, and educational reform.
Frances Wright's courageous activism and groundbreaking ideas continue to inspire and influence movements for equality and justice around the world.
More ABout the Frances Wright Scholarship
Honouring a Legacy of Leadership and Activism.
The Frederick and Anna Murray Douglass Scholarship at UWS commemorates the enduring legacy of two remarkable individuals whose courage, resilience, and dedication to social justice continue to inspire generations.
Established to honour the contributions of Frederick Douglass and his wife Anna Murray Douglass, this scholarship seeks to empower promising students who embody their spirit of leadership, activism, and commitment to positive change.
This fund provides a full fees scholarship to applicants who belong to an underrepresented racial or ethnic minority group.
Frederick Douglass, born into slavery in 1818, rose to become one of the most influential figures in American history.
A renowned abolitionist, author, and statesman, Douglass tirelessly fought against slavery and championed civil rights for all people.
His wife, Anna Murray Douglass, played a pivotal role in his life, offering unwavering support and encouragement as he pursued their mission of freedom and equality.
More About the Douglass Scholarship
Applications are now open for Term 1 (September) for both the Frances Wright Scholarship and the Frederick and Anna Murray Douglass Scholarship .
Applicants are invited to note interest via completion of our online form.
Once you have noted interest, a member of our international admissions team will be in touch to advise on the application process.
online form

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/money-fees-funding/uws-scholarships-bursaries-other-sources-of-funding:
The cost of attending university is an investment in your future.
Fortunately, there is a great deal of financial support available to help students meet the cost of their study.
This ranges from:
The sections below provide details of additional costs that your course may involve along with any financial support that may be available this year.
You can also find additional information in our Undergraduate Money, Fees & Funding section and our Postgraduate Money, Fees & Funding section .
Throughout the year.
a number of Scholarships may be available for all UWS undergraduate and postgraduate students - these include scholarhsips for :
View UWS Scholarships

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/money-fees-funding/funding-and-advice-team:
The Funding and Advice Team are here to help you throughout your University journey.
You can browse through a wealth of online information at your leisure by using our web resources, where you will find everything you need to know about funding and money while studying.
Use the Money, Fees and Funding section of the website as your starting point.
You can email the team at fundingadvice@uws.ac.uk with any questions you might have.
We aim to respond within 5 working days but can often do so much more quickly so this can be the best and quickest way to ask your questions.
We welcome email enquiries from prospective students as well as current students.
Please bear in mind that it might take us time to carefully research and respond to complex enquiries.
At peak times of year we offer a drop in service which allows current students to meet with an adviser to discuss quick questions, without having to pre-book and attend an appointment.
Drop ins offer a great opportunity to get quick advice or information, but are not appropriate if you would rather discuss something in a confidential setting.
We offer these virtually through Teams and in person and you can check our availability via the Student Services Events Calendar (enrolled students only).
If you would like to see an Adviser one-to-one in a confidential setting, you can pre-book an appointment.
Appointments usually last 30 minutes and offer dedicated time to discuss your situation in more detail, and in a private setting.
We may also request that you book an appointment if you have emailed us or attended a drop in, but we feel your situation would be best supported through one-to-one, confidential support.
You can pre-book an appointment through The Hub, who will be able to let you know what availability we have, and help you select a time that suits.
Students should contact The Hub directly using the contact details noted on The Hub webpage.
Throughout the year we will run a number of different information sessions or events.
You can check this out via the Student Services Events Calendar (enrolled students only).

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/money-fees-funding/student-tuition-fees-faqs:
The easiest and quickest way to pay is online using our online payment portal, you will need Student Name, Student ID and Date of birth in order to do this.
Select tuition fees and enter the amount you want to pay and continue through the payment pages.
Please watch the videos below for guidance:
Students can now pay tuition fees using the below links for payments:
If you have a question about your UWS tuition fees, you can find answers to many of the most common queries here.
If you have not paid in full at enrolment, then you should setup a payment plan as part of the enrolment process.
Payment plans also known as 'recurring card payments' are available for all self/partially funded students to help spread the cost of your tuition fees.
The payment plan is the same for all full-time students regardless of residency.
It constitutes of seven equal monthly instalments which will be due on the 10th of each month.
The payment plan will be setup for each term/intake, you should choose the plan which relates to your intake.
Payment will automatically be taken monthly and you will be emailed with your payment plan details.
Please ensure you have sufficient funds to cover your payment.
For part-time students: If you have not paid in full at enrolment then you should also setup a payment plan.
This will consist of three equal monthly instalments which will be taken on the 10th of each month.
Please choose the payment plan which relates to your intake term and the plan will be named as Part-Time Instalment Plan (Term 1, 2 or 3).
In order to set up your payments in line with the above, you will need to set up a recurring payment, using your debit or credit card, through our online payment facility.
Please see below.
Please see guidance in video below before setting up a payment plan.
Students can now pay tuition fees using the below link for payments:
For London students, please visit Tuition fees - UWS London
Normally, the University requires a payment of a minimum of 50% of the net tuition fee prior to CAS issuance, with the balance payable in instalments thereafter.
While payment of a minimum of 50% of the net tuition fee is the standard requirement, a higher than minimum payment may often be perceived as a very strong indicator of a student’s commitment to their study in the UK and consequently this helps them to demonstrate their credibility as a genuine student – a critical factor in both the University application process and the UK visa application process.
While the University does not presently require an applicant to pay a deposit higher than the minimum 50%, we nevertheless strongly recommend that applicants do pay a higher than minimum 50% deposit wherever possible, especially where our official and highly trusted representatives recommend this course of action as a result of their significant knowledge and experience of the market and sector.
Please be aware that it is the University’s decision to sponsor a student (issue a CAS) or not, and an integral part of that evaluation lies in having satisfactory evidence of the credibility of a genuine student, including the ability to finance their studies and living costs.
The easiest and quickest way to pay is online using the Online Payment Facility , you will need Student Name, Student ID and Date of birth in order to do this.
Select Accommodation fees and enter the amount you want to pay and continue through the payment pages to complete.
If you need an invoice, please contact hub@uws.ac.uk
Tuition and Accommodation fees for the current academic year can be set up for instalments, you can create payment plan by choosing the drop-down box for recurring card.
Payments will automatically be taken on the due dates of the instalments selected.
Please login to our online payment portal and choose the option for the term you started e.g.
September 2023 enrolment you should choose T1 Plan 202324.
You will then be shown the number of instalments and payment values.
Yes, most students setup a payment plan at enrolment.
You should choose the option of 'tuition fees' and enter the full amount of your tuition fees (less any deposits) and the system will calculate your instalments.
If a payment plan had been set up, you would have received an email confirmation.
Please check your emails for this (including junk/spam).
You would have received an email to say that your payment had failed and will be taken again in 72 hours.
Please also ensure your card has not expired or a new card has been provided to you, which has not been updated on our portal.
To update your card details please use this link.
If the second attempt fails, then you must make an immediate payment for this amount within 5 days to avoid a sanction being applied to your account.
If you have now made your payment, please ignore this automatic email.
If this payment was due for a payment plan - Please also ensure your card has not expired or a new card has been provided to you which has not been updated on our portal.
A second attempt at claiming this payment will be made within 72 hours.
If this is unsuccessful a second time, then you must make an immediate payment for this amount within 5 days to avoid a sanction being applied to your account.
If this is for an immediate payment, then funds will not have been taken from your account and we ask that you try again.
If paying via our online payment facility, then an email receipt will have been sent automatically by the online system.
Please click on this link to amend payment card details.
We do not offer this facility but do use a recurring card payment system which is linked to a debit/credit card.
An instalment plan can be set up using your chosen card, payments are then automatically taken on the due dates of the instalments.
How to setup a payment plan (video)
If you are having difficulty paying your invoice, then please contact our hub at hub@uws.ac.uk and they will provide you with a form to complete and you should also send supporting documents to evidence your claims.
If you have now paid or set up a payment plan after the date of the letter, then please ignore.
If you have not yet paid, then please pay the invoice using the following payment links:
Anyone, for example: Student/Self, Employer, Friend, Guardian, Other Family, Parent, Spouse/Partner, Sponsor.
Please note:  the payee will have access to your personal details and must only share with trusted sources.
No, there is no charge.
If your question has not been answered above, then please email hub@uws.ac.uk quoting your student ID and issue.
Please complete a refund form and return to refunds@uws.ac.uk - allowing 14 days from date of receipt for this to be processed.
Download Refund Form (doc)
Please check to see if the difference between what you have been charged and what should be charged matches your scholarship or alumni if so, please contact admissions@uws.ac.uk providing them with a copy of your offer letter.
Please also check to see if you have been added to incorrect course or modules as this may affect on your tuition fee.
If incorrect, please contact your programme leader as they will amend if needed and once amended this will recalculate your tuition fee.
Please arrange to receive a withdrawal form from your programme leader as soon as possible.
The date on the withdrawal form will be the date used for recalculating your fees.
If official paperwork not completed on a timely basis this may have an impact on fees charged.
SAAS funded students must apply to SAAS each year for funding prior to starting with your course.
If you have not applied for funding, please apply now:
Scottish Students: Student Awards Agency Scotland - SAAS - Funding Your Future
Once you have received your award letter, please check your tuition fee funding on your award letter will cover the cost of your full tuition fees.
If there is a funding gap, you should setup a payment plan as soon as possible.
Please see FAQ:  How to setup a payment plan for guidance to set this up.
SLC funded students must apply each year for funding prior to starting with your course.
If you have not applied for funding, please apply now
Please ensure your sponsor has completed the Confirmation of Sponsorship form (see link below).
Once completed please email to: companyaccounts@uws.ac.uk
*Please note: Your form will be rejected unless purchase order number quoted.
Confirmation of Sponsorship Form (doc)

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/about-uws/chancellor:
Yekemi Otaru is an award-winning entrepreneur, accomplished charity leader, and the current Chancellor of University of the West of Scotland.
A passionate advocate for women in business, she actively mentors entrepreneurs and business owners, particularly in some of the world's most disadvantaged communities .
With four degrees and a strong background in engineering and marketing, Yekemi has extensive industrial experience spanning multiple sectors.
She is the Chief Executive Officer of Somebody Cares SCIO, a high-impact charity based in Aberdeen that provides holistic support and immediate relief to over 13,000 people facing hardship and poverty.
As the founder of YO Ventures Ltd, Yekemi is dedicated to empowering start-ups and small businesses through strategic business education and consultancy.
Her outstanding contributions to entrepreneurship have earned her numerous accolades, including Social Entrepreneur of the Year at the 4th Scottish Women Awards and Services Industry Entrepreneur of the Year at the Great British Entrepreneur Awards 2023.
In her role as Chancellor of UWS, Yekemi holds formal powers to confer degrees, diplomas, and academic distinctions.
She also serves as a key advocate and representative of the university, championing innovation, education, and entrepreneurship on national and international platforms.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/about-uws/vice-chancellors-expenses:
Whilst undertaking official University duties, the Principal & Vice-Chancellor will consequently incur costs relating to travel, accommodation and subsistence.
The following information in relation to such expenses is being published on a voluntary basis.
These published expenses include costs incurred by the Principal & Vice-Chancellor when on University business that were paid for by University credit card.
As part of our finance processes we are required to carry out a reconciliation of any costs charged to a University credit card.
As a result of this reconciliation, a number of small amounts such as foreign exchange charges and other travel costs appear in the published amounts.
This does not mean that a personal expense claim has been submitted for each of these amounts.
The Principal & Vice-Chancellor’s expenses will be updated regularly.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/about-uws/external-examiner-induction:
We've created a suite of videos that provide an introduction to the External Examiner roles here at UWS.
Handbooks referred to in the videos are:
To contact the Quality Enhancement and Standards Team, e-mail quest@uws.ac.uk or external-examiner@uws.ac.uk
An overview of the four key resources that cover the information you'll need to undertake your role as an external examiner here at UWS.
External Examiner Induction Resource 1 covers general information on the University.
It gives you a sense of the UWS culture, our student and staff profile, and the structure of our academic schools.
Resource 2 covers the Quality Enhancement Framework in Scotland.
It outlines the UWS approach to external examining, including information on the roles and responsibilities of each specific appointment.
Resource 3 outlines the operation of the examination boards.
You can see what kind of information you'll be expected to review and the activities you should expect to undertake.
Resource 4 provides you with information on what happens to your report.
It also includes an overview of the key themes raised in recent years' External Examiner Reports.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/about-uws/governance/university-senate:
The University Senate is constituted to discharge the functions of the University Court relating to the overall planning, co-ordination, development and supervision of the academic work of the University.
It has particular responsibility under the University Constitution for the granting of degrees, diplomas, certificates and other awards.
The Principal and Vice-Chancellor is the Chair of the Senate.
The Senate is assisted in the discharge of its duties by a number of sub committees, which are detailed within the UWS Committee Framework .
The Senate meets four times a year.
This document is UWS's Regulatory Framework for Academic Programmes and Awards.
It outlines the requirements for our awards from admission, prior learning, credit framework, programme composition, assessment and student appeals.
It also includes the Student Code of Conduct and regulations for research degrees.
The Senate Office provides professional officer support and administration for the Senate, the constitutions of the University committees and the Regulatory Framework for the maintenance of quality and standards of courses of study leading to the University’s academic awards and other distinctions.
Any queries in relation to the Senate should be directed to:
Donna McMillan, Secretary to Senate , donna.mcmillan@uws.ac.uk
Elizabeth Marshall, Assistant Secretary to Senate , elizabeth.marshall@uws.ac.uk
Lesley Lloyd, Court & Senate Office Co-ordinator , lesley.lloyd@uws.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/money-fees-funding/scholarships/enhanced-international-scholarships:
Reduction of fees to £10,950
New Student
International
Undergraduate, Postgraduate Taught
Business, Computing, Education, Engineering, Health, Life Sciences
Applied at point of offer
UWS is delighted to announce that self-funding international applicants applying to selected degree programmes* at our Scottish and London campuses for entry in 2025/26 will be eligible for an enhanced scholarship.
For 2025/26 entry to UWS Scottish and London campuses, the net tuition fee payable for selected degree programmes* is £10950, which represents a scholarship equivalent to approximately 30-40% of the usual fee.
Please note you will be required to pay a minimum deposit of 75% of the total net tuition fee payable prior to CAS issuance and the remaining balance must be paid in full before the start of your second term.
If you are on a multi-year programme of study, the scholarship and fee for each year of study will be held as it was at the point of entry.
This fee reduction only applies to selected programmes* at our Scottish and London campuses.
Please see below for list of programmes:
Please visit the UWS London web site scholarships section for full list of applicable programmes:
Visit UWS London Web Site

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/international/country-information:
Every year at UWS we welcome students from all around the world.
Find out more about our partnerships across the globe as well as country-specific entry requirements and in-country representation.
If your country is not listed above, please contact a member of the International Centre if you have any questions regarding your qualifications, study options, English language requirements and in-country representation.
Email: international@uws.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/international/study-abroad:
UWS is a large, modern, multi-campus university with a rich history dating back to 1897.
As well as meeting people from across the globe, students have the opportunity to meet the local, Scottish students and discover more about the Scottish way of life.
Across our five campuses we boast some of the most modern, innovative and sustainable Higher Education learning and teaching facilities in the UK.
We are proud to be a university where ambition, student support and student success are at the heart of everything we do.
At UWS we treat our students as individuals, partners and future leaders in their fields, providing them with the knowledge, skills and confidence to shape the world around them and with the inspiration to achieve their dreams.
Scotland is an exciting place to live, work and study.
It’s rich in tradition yet culturally diverse and there really is something for everyone.
Our Scottish campuses are perfectly placed for our students to enjoy everything that Scotland has to offer.
Find out more at www.uws.ac.uk/campuses
Be aware that UWS operates on several campuses.
Normally you will want to choose all your modules on either the Paisley Campus or on the Ayr Campus.
To find out more about our accommodation visit www.uws.ac.uk/accommodation
For further details on accommodation costs please contact Studyabroadatuws@uws.ac.uk .
Accommodation is guaranteed if application is made online by the last Monday in June, for Term 1 and by the last Monday in November for Term 2
Katie Walsh is studying Cultural Diplomacy & International Events at UWS Paisley Campus and is from Long Island.
Yuleicy Suarez is studying Aircraft Engineering at UWS Paisley Campus and is from New York.
Katie Knotts is studying Filmmaking at UWS Ayr Campus and is from Maryland.
We may be able to accept applications after these deadlines.
You can contact our Study Abroad team by email at studyabroadatuws@uws.ac.uk or by phone/Whatsapp on +44 (0) 7966 285871 .

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/current-students/supporting-your-health-wellbeing/international-student-support:
The International Student Support team can help students with:
New students please look at our key resources/visa guides.
You can also read our International Student Welcome Guide .
Enrolled, continuing students can access these key resources (please note that you need to be logged in to your UWS Microsoft 365 account to access the SharePoint site).
Booking an appointment with the International Student Support Team:
30 Minute Appointments: Appointments are available in person on campus, or online via Microsoft Teams.
Book by contacting the Student Hub online or in person.
Visit the Student Hub page for up-to-date contact details.
London Campus students can also book by visiting the London Campus Reception - Import Building.
Follow International Student Support on Social Media:
X (Twitter): @UWS_IntSupport Instagram: uwsstudentservices
The International Student Support Team organise various trips around Scotland.
These are an opportunity for students to see more of Scotland, learn about Scottish culture and meet new friends.
The trips take place throughout the year and are open to all students.
Previous trips have included Edinburgh Castle, Loch Lomond, Stirling Castle & the Kelpies and St.
Tickets can be bought through the UWS online store .
For further information on these trips contact Student Hub Team

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/international/living-in-scotland/glasgow:
Steeped in history, yet undeniably modern, it’s known for being one of Scotland’s friendliest places.
Its music scene and pubs, clubs and restaurants could keep you busy every night of the week and its famous 'Style Mile' is the UK’s most successful shopping location outside of London’s West End.
Glasgow is an ancient city with a history that can be traced back to prehistoric times.
However, it is Saint Mungo who is credited with founding the city after establishing a church in the area in the 6th century.
During the Middle Ages, Glasgow was a small trading town and held weekly markets that attracted craftsmen and traders from all over Scotland.
However, it was the Industrial Revolution that really put Glasgow on the map.
During this time, many industries flourished in Glasgow, including sugar processing, linen making, cotton spinning, tobacco trading and glass manufacturing.
But it was ship building that made the city famous - an industry that survives to this day.
With direct access to the Atlantic via the Clyde, Glasgow was also perfectly positioned to become a trade hub for the American colonies.
In recent years, the city has seen a number of large scale urban renewal and regeneration programmes, including the Clyde Waterfront regeneration project, making it one of Europe’s most vibrant, dynamic and stylish cities.
With such a rich and extensive history, it is no surprise that Glasgow is home to a huge variety of world-class visitor attractions.
From Glasgow Cathedral, the jewel in Glasgow's architectural crown, to Kelvingrove Art Gallery and Museum there is something for everyone.
Glasgow's top attractions include:
With so much to offer, the best way to see Glasgow is by taking an open-topped city bus tour.
These offer an insight into Glasgow's colourful past while taking in all the major attractions and historic sites.
They are generally hop-on and hop-off, so you can stop whenever you want to explore the city further on foot.
The culinary scene in Glasgow is famous for its variety, quality and innovation.
From fine dining restaurants to street food trucks, and with plenty of options in between, there is enough to keep even the most discerning foodie happy.
GlasgowLive offer a comprehensive guide to eating out in the city.
From comedy to cabaret and live gigs to musicals, there is a nearly endless selection of night time entertainment options in Glasgow.
Whether you are partial to a cocktail or two, or prefer a more sophisticated night at the opera, there is something to suit all tastes.
Glasgow offers an extensive choice of drinking establishments.
Whether you fancy a traditional pub serving classic ales or a boutique bar offering trendy cocktails, there is something to keep everyone happy.
TimeOut have produced a guide to the best pubs in Glasgow to get you started.
Glasgow has a lively music scene with something exciting going on every night of the week.
Nightclubs range in size from large warehouse venues to small basement rooms and play an equally wide range of music.
What’s on Glasgow provides a comprehensive list of music events taking place in the city.
Home to world famous institutions such as the Scottish Opera, Scottish Ballet and the National Theatre of Scotland, Glasgow offers plenty in the way of more high-brow entertainment too.
What's on stage is the go-to guide for show listings in the city.
Glasgow means 'dear green place' in Gaelic and has over 90 parks and gardens in which to escape the hustle and bustle of city life.
Highlights include Glasgow Green, the city's oldest park, and Victoria Park with its bright floral displays.
People Make Glasgow have a guide to green spaces in the city.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/international/living-in-scotland/edinburgh:
This ancient city, known as the ‘Athens of the North’, is home to numerous iconic historic sites, most notably Edinburgh Castle, Holyrood Palace, and the churches of St Giles, Greyfriars and the Canongate.
Although not on the west coast, Scotland's capital city is easily accessible from Glasgow with regular bus and train services between the two cities.
Edinburgh is a lively, cosmopolitan and cultured city with superb museums, art galleries, pubs, clubs, restaurants and plentiful shopping opportunities.
With a huge variety of visitor attractions, there is so much to see and do in the city.
In the month of August, the city comes alive with the Edinburgh Festival and the Fringe, which is the world's largest annual international arts festival.
However, there are also plenty of year round entertainment options including popular theatres, cinemas, music venues, and pubs famous for their live folk music performances.
Edinburgh is an ancient settlement and has been a major seat of population for tens of thousands of years.
In the Middle Ages, Edinburgh began as a fort with Castle Rock providing an easily defended position.
In the late 11th Century King Malcolm III built what is now Edinburgh Castle followed by Duncan I's construction of the Abbey at Holyrood, and a thriving community grew in the surrounding area.
Throughout its history, Edinburgh has suffered constant conflict between the Scots and the English, with Edinburgh Castle changing hands numerous times between the 13th and 16th centuries.
The city also suffered from outbreaks of plague in the late 16th and early 17th centuries.
Despite this adversity, Edinburgh continued to grow and in the 19th century the city's architecturally acclaimed 'New Town' was constructed to accommodate the ever-increasing population.
While Glasgow is the city of industry, Edinburgh is traditionally home to more intellectual pursuits.
During the Scottish Enlightenment, Edinburgh became known as a "hot bed for genius", famed for its great philosophers, artists, authors and scientists.
Today, tourism is a major industry for the city and Edinburgh welcomes millions of visitors each year from all over the world.
From its quirky medieval Old Town to the elegant Georgian New Town, Edinburgh is full of interesting things to do and see.
It is home to some of Scotland's most visited tourist attractions and highlights include:
Edinburgh is relatively compact and a walking tour is a great way to discover the city.
From literary pub crawls to ghost tours exploring the darker side of the city's history, there are a wide variety of walking tours that cater to a range of interests.
TripAdvisor also list a number of walking tours which you can join.
TripAdvisor Walking Tourse in Edinburgh
The Tourist Walks website describes a free app that you can download and help you navigate the major city attractions on foot by yourself or with friends.
Edinburgh boasts an outstanding choice of world-class restaurants.
From celebrated Michelin restaurants to family-run bistros, there are lots of options for all tastes and budgets.
Edinburgh is also a great place to sample some Scottish delicacies and local produce too, with plenty of specialist food outlets and farmers markets.
This is Edinburgh has a guide to eating in the city.
Edinburgh is a real party city and a fantastic place to go for a great night out.
Hidden in its winding streets there are a surprising number of quirky bars, nightclubs, and live music venues alongside world-class concert halls and theatres to explore.
Whether you're looking for a peaceful spot to enjoy a quiet drink or two, or want a lively place to dance into the wee hours, Edinburgh is packed with options.
With such variety on offer you can be certain of one thing - you won’t go thirsty in this city!
TimeOut has put together a list of some of the city's best pubs and bars as a starting point.
Edinburgh has a vibrant music scene from live folk music to internationally renowned club nights and everything in between, all genres of music are represented.
What's on Edinburgh provides a comprehensive list of music events being held in the city.
Home to several world-class concert halls and theatres, including the Playhouse and the Usher Hall, Edinburgh has plenty of cultural entertainment options too.
What’s on Stage gives comprehensive listings of shows in the city.
Edinburgh is an extremely green city with an extensive network of parks and gardens.
From the manicured lawns of Princess Street Gardens to the rugged summit of Arthur's Seat, you are never far away from an open space in which to relax and regroup.
The city council have compiled a guide to the best green spaces in the city.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/international/living-in-scotland/culture-heritage:
As you would expect from a country with such a rich history, Scotland is home to some unique cultural traditions which every student should experience during their time here.
At formal occasions, such as weddings, it is traditional for Scots to don the iconic Highland Dress.
This consists of a kilt, sporran, wool socks, Argyll jacket, kilt pin and a small knife known as a sgian-dubh (pronounced skee-en-doo).
The kilt is made from a special material called tartan.
Tartan is a woven wool fabric with horizontal and vertical bands of colours.
Different coloured tartans are associated with different clans and usually Scots choose to wear a tartan related to their clan name (or a clan name in their family tree, if their surname is not originally Scottish).
Highland Games are held all over Scotland and vary from small local events to large world famous events, such as Braemar Highland Games.
Thought to have originated as a means for the clan chiefs to recruit the best fighting men, the games were popularised in the 19th century by Queen Victoria.
Not to be confused with the Olympic Games, Highland Games have their own unique set of sporting events and traditions.
The most famous sports are known as the 'heavies', including the caber toss, which require huge strength and skill.
Aside from sporting events, Highland Games also include bagpipe contests and dance competitions, where dancers perform the ancient Highland Fling.
A ceilidh (pronounced kay-lee) is a social gathering where traditional Scottish dancing is accompanied by folk music.
Ceilidhs usually also involve some whisky drinking and finish with a rousing rendition of 'Old Lang Syne' - a traditional song that uses lyrics from Robert Burn's famous poem by the same name.
If you'd like to experience a proper Scottish party for yourself, Sloans in Glasgow run a ceilidh every Friday night offering guided dances and lots of fun!
A national delicacy, the infamous Haggis is a savoury dish containing sheep's heart, liver and lungs, combined with oatmeal, onions and spices.
Traditionally served with neeps (turnips), tatties (potatoes) and whisky sauce, the haggis is a distinctive and delicious dish.
For non-meat eaters or those of a more squeamish disposition, there is the option of vegetarian haggis containing a mix of vegetables, pulses, oatmeal and spices.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/international/living-in-scotland/escape-the-city:
From woodlands and wetlands to mountains and heaths, Scotland is an incredibly biodiverse country.
For those wishing to escape the city and experience the great outdoors there is plenty of beautiful countryside to explore and wildlife to discover.
Scottish Natural Heritage have lots of information about enjoying Scotland's countryside.
From suggested day trips to advice about access rights, you'll find all the information you need to enjoy the great outdoors safely and responsibly.
Loch Lomond and the Trossachs National Park, with its breath-taking scenery, is easily accessible by public transport from Glasgow.
From a gentle stroll around the shores of the loch to mountain biking and wild camping, the park has plenty to offer and is great for both day trips or longer stays alike.
More information can be found on the Loch Lomond and the Trossachs National Park website
Located just a few miles south of Glasgow, Pollok Country Park offers extensive woodland and gardens that are home to a wide variety of wildlife.
Featuring woodland walks, a wildlife garden, scenic picnic spots and even Highland cattle, the park is a great place to escape the hustle and bustle of urban life.
What's on Glasgow gives further information on amenities, activities and events at Pollok Country Park.
Kelburn Castle and Country Centre combines beautiful woodlands with one of Scotland's most charming and unique castles.
Located near Largs on the west coast, Kelburn is easily accessible from Glasgow and offers a wide range of popular attractions.
From spectacular glen walks to the Secret Forest, it's a great place for an adventure.
More information can be found on the Kelburn Castle website.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/international/how-to-apply/international-undergraduate-application-guide:
If you would like to study an undergraduate course at University of the West of Scotland, it is easy to make an application.
However, first there are a few steps that you need to go through to ensure you have everything you need to make an application.
Check our dedicated webpage for important information regarding your Confirmation of Accepatance of Studies (CAS), including: application deadlines, payment deadlines and document submission deadlines:
CAS Information if you are applying to any UWS Scottish campus
CAS Information if you are applying to UWS London Campus
All prospective undergraduate students (UK, Republic of Ireland, other EU and Non-EU), not applying through an agent or partner, should apply to study at UWS through Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS) .
EU students applying through an agent or named UWS partner should apply to study at UWS via our Online Application System .
If you are applying from a non-EU/EEA country for entry to one of UWS's undergraduate degree courses, and have not applied already via UCAS, or have not applied to another UK university, then you may apply through our Online Application System .
In addition, if you are a non-EU applicant and are applying through one of our recognised partners or agents for a full-time undergraduate degree course at UWS can also apply using our Online Application System .
Before you begin your application, it is important to read our step-by-step guide for a smooth and stress-free process.
Decide which course you would like to study at UWS, making sure that it is the appropriate level of study for you.
Make sure that your academic qualifications and English language levels meet the requirements for your chosen course.
Please note that you must be able to provide proof of all qualifications.
Please note that you must be able to provide original copies of your degree certificate(s) and academic transcript(s) plus official translations of these in English.
Ensure that you have copies of all the documents required for your application.
You are required to submit a personal statement as part of the UWS undergraduate application process.
This is to demonstrate your motivation to study your chosen course at UWS.
Points that you should cover in your personal statement include:
Once you have prepared everything listed above, you can submit your application through UCAS (Universities and Colleges Admissions Service) or our Online Application System .
See overview section (above) for details of how you should apply depending upon your status (UK, EU, non-EU).
UWS offer partial scholarships for international students so make sure you check your eligibility.
more about funding opportunities for international students at UWS
more about scholarship opportunities at UWS
This will include guidance on how to accept an offer and fee payment if required.
The Admissions team will make one of the following decisions:
Once you have accepted your unconditional offer, it is important to prepare for life and study at UWS.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/international/how-to-apply/international-postgraduate-application-guide:
Check our dedicated webpage for important information regarding your Confirmation of Acceptance of Studies (CAS), including: application deadlines, payment deadlines and document submission deadlines:
Please note that you may receive a conditional offer of study until you meet/are able to provide proof of academic / other qualifications and supporting documentation etc.
more about postgraduate entry requirements at UWS
You are required to submit a personal statement as part of the UWS postgraduate taught application process.
Once you have prepared everything listed above, you can submit your application through our Online Application System .
START YOUR APPLICATION
more about funding opportunities at UWS
more about scholarships opportunities at UWS
Find out more about life at UWS

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/international/how-to-apply/international-postgraduate-research-application-guide:
Applying to undertake a postgraduate research degree at University of the West of Scotland is a simple process through our Online Application System .
Note: Unconditional Offers must be promptly accepted to activate the Flywire payment portal, which can take up to 72 hours.
Decide which subject and level of study you would like to undertake at UWS.We offer research degree opportunites at MRes, MPhil or PhD level.
Please note that you are required to submit a research proposal as part of the research degree application process.
Check out our research degree options
For an overview of our current, active research activities, review our research institutes, centres and groups across all of our academic subject areas.
Many of these are interdisciplinary in nature:
Check our Research Institutes, Centres & Groups
Please note that you must be able to provide original copies of your degree certificate(s) and academic transcript(s) plus official translations of both documents in English.
If you’re an international student and have gained your qualifications outwith the UK, then you will need to check that these are of a comparable level and standard to UK ones; your qualifications will need to be awarded from an institution recognized by the UK National Recognition Information Centre .
You are required to outline, in no more than 500 words, your preferred area of study and a proposal you wish to put forward for a research project.
You may wish to indicate the general discipline and methodology which you would be interested in exploring, or to give a more detailed outline proposal, with reference to relevant research literature and information sources.
The research programme will be subject to further discussion with academic staff.
Please indicate whether or not you have already discussed your proposal with the appropriate school.
UWS offer a wide range of scholarships and early payment incentives for postgraduate research students.
More about funding opportunities at UWS
More about Scholarship opportunities at UWS
Good luck with your application!

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/international/how-to-apply/cas-information-scottish-campuses:
Important deadlines for international students who have been given an unconditional offer of study and are seeking admission to UWS for T2 (January 2026) - CAS payments, document submission and issuing:
Please note: for more information on your CAS you can contact international@uws.ac.uk
This page contains a list of frequently asked questions and answers which outlines the important information that you need to know regarding your Confirmation of Accepatance of Studies (CAS).
UWS is licensed to sponsor students under the Student Route of the points-based system.
The CAS is not an actual certificate.
Each CAS has a unique reference number and contains information about the course of study for which it has been issued and the student’s personal details.
You must be in possession of a CAS before you apply for your UK Student Visa.
The Admissions team will issue your CAS.
Please note that your CAS is unique to you, UWS and your visa application.
It is important and must be kept safely and used to apply for your UK student visa.
Your CAS will be issued when you have met all of the conditions of your offer including confirmation that you have paid the deposit of a minimum of 75% of your tuition fees and meet all UK Visa & Immigration requirements.
Please note that if you are currently living overseas you can apply for your visa within 6 months of the course start date.
If you are currently living in the UK you can apply for your visa within 3 months of the course start date.
If you provide all of the required documentation the university will issue you with your CAS.
Normally, the University requires a payment of a minimum of 75% of the net tuition fee prior to CAS issuance, with the balance payable in instalments thereafter.
While payment of a minimum of 75% of the net tuition fee is the standard requirement, a higher than minimum payment may often be perceived as a very strong indicator of a student’s commitment to their study in the UK and consequently this helps them to demonstrate their credibility as a genuine student – a critical factor in both the University application process and the UK visa application process.
While the University does not presently require an applicant to pay a deposit higher than the minimum 75%, we nevertheless strongly recommend that applicants do pay a higher than minimum 75% deposit wherever possible, especially where our official and highly trusted representatives recommend this course of action as a result of their significant knowledge and experience of the market and sector.
For out-of-the-UK applicants, the CAS deadline(s) for each intake are shown above.
CAS Deadlines
For applicants in the UK the deadline is 1 week after enrolment commences.
Please note visa processing times may vary from country to country, especially during peak times.
log into your application
International students must show that they have held the required amount of funds (tuition fee and living costs) in their bank for a period of 28 consecutive days.
Bank statement must be within 1 month of visa application.
Bank statement has to be on official letterhead or bear company stamp.
If you are relying on money held by your parent(s) / legal guardian(s) you will need to provide us with the following information: bank statement, birth certificate confirming relationship and an affidavit or letter confirming that they have given their consent to you using their funds to study in the UK.
Any document not in English - A certified translation must be provided.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/international/how-to-apply/cas-information-london-campus:
This page contains a list of frequently asked questions and answers which outlines the important information that you need to know regarding your Confirmation of Acceptance of Studies (CAS).
Your CAS will be issued when you have met all of the conditions of your offer and meet all UK Visa & Immigration requirements.
Any document not in English - a certified translation must be provided.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/research-degrees/study-options:
UWS offers a wide range of applied research opportunities across all of its active subject areas.
Although many of the subject areas are listed individually, the reality is that much of our research takes place and will be delivered in multi-disciplinary teams and projects across the institution.
Each year, UWS offers funded or self-funded PhD project opportunities across a broad range of research areas.
You can find current project-specific PhD opportunities on our Findaphd.com listing.
You can also propose your own PhD topic.
Browse our research degree study options to see how these align with your interests and find out how to contact a member of academic staff to discuss your proposal.
Below you will find a list of all the main areas of active research in which doctoral research is possible at UWS.
Finally, details of all of the different types of research degrees (MRes, MPhil, PhD, DBA, DProf) that we offer can also be found below.
Our Chemistry research lead to PhDs exploring the intersection of synthesis, materials science, physical and biological chemistry to develop novel functional molecules with real-world applications.
Research opportunities in Computer Science leading to MPhil or PhD degrees in AI, Blockchain Technology, Data Science & more.
Research opportunities in Economics leading to MRes, MPhil or PhD and develop expertise in areas like sustainable growth & healthcare economics.
Research opportunities in Education leading to a MPhil, PhD, DProf qualification in areas as diverse as curriculum development, policy, community education, teaching professionalism and language educa...
Our Engineering research leads to PhDs with real-world applications in energy, built environment, aerospace, design and manufacturing, project and quality management and sustainability.
Research opportunities in Enterprise lead to MPhil or PhD degrees in entrepreneurial ecosystems, SMEs and entrepreneurial activities, incubators and accelerators, and enterprise education.
Research opportunities in Environmental Science leading to MPhil or PhD degrees in animal welfare, the impact of invasive species on biodiversity, ecotoxicology, ecology, and entomology.
Research opportunities in Events and Tourism leading to MPhil or PhD degrees in adventure tourism; tourism sociology; festivals, events and communities; tourism policy; tourism and identity.
Our Forensic Science research lead to PhDs in study of forensic toxicology, drug development, bio- and nanomaterials and spectroscopic detection and other applied areas.
Research opportunities in Law leading to MPhil or PhD degrees in access to justice, food sovereignty, immigration / asylum law, the impact of international human rights, and transgender rights.
Research opportunities in Leadership Studies leading to MPhil or PhD degrees in leading change; flexible working and leadership; crisis leadership; leadership and gender; and social inequalities and l...
Our practice-led research in Music leads to MRes, MPhil or PhD degrees in areas such as music and society, methodologies, gender equality, songwriting and entrepreneurship.
Our Nuclear Physics research lead to PhDs in study of the structure and properties of exotic atomic nuclei using gamma-ray and charged-particle spectroscopy and other applied areas.
We undertake a wide range of health, nursing and midwifery research that aligns with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDG3).
Our vision is to be world leading and internationally reco...
Our research into People, Work and Organisations leads to MRes, MPhil and PhD degrees in talent management, equality and diversity, organisational development, and employee value propositions.
Research opportunities leading to MRes, MPhil or PhD in performance ethnographies and decentred practice, applied performance philosophy, socially engaged practice, and contemporary performance.
Our Professional Doctorate (DProf) is delivered through blended learning and allows you to pursue a practical research intrerest that can advance your profession.
Our Project Management and Quality Management research leads to PhDs focussed on driving efficiency, effectiveness, and stakeholder satisfaction in the real world.
Our Psychology research opportunities lead to PhDs in applied psychology, addiction and health psychology, cyberpsychology, devleopmental and educational psychology.
Our Social Sciences research leads to PhD investigations focused on reducing inequalities, promoting social justice, and informing local, national, and international policies and practice.
Research opportunities in Socia Work lead to PhD degrees in a wide range of areas including: honour based abuse; criminal justice policy and practice; transitional justice, peace development, refugees...
Our research into Sport and Sporting Events leads to MRes, MPhil or PhD degrees in areas such as: sport and diplomacy; sport governance; sport events and labour rights; disability sport events and par...
Our Theoretical Physics and Mathematics research lead to PhDs in study of quantum mechanics, optical theory, non-equilibrium statistical mechanics, mathematical modelling, statistics, and numerical an...
UWS offers the following postgraduate research degrees:
Entry onto a postgraduate research degree normally requires you to have obtained a good Honours degree (First or Upper Second Class) or a postgraduate qualification in a relevant area of study.
More information about academic entry requirements is listed on the individual course pages.
Postgraduate research degrees vary in terms of structure, duration, purpose and academic rigour.
For information on current postgraduate research tuition fees, visit our Research Degrees Tuition Fees section.
The Master of Research (MRes) degree is an advanced postgraduate research degree which is especially focused on preparing students for doctoral research.
The MRes usually takes 12 months of full-time study.
The main difference between a taught MSc and an MRes is that the course structure is more flexible than a taught Masters degree and requires candidates to complete a research dissertation (typically 15-20,000 words) informed by independent research, or a practice-led research project.
The MRes provides structured research study and is a great place to begin your research career.
If you’re thinking about studying at PhD level the MRes will give you a taste of what it’s like to complete a doctorate.
UWS normally requires MRes candidates to defend their dissertation thesis (viva voce examination) for successful completion of an MRes degree.
For more information please email:
pgr@uws.ac.uk
The Master of Philosophy (MPhil) degree is a more advanced postgraduate research degree.
In most cases, it is a thesis-only research degree – meaning that your studies will be exclusively focused on researching and writing your thesis – and is regarded as a senior or second Masters degree.
In most cases the MPhil usually requires 18-24 months of full-time, or 24-36 months of part-time study and requires the submission and oral defence (viva voce examination) of a thesis comprising original research undertaken by the candidate.
The MPhil degree is different from the MRes degree in the scale and scope of the research undertaken and an extended time period; the MPhil thesis is typically 20-40,000 words, or the equivalent for practice-led research projects.
In addition, MPhil research students may be required to undertake a few taught/supporting modules where this is considered necessary for the attainment of competence in research methods and/or background knowledge.
In an MPhil, evidence is required of the ability to test ideas, understand appropriate techniques, make use of published work and source material and show familiarity with different theories and empirical studies.
As such, the MPhil may be awarded to graduate students who satisfactorily complete a programme of supervised research training and have investigated and evaluated or critically studied an appropriate topic over the equivalent of not less than eighteen months of full-time study and who have presented a satisfactory thesis.
Typically, the duration of MPhil/PhD is 36 months to maximum 48 months (full-time) and 72 months to 84 months (part-time).
Embarking on this from of registration, candidates will prepare for an MPhil/PhD transfer event which normally takes place about 12-18 months (24-36 months, part-time) into their programme of research.
If, at the end of this transfer event, assessors are satisfied with respect to the quality, originality and potential contribution to the body of knowledge of the candidates work to date, and plan of future research, then they will recommend that the candidate transfer to PhD registration and complete their studies.
If, on the other hand, the assessors are not content with the candidate's progress to-date, the quality, originality or potential contribution to knowledge of the candidates work, then they may recommend that the candidate transfer to MPhil registration and complete the work required for the award of this degree.
Alternatively, candidates can choose to be considered for registering for MPhil degree for personal reasons.
Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) degree is the highest rated research degree awarded by UWS.
As the highest academic level of study, a PhD is rigorous and demanding.
Most students are passionate about their area of interest and pursue a PhD as a result of their scientific and academic curiosity.
Candidates awarded a PhD are entitled to use the academic title Doctor before their name.
PhD candidates typically emerge from MRes or MPhil studies, although some candidates apply directly having gained appropriate research experience.
In most cases the PhD usually requires at least 33 months of full-time study, and requires the submission and oral defence (viva voce examination) of a thesis (typically 60-100,000 words, depending on your field of study) comprising original research undertaken by the candidate.
PhDs are normally awarded to students who have completed a programme of supervised research training and critically evaluated an appropriate topic over not less than the equivalent of 33 months of full-time study that results in a significant contribution to knowledge.
A PhD is generally a pre-requisite for a successful career in academia, and can help you to secure senior research and management roles in government agencies and companies.
Submissions for this award will consist of coherent body of work (normally four to six research publications) along with an extended narrative which is of the same quality, rigour and volume as required of a standard PhD and which constitutes an original contribution to knowledge.
The Doctor of Business Administration (DBA) will appeal to those wishing to gain the highest level of professional qualification available in business and management, by undertaking world-class doctoral study.
It will be of interest to leader and managers working in the private sector, health, local authorities and higher education, enhancing your professional and executive practice through the application of rigorous research to real and complex issues in business and management.
UWS DBA graduates are equipped to hold several high-level positions including executive and leadership positions in business and commerce and the public sector.
A doctorate provides great personal satisfaction by enabling you to take your learning to the highest recognised level.
The Doctor of Business Administration (DBA) programme is unavailable for 2023/24 entry.
UWS is delighted to present its innovative, blended learning, part-time Professional Doctorate (DProf).
This course combines the art and science of professional practice and the concept of reflective practice with relevant academic theory helping you to apply this to the investigation/exploration of problems.
Many professionals come to the programme as they are preparing to move into senior leadership roles in the profession and find the programme an extremely useful way to enliven change design with cutting edge theory, deepen their understanding of transformative change and support change with reflective practice.
Because the programme is offered on a blended part-time basis and has a focus on professional practice there is no interruption to your earning power.
The DProf is interdisciplinary, and recognises that real world professional practice problems are dynamic and complex.
The course will facilitate an investigation into the contemporary issues facing your profession and to make a contribution to professional knowledge that is applied and practical in nature.
The DProf allows you to develop transferable skills in advanced applied research as well as in-depth expertise specifically related to your profession through a two year taught phase before moving on to research phase with supervision in which you will complete a piece of applied research and defend the resulting thesis.
Through the programme we aim to help you develop confidence, increase your awareness as a reflective practitioner, and improve your career prospects and job satisfaction which will also be of benefit to your workplace in terms of organisational and succession planning.
Candidates usually hold a Masters level degree or equivalent research experience, have professional experience and are in a position to facilitate applied research within their organisation.
Normally candidates are interviewed about their professional experience and aspirations, their interests in the programme and the contribution they feel they can make to the UWS research community as well as their expectations of the programme.
We offer flexible arrangements for interviews and can use a variety of digital platforms as well as face-to-face interviews on UWS Paisley Campus.
Apply NOw

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/research-degrees/research-degrees-tuition-fees:
Tuition fees are set annually and may incur a small increase each year.
Please check below for notes on research degree tuition fees per subject area.
^ No MPhil or PhD supervision available at UWS Dumfries Campus for 'International' students
* DProf not offered at UWS London Campus
† MPhil not offered at UWS Paisley Campus
^ No MPhil or PhD supervision available at UWS Ayr or Dumfries campuses for 'International' students
† MPhil supervision not offered at UWS London Campus for 'International' students
Download the latest tuition fees for academic session 2023/24 which includes tuition fees for MRes, MPhil, PhD, research degrees and the professional doctorates DBA and DProf.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/research-degrees/why-research-at-uws:
Join us online on Wednesday 23 April, 5.30-6.30pm to find out more about postgraduate research at UWS.
This information session will include:
Postgraduate Research students work at the forefront of their academic subject and contribute to the advancement of knowledge.
To be a successful researcher, you must be passionate about your subject area, with enthusiasm for research and analysis, and the motivation to manage a personal learning programme.
You will have already demonstrated research aptitude in undergraduate or masters-level studies.
UWS was founded in 2007 but can trace its origins back to 1897.
Born out of the industrial revolution, for 120 years we have been helping people to develop their knowledge and skills to contribute to society.
We’re one of the best performing modern universities in Scotland and are ranked within the top 200 modern universities globally.
Ranked in the top 200 of the world’s universities that are 50 years old, or younger (source: Times Higher Education Young University Rankings 2024).
With over 80 postgraduate courses on offer across a range of industries and job roles you’re sure to find the right course for the career you want.
Our students are highly satisfied with the quality of teaching and their overall experience as a student at UWS.
Courses across all six academic schools receive the highest student satisfaction rates in survey after survey.
That’s why nine in ten of our students would recommend us to a friend.
We are an international university.
We are successful in attracting students from across the globe who come to UWS to access world-leading education which is internationally recognised and respected.
Our international students help to make us a culturally diverse and exciting place to study.
Every year our expert academics work with around 600 students, including more than 250 students from 25 countries, to support them through high-quality, highly-regarded research degrees: MRes, MPhil, PhD, DBA, DProf.
We are proud of the quality of our research at UWS.
In the most recent round of research assessment in the UK - Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2021, 90 percent of research at University of the West of Scotland was classed as world-leading, internationally excellent, or recognised internationally.
As a doctoral student, you will automatically become a member of the Doctoral College which is concerned with creating and maintaining a collegiate, interdisciplinary research environment .
The the main aim being to generate societally impactful research and produce highly employable doctoral graduates of the future.
The Doctoral College helps foster a collaborative peer-supported doctoral research culture across the University and our partner institutions worldwide; it does so through year-round events and initiatives in addition to professional development such as:

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/research-degrees/studentships:
UWS has a strong and growing research community.
We are constantly on the lookout for talented prospective PhD students with outstanding academic ability and commitment to join our vibrant and growing programme of internationally excellent research.
There are opportunities for fully-funded students across all subject areas and all Academic Schools.
Every year though, UWS offers a variety of Research Studentships for both UK and international students.
To keep up to date with the latest studentships, visit this page regularly, follow our social media channels and visit the UWS page on FindAPhD .
Successful recipients of UWS studentships will receive a generous financial award from UWS, as well as benefit from our intellectually stimulating and inclusive research environment and from enhanced career development support and professional skills training.
UWS is delighted to announce an exciting, innovative and fully-funded* opportunity for suitably qualified applicants to work on real-world MRes project in conjunction with Scottish Athletics' Community Impact Team.
*Scholarship: One scholarship covering full tuition fees is available for Scottish, and eligible English, Welsh, Northern Irish or Irish applicants.
Scholarship deadline: Monday 16 June at 5.00pm (GMT)
Contact us for more information on funding your studies:

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/international/country-information/india:
At the University of the West of Scotland, we have welcomed over 1,000 Indian students onto our campuses over the past 10 years across all academic areas including Business & Finance, Computing, Engineering and Management, including MBA and DBA.
We are working increasingly across India, with a growing number of research partnerships, deepening engagement with industry and government, and support by our in-country member of staff.
There is a well-established community of Indian students at UWS who play an active role in many of the University’s social societies and sports clubs.
Additionally, the UWS Paisley Campus is just 10 minutes by train from Glasgow, which is home to a large South Asian community.
This means that as one of our Indian students you can meet new people and make new friends from Scotland and other parts of the world.
Our Admissions team are familiar with the Indian education system and qualifications.
If you have any questions about the admissions process or studying at UWS, please contact the International Centre by email at international@uws.ac.uk
We work with many educational representatives across India and around the world.
You can find details of the companies we work with below - please use these details to find information on your local branch:
Abroad Education Consultants AEC - www.aecoverseas.com
Azent Education DMCC - www.azent.com
BCES Admissions Abroad Pvt Ltd – www.bces.in
BitTRACK Consultants Pvt Ltd – www.bittrack.com
Blue Ribbon Overseas Educational Consultants Pvt Ltd - www.blueribbonoverseas.com
Edroots International - www.edroots.com
Eduquest Admissions - www.eduquest.co.in
Gateway Abroad - www.gatewayabroad.com
Global Study Partners - https://www.globalstudypartners.com/
ISDC Learning - www.isdcglobal.org
KC Overseas Education Pvt Ltd - www.studies-overseas.com
Leap GeeBee Edtech Private Limited - www.geebeeworld.com
Leverage Edu – https://www.leverageedu.com/
Oberoi's Education Link Pvt Limited - www.educationlinkhouse.com
Santa Monica Study Abroad Pvt Limited – https://santamonicaedu.in
Silver Fern - www.thesfedu.com
SI UK - www.studyin-uk.com
Suraj Consulting - 1/2, 28 Windsor Crescent, Clydebank, G81 3AE
Phone: +44 (0) 7774147369
Western Overseas Study Abroad Pvt Limited - www.western-overseas.com
Yarra US - www.yarra.us
As well as being able to chat to one of our official representatives in India throughout the year, our international team regularly travels overseas to meet students and to attend exhibitions and events.
If you are interested in meeting one of our representatives to learn more about studying at University of the West of Scotland, please email international@uws.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/international/country-information/bangladesh:
University of the West of Scotland has a long established relationship with Bangladesh and we have been welcoming Bangladeshi students here since 2000.
There are currently more than 200 students from Bangladesh studying at UWS’s Scottish and London campuses and we are delighted that you are considering joining them.
There is a well-established community of Bangladeshi students at UWS who play an active role in many of the University’s social societies and sports clubs.
Additionally, the UWS Paisley Campus is just 10 minutes by train from Glasgow, which is home to one of the largest South Asian communities in the UK.
This means that as one of our Bangladeshi students, you have the opportunity to meet people from your home country as well as making new friends from Scotland and other parts of the world.
London is home to the largest Bangladeshi community in the UK.
Studying at our London Campus means that you know you will be supported by the Bangladeshi community here whilst living in the heart of one of the world's most vibrant cities.
Our Admissions team are familiar with the Bangladeshi education system and qualifications.
As of 30 June 2025, UWS will require an approved English language test as evidence of English proficiency from applicants from Bangladesh to all UK campuses.
We work with many educational representatives across Bangladesh and around the world.
Education Excellence
Web: https://educationexcellence.com.bd/
YES Education
Web: www.yesehec.com
Email: info@yesehec.com
Phone: +88 01717 564814, +88 01648 931156
As well as being able to chat to one of our official representatives throughout the year, our international team regularly travels overseas to meet students and to attend exhibitions and events.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/international/country-information/nigeria:
UWS has a thriving community of Nigerian students and each year we welcome over 100 Nigerian students to our Scottish and London campuses.
With an extensive catalogue of undergraduate, postgraduate and research programmes designed to meet the demands of research and industry, the University continues to offer a wide range of opportunities to Nigerian applicants.
We recently launched our Centre for African Research on Enterprise and Economic Development (CAREED), with one of our academics, Professor John Struthers, as the Director.
CAREED has a unique emphasis on enterprise and economic development, especially given Africa’s strong recent and on-going development.
There is a well-established community of Nigerian students at UWS who play an active role in many of the University’s social societies and sports clubs.
Our Admissions team are familiar with the Nigerian education system and qualifications.
We have the following approved representatives in Nigeria:
We work with many educational representatives across Nigeria and around the world.
Gowin Consulting International - www.gowin.com.ng
MCIS - Masaden Continental Investment Services Limited - info@mcisonline.com
As well as being able to chat to one of our official representatives in Nigeria throughout the year, our international team regularly travels overseas to meet students and to attend exhibitions and events.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/international/country-information/pakistan:
University of the West of Scotland has well-established links with Pakistan.
In 2009, the University was delighted to award an honorary doctorate to Dr Shamshad Akhtar, who holds a PhD in Economics from the University and was the former Governor of the Central Bank of Pakistan and is now Under-Secretary-General of the United Nations.
The University is currently home to over 200 Pakistani students and we are delighted that you are considering joining them.
There is an established community of Pakistani students at UWS who play an active role in many of the University’s social societies and sports clubs.
This means that as one of our Pakistani students you can meet new people and make new friends from Scotland and other parts of the world.
Our Admissions team are familiar with the Pakistani education system and qualifications.
Please visit or contact our regional office in Pakistan:
Mr.
Muhammad Amir - Country Director - Pakistan.
Email : m.amir@uws.ac.uk
We work with the following educational representatives for Pakistan.
CNL Enterprises Ltd
Web : www.cnluk.net
As well as being able to chat to one of our official representatives in Pakistan throughout the year, our international team regularly travels overseas to meet students and to attend exhibitions and events.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/international/country-information/ghana:
The University of the West of Scotland has established links with Ghana and we currently have over 50 students studying with us at our Scottish and London campuses in the areas of Business, Computing and Science.
With an extensive catalogue of undergraduate, postgraduate and research programmes designed to meet the demands of research and industry, the University continues to offer a wide range of opportunities to Ghanaian applicants.
There is an established community of Ghanaian students at UWS who play an active role in many of the University’s social societies and sports clubs.
Our Admissions team are familiar with the Ghanaian education system and qualifications.
We work with four educational representatives in Ghana.
Overseas Students House:
Address: PO Box AT, 2456 Achimota, Accra
Phone - +233 242285037
Staffinders Ghana Limited - https://staffindersgh.com
Grace Education - www.grace-education.org
As well as being able to chat to one of our official representatives in Ghana throughout the year, our international team regularly travels overseas to meet students and to attend exhibitions and events.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/international/country-information/saudi-arabia:
University of the West of Scotland has established links with Saudi Arabia and we currently have over 20 students from Saudi Arabia studying a range of courses, including Business, Computing, Engineering and Science.
With an extensive catalogue of undergraduate, postgraduate and research programmes designed to meet the demands of research and industry, the University continues to offer a wide range of opportunities to Saudi applicants.
There is an established community of Saudi students at UWS who play an active role in many of the University’s social societies and sports clubs.
Our Paisley Campus is just 10 minutes from Glasgow, which is one of Europe’s most diverse cities and includes a large Muslim population.
The city is home to twelve mosques and a wide range of Halal butchers and shops.
Furthermore, UWS has its own Muslim Society which represents and caters for Muslim students on campus.
Our Admissions team are familiar with the Saudi Arabian education system and qualifications.
There are over 40 UWS alumni working in Saudi Arabia for companies such as:
For more information please contact the UWS International Centre - international@uws.ac.uk
ISM LLC - https://ism-edu.org
Study West - https://studywest.org/
As well as being able to chat to one of our official representatives in Saudi Arabia throughout the year, our international team regularly travels overseas to meet students and to attend exhibitions and events.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/international/country-information/usa:
We are delighted to welcome students from the USA to study with us.
The University is growing in popularity amongst students from the USA, who are recognising the quality of our degree programmes.
With an extensive catalogue of undergraduate, postgraduate and research programmes designed to meet the demands of research and industry, the University continues to offer a wide range of opportunities to North American applicants.
American students (US citizens and eligible non-US-citizens, and their parents) who study at or are planning to study at UWS may now apply for direct loans from the US Government - Federal Student Aid (FSA).
The loans, available to Undergraduate and Postgraduate students, assist in covering tuition, accommodation and living costs while studying for a degree.
American students applying for the funding are approved to study at Ayr, Dumfries, Lanarkshire, London and Paisley campuses on a wide range of courses.
Only a small number of courses are ineligible for FSA funding, including: Nursing programmes; any course undertaken on a part-time or distance learning basis; or any course where part of it is undertaken in a partner institution.
Visit our dedicated Federal Student Aid section for more information on Federal loan types as well as how to apply and all associated information on processes.
Federal Student Aid for Eligible US (and non-US) Students
For more information, contact the UWS FSA Funding team on fsa-funding@uws.ac.uk .
The University offers full tuition fee scholarship opportunities for applicants from the United States of America applying to study on any taught postgraduate (master's) degree course at one of our Scottish campuses.
These scholarships are competitive in nature and, if awarded, cannot be used in combination with any other UWS scholarship.
The Frances Wright Scholarship provides a full fees scholarship to deserving applicants who identify as women.
Frances Wright Scholarship Flyer (pdf)
The Frederick and Anna Murray Douglass Scholarship provides a full fees scholarship to applicants who belong to an underrepresented racial or ethnic minority group.
Frederick and Anna Murray Douglass Scholarship Flyer (pdf)
More About These Full Tuition Fee Scholarships
There is an established community of American students at UWS who play an active role in many of the University’s social societies and sports clubs.
There are currently over 700 UWS alumni working in the United States for companies such as:
As well as being able to chat to one of our official representatives in North America throughout the year, our international team regularly travels overseas to meet students and to attend exhibitions and events.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/international/country-information/uae:
University of the West of Scotland has established links with the UAE and we are delighted to be welcoming a growing number of Emirati students to study with us.
With an extensive catalogue of undergraduate, postgraduate and research programmes designed to meet the demands of research and industry, the University continues to offer a wide range of opportunities to Emirati applicants.
There is an established community of Emirati students at UWS who play an active role in many of the University’s social societies and sports clubs.
Our Admissions team are familiar with the UAE education system and qualifications.
We have the following approved representatives for UAE:
As well as being able to chat to one of our official representatives in UAE throughout the year, our international team regularly travels overseas to meet students and to attend exhibitions and events.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/international/country-information/qatar:
University of the West of Scotland has established links in Qatar and we are delighted to be welcoming a growing number of students from Qatar to study with us.
With an extensive catalogue of undergraduate, postgraduate and research programmes designed to meet the demands of research and industry, the University continues to offer a wide range of opportunities to Qatari applicants.
There is an established community of Qatari students at UWS who play an active role in many of the University’s social societies and sports clubs.
Our Admissions team are familiar with the Qatar education system and qualifications.
We have the following approved representatives who can assist with enquiries from students in Qatar:
As well as being able to chat to one of our official representatives in Qatar throughout the year, our international team regularly travels overseas to meet students and to attend exhibitions and events.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/international/country-information/canada:
We are delighted to welcome students from Canada to study with us.
The University is growing in popularity amongst students from Canada, who are recognising the quality of our degree programmes.
With an extensive catalogue of undergraduate, postgraduate and research programmes designed to meet the demands of research and industry, the University continues to offer a wide range of opportunities to Canadian applicants.
University of the West of Scotland is a recognised institution for the purpose of certifying Canadian student loan applications.
The Canada Student Loans Program allows students to borrow money from the Government of Canada to pursue higher education.
For details on eligibility and how to apply for a loan, please visit the Canada Student Loans website .
Our institutional code is PUJZ.
There is an established community of Canadian students at UWS who play an active role in many of the University’s social societies and sports clubs.
There are currently over 300 UWS alumni working in Canada for companies such as:
We work with one international educational representative for Canada.
Canteach Education Consultants - www.canteach.net
As well as being able to chat to one of our official representatives in Canada throughout the year, our international team regularly travels overseas to meet students and to attend exhibitions and events.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/international/country-information/kenya:
We are delighted to welcome a growing number of students from Kenya to study with us in our Scottish and London Campuses.
Currently our Kenyan students study across a number of Business programmes, including MBA.
With an extensive catalogue of undergraduate, postgraduate and research programmes designed to meet the demands of research and industry, the University continues to offer a wide range of opportunities to Kenyan applicants.
There is an established community of Kenyan students at UWS who play an active role in many of the University’s social societies and sports clubs.
Our Admissions team are familiar with the Kenyan education system and qualifications.
We work with many educational representatives across Kenya, and many have offices across the country.
Our international team regularly travels overseas to meet students and to attend exhibitions and events.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/international/country-information/nepal:
We have almost 100 Nepali students studying with us at our Scottish and London campuses, across a wide range of subjects, including MBA.
With an extensive catalogue of undergraduate, postgraduate and research programmes designed to meet the demands of research and industry, the University continues to offer a wide range of opportunities to Nepali applicants.
There is an established community of Nepali students at UWS who play an active role in many of the University’s social societies and sports clubs.
Our Admissions team are familiar with the Nepali education system and qualifications.
We work with several educational representatives for Nepal.
Bizz Educational Consultancy Limited - www.bizzeducation.co.uk / www.bizzeducation.com
Bradford Education Consultancy Pvt Ltd - www.bradford.edu.np
Global Study Partners - www.globalstudypartners.com
Mindful Education Consultancy Services Private Limited – https:/mindfuleducations.com
As well as being able to chat to our official representative in Nepal throughout the year, our international team regularly travels overseas to meet students and to attend exhibitions and events.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/international/country-information/vietnam:
University of the West of Scotland has well established links with Vietnam and we currently have over 80 students from Vietnam studying a range of courses at UWS.
With an extensive catalogue of undergraduate, postgraduate and research programmes designed to meet the demands of research and industry, the University continues to offer a wide range of opportunities to Vietnamese applicants.
We also have a partnership with Kent International College in Ho Chi Minh City in which KIC students from certain programmes may articulate onto designated UWS programmes.
Please contact international@uws.ac.uk for more information.
There is an established community of Vietnamese students at UWS who play an active role in many of the University’s social societies and sports clubs.
Our Admissions team are familiar with the Vietnamese education system and qualifications.
If you have any questions about your application to study at UWS, please contact us at international@uws.ac.uk
Undergraduate Entry Requirements for Year One
Undergraduate Entry Requirements for Year Two
Postgraduate Entry Requirements
Applicants must have completed:
View our English Language Requirements
View our English Language Courses
We have the following approved official representative in Vietnam:
UKEAS www.isc-ukeas.com/
As well as being able to chat to one of our official representatives in Vietnam throughout the year, our international team regularly travels overseas to meet students and to attend exhibitions and events.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/international/country-information/sri-lanka:
University of the West of Scotland has a long established relationship with Sri Lanka and we have been welcoming Sri Lankan students here since 2000.
There are currently students from Sri Lanka studying at UWS’s Scottish and London campuses and we are delighted that you are considering joining them.
There is a well-established community of Sri Lankan students at UWS who play an active role in many of the University’s social societies and sports clubs.
This means that as one of our Sri Lankan students, you have the opportunity to meet people from your home country as well as making new friends from Scotland and other parts of the world.
Our Admissions team are familiar with the Sri Lankan education system and qualifications.
We work with many educational representatives across Sri Lanka and around the world.
You can find details of the companies we work with below:
Campus Direct UK (Pvt) - www.cduk.lk / www.campusdirect.io/gb
Gentium Student Consultants Pvt Ltd - 1100, 2 Battaramulla - Pannipitiya Rd, Battaramulla 10120, Sri Lanka.
Tel: +94 76 148 3333
Glox Edu Consultancy Pvt Ltd - www.gloxedu.lk

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/international/country-information/thailand:
University of the West of Scotland has a long established relationship with Thailand and we have been welcoming Thai students here since 2000.
There are currently students from Thailand studying at UWS’s Scottish and London campuses and we are delighted that you are considering joining them.
There is a well-established community of Thai students at UWS who play an active role in many of the University’s social societies and sports clubs.
This means that as one of our Thai students, you have the opportunity to meet people from your home country as well as making new friends from Scotland and other parts of the world.
Our Admissions team are familiar with the Thai education system and qualifications.
We work with many educational representatives across Thailand and around the world.
McDucation - www.mcducation.org

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/admissions-application/undergraduate-entry-requirements:
While each course has its own specific entry requirements listed on all course pages , there are also standard minimum academic requirements for admission onto any undergraduate degree course.
Applicants are expected to hold the following qualifications, or equivalent, as a minimum.
Please note, holding these qualifications does not always guarantee entry on your chosen course as entry is competitive in nature.
On our course pages, you will find details of our entry criteria listed as Standard Entry Requirements and Minimum Entry Requirements for Scottish applicants who are applying for Year 1 entry.
In addition, you may also be eligible for an adjusted offer of entry, if you have taken part in the UWS Foundation Academy, the Next Steps to University Module, attend a FOCUS West School, take part in the Top Up Programme or complete Routes for All Programme or LEAPs.
Make sure you outline this on your application, and this will be taken into consideration by our Admissions team.
These programmes will be taken into consideration for standard, minimum and alternative minimum requirements.
Please find details of these below.
Any applicant who qualifies for minimum entry criteria and is applying for a course which has an alternative minimum entry requirement, would be considered for this if they do not meet (or are not predicted to meet) the tariff point requirement including key subjects, where applicable.
If they have undertaken any of the following Programmes, then this will be taken into account as part of our UWS Alternative Minimum Entry Requirements.
UWS Foundation Academy
The UWS Foundation Academy is a university-level module which is delivered in a blended approach, both in-school and on-campus.
Successful completion of the Foundation Academy is equivalent to 20 credits at SCQF Level 7, and the University considers the programme to be equivalent to one Higher at B.
Please note, Foundation Academy may only be considered towards your offer if you are already undertaking this module at a participating school.
For more information, please see our Foundation Academy web page.
UWS Next Steps to University Module
Our Next Steps to University module is a 20 credit programme which is delivered mostly online, with some campus-based sessions included.
The module focuses on important skills to help you succeed in University, such as study skills, presentation skills and exam preparation.
If your qualifications are under the requirement for entry into one of our programmes, you may be offered UWS Summer School as a condition of your offer of admission.
Foundation Apprenticeships
Foundation Apprenticeships are a work-based learning opportunity for senior-phase secondary school pupils.
Lasting one or two years, pupils begin their Foundation Apprenticeship in S5 or S6.
Young people spend time out of school at college or with a local employer, and complete the Foundation Apprenticeship alongside their other subjects like National 5s and Highers.
Completion leads to a qualification at the same level of learning as a Higher and can lead to progression on to a job, such as a Modern or Graduate Apprenticeship.
Routes for All
Part of the FOCUS West initiative, Routes for All is a programme that concentrates on study skills and preparation for exams, academic courses and careers.
Please note, Routes for All may only be considered towards admission if you are already undertaking this programme through a participating school.
Top-Up
Part of the FOCUS West initiative, this programme is designed for senior phase pupils who would like to progress to university after school.
Successful completion of Top-Up is considered for most courses as equivalent to a Higher Grade C.
Please note, Top Up may only be considered towards admission if you are already undertaking this programme through a participating school.
LEAPS
LEAPS is a widening participation programme delivered in South East Scotland, which aims to encourage and advise students who are traditionally under-represented in higher education.
Successful completion of LEAPS is considered for most courses as equivalent to a Higher Grade C.
Please note, LEAPS may only be considered towards admission if you are already undertaking this programme through a participating school.
We are committed to widening access to education and are active participants in the Scottish Wider Access Programme (SWAP).
SWAP is designed for adult learners who have few or no academic qualifications but who have the ability to study to degree level.
By undertaking a one-year, full-time SWAP course candidates gain the qualifications for entry onto undergraduate programmes at UWS.
Many of our undergraduate courses include SWAP criteria as part of their entry requirements.
To find out how SWAP could help you to become a UWS student please contact ask@uws.ac.uk or phone our course enquiries team at 0800 027 1000 or +44 (0)141 849 4101 .
We are happy to consider other alternative combinations of qualifications and experience, including:
In addition to the qualifications listed above, UWS will consider a range of factors when assessing your application.
For some courses advanced entry (entry into Year 2 or 3) is possible.
Candidates with a combination of Highers and Advanced Highers / AS level and A levels (or equivalent qualifications) are encouraged to consider advanced entry into year 2.
Candidates who have achieved a Higher National Certificate (HNC) or a Higher National Diploma (HND) (from bodies such as SQA and BTEC etc.) are encouraged to consider advanced entry into year 2 or 3 respectively.
Please note, some course may require additional qualifications such as SQA Highers / Intermediate 2 / Standard Grade (Credit); check each course entry for full entry requirements.
The academic requirements for individual courses accepting advanced entry will be listed on the course page.
Find out more about English language requirements.
We are happy to consider other alternative combinations of qualifications and experience, including:
Find out more about Widening Participation at UWS and the support that we offer:
UWS is committed to widening access and providing opportunities for all and this information and set of FAQs outlines our support for care-experienced students, student carers or estranged students.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/i-found-my-place/emily-digital-marketing-student:
Emily is a postgraduate student on our MSc Digital Marketing programme at Paisley campus.
Emily found her place at UWS – find yours!

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/uws-sport/team-uws:
Home to a wide range of opportunities within sport and physical activity.
From competitive sport to recreational activities, training to fixtures, individual to team competition – we've got it covered.
Team UWS is run by students for students and is professionally supported by University staff.
Interested in joining a team or taking part in sport at UWS?
UWS Sport Privacy Notice (pdf)
Clubs within Team UWS compete in British Universities and Colleges Sport (BUCS) and Scottish Student Sport (SSS) leagues, where you can compete against other colleges and universities from around the country.
So, whether you currently play a sport and want to continue your development, or you would like to take on a brand new challenge, Team UWS competitive sport is for you.
In addition to our team sport, the BUCS and SSS competition schedule offers plenty of opportunities for individual sport.
Having seen success in the pool, track and field (to name but a few!) over recent years we are always working to support and develop individual sport at Team UWS.
A to Z of SPORTS
SPorts Scholarship
Competitive sport is not the only way to get active whilst at UWS with a number of recreational sport offers available within Team UWS.
Working in partnership with UWS sport facilities there is an extensive range of FREE fitness classes for you to participate in.
Our recreational sports schedule for the year is just as busy as our competitive one.
Pop-up sports, come and try weeks, special events – the list goes on.
This year we introduced some recreational indoor cricket sessions which have been a major success.
Starting September 2025, weekly sessions will take place every Tuesday 7-9pm at Renfrew Leisure Centre.
So, if recreational sport is more your thing, then we still have plenty to keep you moving.
Sign up for your favourite sport or try something new with our clubs and recreational sessions!
Each year Team UWS hosts its annual Sports Ball.
Taking place at the end of the competitive BUCS season, this event is a great way of celebrating the year’s successes and achievements and always proves to be one of the highlights of the year.
In addition to the annual sports ball, Team UWS hosts a variety of different events throughout the academic year including campaigns and the recent introduction of our recreational five-aside tournaments which bring together people from across the campuses for some friendly competition.
Read more about some of our events using the button below!
Annual Sports Ball
View our A to Z of sports teams and discover more about the different teams and opportunities available.
A to Z sports
Explore our Gym Facilities

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/uws-sport/gym-facilities-at-uws:
Our gyms and exercise classes are open to everyone - you don't need to be a UWS student or staff member to join.
Our inclusive environment welcomes everyone.
All UWS students and staff benefit from free membership.
Other facility users can access the gym using a pay-as-you-go model, or if you intend on using the gym on a regular basis, we have a wide range of flexible memberships available.
UWS Sport operates gym facilities across four of our campuses, with partner offers at our London Campus.
Our state-of-the-art gyms offer a wide range of equipment and caters for all fitness abilities, supporting you to keep active.
Register for a gym membership
Find out more about the different campus gyms, their facilities and and opportunities such as personal training and classes.
Ayr Campus Gym
Dumfries Campus Gym
Lanarkshire Campus Gym
London Campus Gym
Gym Memberships
For general enquires, information on memberships or gym tours please contact the team:
Email: sportenquiry@uws.ac.uk
UWS Sport highlights several key documents in relation to our service delivery across our operations.
Find these under the sports section of Policies, Procedures and Guidance

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/uws-sport/gym-facilities-at-uws/gym-memberships:
Students and Staff benefit from free gym membership while at UWS, while the wider community can become a member with no joining fees, with unlimited access to the gyms and fitness classes.
Find our range of membership options below and register today.
All UWS Students can benefit from free access to all UWS operated gym facilities.
Set up your membership
On completion, visit your UWS gym with your student card and our friendly staff team will provide you with a tour and further information to ensure you get your fitness journey off to a great start.
All UWS Staff can benefit from free access to all UWS operated gym facilities.
On completion, visit your UWS gym with your staff card and our friendly staff team will provide you with a tour and further information to ensure you get your fitness journey off to a great start.
UWS Sport is delighted to provide community access to selected UWS operated facilities.
We have a wide range of community memberships including monthly, annual and day passes.
Our membership includes no up-front fees, no direct debit set up commitment, and no joining fee.
Once registered, visit your selected gym where payment will be made and our friendly team will activate your membership and provide further information to ensure you get your fitness journey off to a great start.
Membership prices are set dependant on the gym location and start from:
Concessions are available to a wide range of users, including:
Students and staff at Dumfries & Galloway College and University of Glasgow on our Crichton Campus benefit from free membership and should fill in the community membership form when applying.
All of our members, Student, Staff and Community must have read and agree to the following documents as part of their membership activation.
For general enquiries: sportenquiry@uws.ac.uk
For enquiries specific to our campus gyms:
Email: ayrsportservices@uws.ac.uk
Phone: 01292 886281
Email: SportDumfries@uws.ac.uk
Phone: 01387 345856
Email: SportLanarkshire@uws.ac.uk
Phone: 01698 894420
Email: uwspaisley.campusgym@uws.ac.uk
Phone: 0141 848 3076

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/student-support-wellbeing/supporting-your-studies:
We want every student to fulfil their academic potential while studying at UWS.
Our team of advisers provide academic advice, guidance and resources.
These help students to develop the skills they need for success at university and beyond.
Support includes guidance on:
Support is delivered via one-to-one appointments, drop-in sessions, group workshops and online resources.
Online support is available to distance learners, part-time students and those unable to attend drop-in sessions.
We also work with teaching staff at UWS to embed learning skills into the curriculum to support the development of new and innovative practice in this area.
Each of our five campuses has its own Library, stocked with a range of books and journals.
As a UWS student, you have 24/7 access to electronic resources such as e-Books, e-journals, and digital media.
'One Search' is our online search tool.
It's used to check the availability of print and electronic resources in UWS Library.
You can also reserve and renew books online and check what you have on loan at any time via 'One Search'.
Our Librarians are here to offer advice and guidance.
They can give an introduction to UWS Library, resources available and how to reference your work.
Every student at UWS will have access to a Personal Tutor from within their academic school.
Personal Tutors provide support and guidance to help students successfully complete their studies.
We offer pre-sessional courses for international students whose native language might not be English.
These courses help students meet the English language entry requirements to enroll on a programme at UWS.
They can also prepare you for study elsewhere in the UK.
UWS also offers in-sessional English language support for all students studying on its degree programmes.
Our team of Academic Skills Advisers provide advice, guidance, and resources to help develop your academic skills for success at university and beyond..
The Academic Skills Team website hosts a wide variety of resources to help with your Career Development, as well as an online calendar for booking appointments and events.
visit the academic skills team website

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/student-support-wellbeing/money-advice:
At UWS, we want our students get the most out of their university experience.
Our Funding and Advice team help students plan ahead financially.
It means our students can focus on their studies and enjoy their time at university.
You do not have to be a UWS student to use our services.
We encourage prospective students to plan ahead financially for their studies.
We're happy to help, whether you're thinking about studying at UWS or are planning ahead for a course that starts soon.
Advice and information is available through online resources.
Our team of specialist advisers are on hand for more complex enquiries.
Get in touch with the Hub or Student Link on your campus to make an appointment.
It's important to plan ahead financially for your time at university.
Once you have an idea of the student funding you're entitled to, start to think about how far this will stretch.
And how you can budget this effectively.
Whether it's undergraduate or postgraduate study, full-time or part-time, we can help you understand how you can meet the cost of your studies at UWS.
There's also information on what type of living costs support might be available.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/student-support-wellbeing/supporting-your-wellbeing:
Staying healthy, looking after yourself and feeling good are important at any time of life, but particularly while you are a student .
UWS ha ve a range of services to support you during your studies and help you achieve success.
For any questions about being a student at UWS, The Student Hub (Ayr, Dumfries, Lanarkshire and Paisley campuses) and London Hub (London campus) are here to help.
They can assist with non-academic student enquiries and access to support  services including:
For any questions, email us at hub@uws.ac.uk
If you have a disability, a long-standing medical condition or a specific learning difficulty such as dyslexia, the Disability Service can help you.
Our advisers work with you to develop the right support for lectures, individual study and assessments.
Support is flexible.
It can be adapted to the changing demands of your course or individual circumstances.
If you’re a student or a prospective student, get in touch as early as possible to start the process of arranging personalised support.
If any issues are affecting your emotional wellbeing, the counselling service at UWS can help.
The counselling team creates a safe, affirming and welcoming environment that embraces human diversity.
It’s important to us to provide equality of services and care to everyone, regardless of age, disability, race, sexual orientation, gender, gender identity, religion or belief.
Each Scottish campus has a ‘space of contemplation’.
Enrolled students and staff are welcome to use these rooms to pray, meditate, reflect or just take a break from daily pressures.
Staying active is an important part of maintaining your physical and mental wellbeing.
Students at each UWS campus have access to a range of sporting and fitness facilities to keep fit and healthy.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/student-support-wellbeing/supporting-care-experienced-student-carers-and-estranged-students:
As Scotland's leading university for Widening Access, UWS firmly believes that education should be available to all.
As one of the first Scottish Institutions to take the Stand Alone Pledge, and in light of the closure of the Stand Alone Charity, UWS pledges to continue to support estranged students in their journey within higher education from pre-entry to graduation.
UWS has also been celebrated for its particular support to estranged students and was awarded in the categories 'Pre-entry Information Advice and Guidance' and 'Estranged Students' Voice & Engagement' at the Stand Alone Pledge Awards 2023.
UWS was delighted to receive the “Going Higher Award for Student Carers Recognition Award” from Carers Trust Scotland in 2021 for its commitment and hard work in supporting Student Carers.
The WeCare team also works closely with external organisations, such as carer centres across the West of Scotland.
We can signpost you to various local support organisations if needed.
The Scottish Funding Council (SFC) define the term care-experienced as:
UWS is committed to supporting care-experienced students.
To meet this commitment, we have developed a wide range of support services to ensure that all students fulfil their potential, achieve their goals and enjoy their time at UWS.
We have a strong tradition of working with care-experienced applicants and students.
This commitment is embedded in all of our provision and is a strategic priority for UWS.
We'll continue to work in partnership, both internally and externally, with other Corporate Parents to provide support so that our care experienced students will have a positive experience at UWS from pre-entry to after graduation.
We work in partnership with WhoCares?
Scotland to provide annual Corporate Parenting Training to staff at all levels within the University.
The content of this training is fully-informed by the voice of care-experienced people to support UWS staff’s knowledge and understanding of Care Experience.
You can find out more information on bespoke support available at UWS here:
Care Experienced Student Support Leaflet
UWS is committed to supporting estranged students at UWS.
The University has taken The Stand Alone Pledge, which helps institutions support estranged students by providing a public commitment to improving policies and increasing support for students studying without a family network.
If you are thinking of studying/or are currently studying at UWS, are estranged from your family and would like to know what additional support might be available, or for further information, contact: WeCare@uws.ac.uk
Estranged Student Support Leaflet
Carers Trust Scotland defines a carer as anyone who cares, unpaid, for a friend or relative who due to illness, disability, a mental health problem or an addiction cannot cope without their support.
There are many commitments that students who are caring unpaid for a member of their family, friend who is ill, disabled or has mental health or addiction problems.
UWS has achieved the Aim Higher Award for Student Carers though the Carers Trust Scotland.
If you are a student carer at UWS, or have applied to study at UWS, email WeCare@uws.ac.uk for more information.
Carers Student Support Leaflet
UWS is committed to widening access and providing opportunities for all.
For further advice and support, contact: wecare@uws.ac.uk
Our UWS Cares - Here for You page contains information and FAQs, which outline the range of support options that are available for care-experienced, student carers or estranged students.
Please also visit our Widening Access at UWS page for more information.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/student-support-wellbeing/supporting-you:
UWS is an inclusive and accessible modern university.
Every student should have a positive university experience, regardless of their personal circumstances.
We have a diverse student population and so work to provide our services on a case-by-case basis.
We consider each student's unique circumstances and how to best meet their individual needs.
Disabled students are encouraged to look at the Disability Service webpage in advance of starting their studies and make an appointment with a disability advisor if they think this might be helpful.
You can find out more about the services available to support student studies and wellbeing .
If you're a parent planning to study at UWS, childcare will be a consideration.
It's important you find the right childcare provider for you.
And that have access to any funding that you may be entitled to to help you meet the cost of this.
At UWS, we do not have childcare facilities.
However, we can offer childcare funding to students who demonstrate a need for additional financial support.
Visit Money, Fees and Funding to see the support that might be available through your statutory student support package.
You'll also see the discretionary and childcare funds available, along with application guidelines.
It's important that you research the funding options available to you before you commit to any childcare contracts.
We recommend applying as early as possible for your statutory student support.
We also start accepting applications to the discretionary and childcare funds as early as 1st July.
That means you can receive a decision about the funding you are eligible for before terms starts.
As a University student, you must undertake independent study, as well as attending classes and lectures.
Our childcare fund procedures take this into account.
You do not need you to wait until you have a timetable before you can apply.
The funding is flexible.
If you need help sourcing childcare, the following organisations may be able to assist:
Being a student carer, a care-experienced student or an estranged student can have a big impact on your life and studies.
We have a dedicated team to support as you make the transition to university study.
They'll also help get the most out of your time whilst you're a UWS student.
Contact our team for more information: WeCare@uws.ac.uk
We provide a wide range of support for our students.
UWS is a proud Corporate Parent.
View the UWS Corporate Parenting Plan 2024

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/accommodation/paisley-campus-accommodation:
Please do not arrive at a UWS residence without a confirmed lease agreement.
Each flat houses four to six students in large en-suite bedrooms with a shared kitchen and lounge area.
The residence also has a social space with a pool table, two large screen televisions, games console and vending machines.
There is 24 hour security and CCTV.
UWS Paisley residence comes with everything you need to get you settled into your accommodation.
Each flat is equipped with:
Ensuite flat
£120.00 per week (38 week full term)
See full payment plan information for 2025/26.
UWS STUDENT RESIDENCES PAYMENT PLAN 2025/26 (pdf)
This accommodation is located right at the heart of our Paisley Campus, with easy access to teaching facilities, the Students' Union, gym and Paisley town centre.
Address: 35 Storie Street, Paisley, PA1 2AP
Please use the following form to apply for the 2025/26 academic year.
Applications for the 2025/26 session
Find out more about our allocation process and waiting list
If you require any assistance please see our FAQ's or contact us at accommodation@uws.ac.uk
Situated in Paisley town centre, offering spacious self-catering 1 & 2 bedroom flats (2 bedrooms flat consist of 2 separate single rooms), sharing the kitchen/lounge and shower room.
The accommodation is situated in a 19th Century building and benefits from 24 hour security and CCTV.
One single room in two bed flat
£98.00 per week (38 week full term)
One double room in two bed flat
£115.00 per week (38 week full term)
One bed apartment
£166.00 per week (38 week full term)
Based on the west side of Paisley Campus residents have perfect access to the University and its facilities.
The accommodation is conveniently placed for access to buses, the high street shops, restaurants and nightlife with Paisley Gilmour Street station a short walk away.
Address: 17-25 Lady Lane, Paisley, PA1 2LH
If you would like more information, please contact the accommodation office:
accommodation@uws.ac.uk
Paisley Campus Paisley PA1 2BE
Campus Tel: +44 (0)141 848 3000
Residences Tel: +44 (0)141 848 3159
Email: accommodation@uws.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/accommodation/ayr-campus-accommodation:
UWS Ayr Residences provides you with everything you need to get quickly settled into your new home.
Shared kitchens are equipped with:
Each private en-suite bedroom includes:
Studio apartment
£173.00 per week (38 week full term)
Ensuite apartment
£120 per week (38 week full term)
See full payment plan information for 2025/26 and 2024/25 below.
UWS STUDENT RESIDENCES PAYMENT PLAN 2024/25 (pdf)
Based on Ayr Campus residents have perfect access to the University and its facilities.
Based near the river with scenic walks, the accommodation is conveniently placed for access to busses, Ayr train station and the high street shops and restaurants.
Address: University Avenue, Ayr, KA8 0SX
Applications for 25/26 session
UWS Ayr Campus University Avenue Ayr KA8 0SX
Campus Tel: +44 (0)1292 886000
Student residences
Residences Tel: +44 (0) 1292886316

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/accommodation/life-in-halls-at-uws:
Our halls of residence offer more than just a place to stay—they’re vibrant, inclusive communities where students thrive.
Designed to support both independence and connection, our people-focused approach ensures every student feels at home, with opportunities to build meaningful relationships and grow personally.
Living in our halls means being part of a supportive environment that promotes mental well-being, resilience, and academic success.
From mindfulness sessions to social events, our spaces are designed to help you find balance, make friends, and feel part of something bigger.
Experience student life in a community that’s built to support your journey—at university and beyond.
Life in UWS Residences is about more than just a place to stay, it’s a community.
Our ResLife team runs a packed calendar of events and activities all year round, from seasonal celebrations and cultural festivals to competitions and weekly socials like movie nights and games nights.
There’s always something happening, and it’s a great way to meet new people, make friends, and feel at home.
With the help of our amazing Eventeers, we create a welcoming and inclusive social programme designed around you.
Check out the fun on Instagram: @UWSresidences
Want to help shape the social life in halls?
Eventeers are student volunteers who bring the buzz to UWS Residences.
Whether you’ve got loads of ideas or just want to help out now and then, there’s a place for you.
As an Eventeer, you can:
It’s flexible, fun, and a great way to meet people and build your skills.
Interested?
Chat to the ResLife team at reception or email us at accommodation@uws.ac.uk .
A handy guide of what to bring with you when you move to UWS Residences .
If you feel like you're running out of time or ideas then Uni Kit Out offer Student Package starter kits helping make moving in to your new accommodation as easy as possible.
You can also get 10% off by using the code UWS10 at the checkout!
Shop for bedroom, kitchen and bathroom items which will then be delivered straight to halls before you arrive.
We also have our Reslife shop at accommodation reception where you can purchase these items.
The Brodie’s Bike Project was set up in memory of UWS student Brodie, who passed away in 2016.
Brodie loved to cycle, and his family kindly donated bikes and equipment to enable UWS students staying at the residences easy access to go on a bike ride.
The project is to inspire students to take time out of their busy university schedule, to get into nature and support their mental health.
The bikes also help students get to classes, placements, and about town.
The project started in Ayr with 2 bikes, and through the hard work of colleagues and Brodie’s family we have been able to further enhance the project to 12 bikes in Paisley Residences and 11 bikes in Ayr Residences.
Learn more about our specific halls of residence in Ayr and Paisley and explore the campuses which have a range of facilities such as gyms and the library to enhance your stay in halls.
Find out more about accommodation options at UWS Ayr Campus.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/accommodation/allocations-and-waiting-list:
In general, each year the number of applications exceeds the number of places available.
It has therefore been necessary to determine the criteria whereby applicants are selected for an offer of a place in residence.
The applications for a place in accommodation are sub-divided into non-EU students, EU Students and UK students.
In the case of under 18 years and students with disabilities no distinction is made between UK, EU and non-EU.
For UK Students, the distance from campus and ease of transport is taken into consideration and priority is given to first year students.
In the final analysis the objective is to distribute the limited number of places in as fair a manner as possible.
Full fee non-EU students, who have applied on-line by the last Monday of June, will have accommodation reserved for the period of the contract which is 38 weeks.
However, if you are only studying at the University of the West of Scotland for 1 term the accommodation will be reserved for that length of time (16 and 17 weeks).
Single term bookings are only available to Erasmus and International programmes.
A waiting list of application forms is maintained by the Residence Team in chronological date order.
University accommodation will only be granted to a matriculated enrolled Student in full time attendance at the University or as agreed by the Operations Manager.
As vacancies occur an offer is made to the next person on the waiting list whose stated preference concurs with the type of vacancy available.
If a student refuses the offer of a flat without good reason their application will revert to the end of the waiting list.
Sharing preferences will be taken into account however the Residence Team will ultimately decide on the selection of residents.
In non ensuite accommodation, sharing is subject to certain conditions.
The offer of accommodation is made in the first instance on the basis of one or two terms, dependant on course requirements.
The period of residence and charge will commence from the date shown on the Accommodation Rental Agreement, which will require to be accepted online.
If we have not received your accepted Accommodation Rental Agreement and prepayment before you arrive at the Residence you will not be able to collect your keys.
It is important to note that certain extenuating circumstances may dictate that the original room offered may not be available at the time of arrival.
Rooms are allocated for prescribed occupancy, that is to say, residents must not change rooms, without application to, and permission being obtained from the Residence Services Manager.
The Operations Manager will have the final decision regarding the allocation or termination of lets, in the event of an appeal.
Students in debt to the University either from accommodation or fees will not be considered for University Accommodation.
The Residence Team has the right to refuse accommodation to any student that has been involved in a disciplinary procedure during their stay in UWS accommodation.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/accommodation/faqs:
You can make a booking by using the links below or on our website and follow the instructions provided.
If you have any queries, please email the Accommodation Office at accommodation@uws.ac.uk
Depending on the status of your application and the availability we will send you an offer for accommodation containing a link to your Rental Agreement which you will find on the Residence Portal.
Once you have checked the dates and payment on your lease, and accepted the offer for accommodation, work through your to do list.
Once you accept the accommodation the next section is the to do list: 1) To make a pre-payment, full payment or set up a payment plan; 2) To upload a photograph; 3) Complete details, including address, emergency contact, and arrival date 4) Complete the induction 5) Accept the Terms and your offer.
If you need any further assistance please call our reservations teams who will be happy to assist you:
Ayr Residence: +44 (0)1292 886 316
Paisley Residence: +44 (0) 141 848 3159
Any special requests will be considered but cannot be guaranteed.
We have accessible accommodation at our residences; please add any comments on your application form regarding health or access requirements.
Learn more about our disability and accessibility initiatives at UWS
All our rooms are single occupancy only.
We do not provide accommodation for families or couples.
Bedroom: Mattress, computer chair, desk, fully furnished.
Kitchen: Hob, oven, fridge freezer, microwave, kettle, hoover, mop & bucket, sweeping brush.
Towels, bedding, crockery, cutlery, and cooking utensils are not provided.
You can purchase bedding, kitchen and cleaning packs from the ResLife shop, open Monday-Friday 9:00am - 4:30pm.
Alternatively, order from UniKitOut.com and we can deliver your package to your room ready for your arrival.
Don’t forget to enter UWS10 at check out you will get 10 % discount.
Storie Street and Ayr rooms have a small double bed (4ft x 6ft 3”).
At Lady Lane, small rooms have a single bed (3ft x 6ft 3”), and the larger bedrooms have a small double bed.
There is no deposit however we do require a pre-payment of £100 to be made to confirm your booking before you arrive.
This is deducted from your total accommodation fee.
UWS are unable to take payments in cash or travellers’ cheques.
UWS would advise that the safest and simplest way to make a payment is through the Residence portal or online.
The University does not request that you have a guarantor.
Yes, you can book accommodation if you are under 18 however, we recommend that you ask your parent or legal representative to read the Rental Agreement.
You are required to book your arrival slot on the residence portal.
Check out time is prior to 11am on the day of departure.
UWS endeavours to allocate students to flats that are appropriate to their situation and preferences.
Please enter any specific requests on your application.
We will try to accommodate your requests but are unable to provide any guarantees.
Limited car parking is available at our Ayr residences.
Please contact the Residence Team to book in advance as availability may be limited.
Our Paisley residences do not have student parking.
All residences have free high-speed internet connections available
Our residences have a team of staff on-site to help students with any issues which arise.
All of our residences have 24-hour on-site security, CCTV and individually secured rooms.
In Ayr, and in the Storie Street residence in Paisley, we also have electronic access control.
Please check details of the residence of your choice to see what security arrangements are in place.
UWS also has a Wellbeing team.
UWS has a strict policy that candles and plug in air fresheners are not permitted on site.
If you bring or purchase a TV your room/flat, and use it to watch any live television or BBC content, you are require to pay for a television licence.
Further information on TV Licensing and for detailed information on your specific needs and circumstances at TVlicensing.co.uk .
Smoking is not permitted in any UWS Residences, this policy includes all communal areas, lounges, hallways, corridors, and stairwells
Our no smoking policy also applies to bedrooms/flats and extends to external courtyard areas.
Yes, but all visitors must report to reception to sign in.
This is for reason of safety and security and so that in the event of an emergency the management team will know who is on site.
Each student is permitted a maximum of one guest at a time: one night during the week and 1 night at the weekend.
All our residences are staffed 24-hours a day, 7 days a week.
There are cycle racks at Ayr and Storie Street residences.
These are left at the owners’ risk.
No bikes are allowed in the rooms/flats.
Pets are not allowed in any of the residences.
You can cancel your accommodation if you contact the Residence Team in writing within 14 days of accepting your booking.
Throughout the year we organise a series of events.
This is a good way to meet other residents.
You can find details on our social media channels - @UWSresidences
Yes.
The Brodie’s Bike Project is available at Paisley and Ayr residences, and allows students staying with us to use a bike for free on a short loan basis.
There is a common room at Ayr and Paisley Storie Street residence.
The common room is your space, where you can watch TV, play pool, or have a get together with friends.
Your inventory form is available on the Residence portal.
Your room is yours for the period of your lease.
To make a claim you will need to contact the insurance company direct, details are available on the Welcome Guide.
Each campus has a laundry with washing machines and dryers.
All letters and parcels are delivered to reception.
You will need to check regularly for letters.
The team will let you know there is a parcel to collect.
For any letters and parcels, you can use the residences address below.
For Paisley residences:
UWS Residences, 35 Storie Street, Paisley, PA1 2AP
For Ayr residences: UWS Residences, UWS Ayr Campus, University Avenue, Ayr, KA8 0SX
Fridges are not permitted in bedrooms.
Arrangements are provided in the kitchen to store chilled foods.
If you have a medical condition which requires you to have a fridge in your room evidence of this must be provided to the Residence Services Manager.
It is the student’s own responsibility to clean their room and they are jointly responsible for cleaning their flat.
A list of local GP's will be provided on arrival.
A list of local dentists will be provided on arrival.
If you have issues with wi-fi or other IT problems please contact the helpdesk: Helpdesk@uws.ac.uk or on 0141 848 3999
Please contact the Residences team on site or by email accommodation@uws.ac.uk
It is possible to terminate your contract but only in extenuating circumstances.
Please contact the Residence Services Manager to discuss.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/uws-sport/team-uws/sport-scholarship:
The Sport Scholarship programme at UWS aims to support those with the potential to be at the top of their sport.
Criteria eligibility includes international, national and regional standard athletes with additional funding available for those performing at regional level with aspirations to national and international standards.
UWS Sport Scholarships will provide financial scholarships as well as support for student athletes to access the University's sports facilities, educational workshops, and sports science/medicine support.
A Sport Scholarship will help you to:
Apply for UWS sports scholarship
This award is for elite level athletes who receive adequate support elsewhere (NGB, Institute, winning students).
These athletes are encouraged to compete for the University and are expected to profile and highlight the support they receive from the university at any appropriate opportunity (eg media interviews/profiles etc)
What you receive:
Gold Criteria:
National or International Standard
This awards is for athletes who do not receive significant funding or support but demonstrate the potential to become successful at International level and are expected to compete for the University.
Applications to be supported by:
Silver Criteria:
National Standard
This award is for athletes who do not receive significant funding or support but demonstrate the potential to become successful at National level and are expected to compete for the University.
Bronze Criteria:
Demonstrate the potential for success at national level
UWS Sport Scholarships are awarded at the start of the academic term each year.
Applications will open during the summer and close in September.
To apply for the UWS Sport Scholarship, please complete the application form.
Please note: Awarding sport scholarships is a competitive process.
Meeting the criteria does not mean you will automatically receive a scholarship.
Apply for sport scholarship
Stephen is a 4th year Sport and Exercise Science student at UWS’ Lanarkshire Campus.
The boxer has represented Scotland at junior and senior level, most notably at the 2022 Birmingham and 2018 Gold Coast Commonwealth Games.
Stephen has also represented Scotland and GB at European and World Championships as well as picking up multiple medals at the Scottish Elite Open Championships, British Championships and at international championships.
The Sport Scholarship Programme provided Stephen with the support to balance his studies and his boxing commitments within the Boxing Scotland Performance Pathway.
The UWS Sport Scholarship allowed Savannah to focus on her Netball commitments whilst completing her Sport and Exercise degree.
Savannah has represented Scotland at the Netball Youth World Cup and at the European Championships and co-captained the national team against The Isle of Man.
The Scottish international had the opportunity to balance education with professional aspirations as she was involved in the professional Vitality Netball Superleague Sirens side training and development programme.
Ross, a Lanarkshire Campus Sport and Exercise Science student, secured his second Commonwealth Games selection at Birmingham 2022, where he debuted in 2018 at the Gold Coast Games.
Ross was Scotland’s top athlete at the 2017 Commonwealth Wrestling Championships where he took home Bronze.
He then went on to win Gold at the British Championships and Silver at the British Open.
The Sport Scholarship programme has supported Ross with the academic flexibility needed to balance his education with elite level training.
Jaylen has competed at the highest level of collegiate basketball in Scotland and the USA, earning a Scholarship to the prestigious National Collegiate Athletics Association (NCAA) Division 1 programme, University of Massachusetts.
Jaylen looked for his next opportunity of pursuing professional basketball or furthering his education and was able to combine education and preparation for a professional career through the UWS Sport Scholarship.
Jaylen guided Team UWS Basketball to the Scottish National Championship and BUCS Tier 1 title whilst completing his Masters in Social Science.
Annabel, a PhD student with a Dentistry background, had a stellar season where she took home the Scottish Universities 5k Championship and topped her season off as she met the Team Scotland Commonwealth Games qualification.
Annabel took home three 5k, three 10k and a Half Marathon title in a medal laden season.
Annabel was supported by the Sport Scholarship to pursue sport and education at the highest level.
The Lanarkshire Campus kickboxer had a solid season in 2021-22, where the Sport Scholarship played a key role in supporting Hayden to medal success.
Taking home one of Team UWS’ three Scottish National Championships, as he lifted the World Kickboxing Association Scottish Championship.
The support through the Scholarship allowed Hayden to focus on his training towards a National Championship whilst receiving the academic flexibility and support when needed.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/uws-sport/team-uws/a-z-sport-clubs:
Team UWS offers competitive and recreational memberships, for all of our clubs.
For more information and to purchase your membership, click here.
We are always growing and adding new sports to our offer.
If you don't see your sport below, get in touch to find out how you can work with us to get it started!
Catering to all levels of ability, joining the Archery team is a great chance to try something new, or develop your skill set if you already have experience.
Badminton is a fantastic way to get involved in either competitive or recreational sessions, with the opportunity available to compete in the BUCS leagues.
Our Men’s Basketball programme have grown massively in recent years, with a meteoric rise to the top of Scottish University Basketball, playing in BUCS Tier 1.
Our Women’s Basketball caters to all abilities and has a proud history within BUCS and SSS Competitions.
Team UWS Foxes has regularly been one of the largest clubs within Team UWS.
Sign up for Football and head down to your first training session.
All team members will be required to purchase a Team UWS membership that you can buy from our Online Store.
Our Hockey club offer a superb student experience for new or experienced players.
There are a host of BUCS and SSS Championships available across the season, with many Team UWS athletes representing the university each year.
From Athletics to Swimming, Judo to Powerlifting, you can...
One of our longest-running teams, the Netball team compete within the BUCS leagues.
Join Women's rugby at UWS!
Over the last few seasons them Mens’ Volleyball club has grown in terms of size and continue to be successful within the BUCS Volleyball Leagues.
Our Women’s Volleyball team grow from strength to strength each year and are growing on and off the court.
Students are required to purchase a Team UWS membership to access our clubs and sessions.
We are delighted to be able to offer one of the most affordable memberships
in the sector and have a range of benefits available to our students.
Team UWS offers competitive, recreational and associate memberships, to suit your needs.
Purchase a membership

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/uws-sport/active-life-archive:
Edition 3 2025
Edition 2 2025
Edition 1 2024

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/campuses/lanarkshire-campus/discover-lanarkshire:
Located in the heart of Lanarkshire, the town of Hamilton is well-served with travel links and is centrally located just eleven miles south of Glasgow and less than four miles from the campus.
Hamilton offers lots to see and do – including a number of country parks and nature reserves such as Strathclyde Park.
The recently regenerated town centre offers plenty of shopping options as well as a theatre, a new cinema and a host of diverse pubs, nightclubs and restaurants.
Hamilton offers an ideal combination of town and country living, with good access to the cities of Glasgow, Edinburgh and Stirling.
The historic town of Hamilton was originally known as Cadzow or Cadyou .
During the Wars of Scottish Independence the Hamilton family switched allegiance from the English to Robert the Bruce and were rewarded for this act with a gift of land, including Cadzow , which the family chose to rename Hamilton.
The Hamilton family made their mark on the town, constructing numerous grand buildings and landmarks in the area, many of which are still standing today.
These include Hamilton Palace (now demolished), which at one time was the largest non-royal residence in the western world, and Hamilton Mausoleum.
Other historic buildings of note include the Hamilton Old Parish Church, built by William Adam in 1734, Hamilton Townhouse and 17 Burnbank Road – the house belonging to explorer and missionary Dr David Livingstone.
Situated in the former Low Parks of the Duke of Hamilton’s estates, the museum is housed in two historic buildings of national importance: Portland and the former Palace Riding School.
It traces the local history of South Lanarkshire including working life; local trades and industry; and the history of the local regiment.
Chatelherault was built as a hunting lodge and summer house by the Duke of Hamilton in the 18th century.
Today, the building serves as a visitor centre with galleries and exhibitions as well as being one of Scotland’s premier venues for weddings, conference and events.
Visitors can also enjoy Chatelherault’s scenic grounds with over 10 miles of walks to explore.
Built in the grounds of the now demolished Hamilton Palace, Hamilton Mausoleum was the final resting place of the family of the Dukes of Hamilton.
It is known for having one of the longest echoes of any man-made structure in the world – an impressive 15 seconds.
Set in 400 hectares of countryside in the River Clyde valley, Strathclyde Country Park is a popular visitor attraction with a great range of activities and events on offer.
These include guided nature walks, music festivals, outdoor adventures parks and a water sports centre.
Hamilton has plenty of variety when it comes to eating out.
For a quick bite there are a great range of cafes, bakeries and takeaways serving everything from pizzas and burgers to tandoori and pakora.
For more formal dining, there are a variety of restaurants and family-owned gastro pubs serving great food.
The List gives a rundown of the all the eateries in town.
If it’s a night out you fancy, Hamilton has a good selection of pubs and bars.
From traditional establishments serving local ales to quirky, modern establishments like Junkyard that boast an impressive cocktail menu and great music every night of the week.
The Town House, a category ‘A’ listed building, serves as a multipurpose arts venue for the town of Hamilton.
It hosts a variety of theatrical productions throughout the year, from West End hits and performances by national companies through to local amateur groups.
There are also a range of course and classes available, including drama, dance, music and painting.
If shopping is your thing, there is plenty of variety in Hamilton to keep you busy.
From small independent boutiques to national and international retail brands, shopping in Hamilton is defined by choice and individuality, all at a competitive price.
For sports fans, Hamilton Palace Sports Grounds offers a number of flood-lit grass and synthetic pitches for football, rugby and cricket, together with tennis courts and bowling greens.
Hamilton Water Palace is South Lanarkshire’s most popular swimming pool.
Boasting a competition pool, flume, lazy rapids, tyre slide and specially designed children’s area, it’s a great place for a day out.
The South Lanarkshire area is home to six municipal golf courses suitable for all abilities and excellent for golf outings and visiting parties.
Season tickets are available as well as a "pay as you play" option.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/campuses/paisley-campus/discover-paisley:
Paisley is the largest town in Scotland, located just a few miles from Glasgow on the banks of the White Cart Water.
The town of Paisley has religious origins, with the first known settlement in the area connected to a chapel said to have been built by Saint Mirin next to the White Cart Water in the 6 th or 7 th century.
A priory was established in 1163 and in 1245 this was raised to the status of an Abbey.
A community grew around the Abbey as it became one of Scotland’s major religious houses and it is widely accepted that William Wallace was educated t here.
The abbey is also referred to as 'Cradle of the Royal Stewarts' as it is reported to have played an important part to in saving the life of the infant child of Marjorie Bruce; later the child became King Robert II of Scotland.
It is the burial place for King Robert III of Scotland, as well as six High Stewards of Scotland.
The Royal Stewart Dynasty, has links with our current Royal family.
Over the years, Paisley flourished as a result of trading, markets and commerce.
However, the Industrial Revolution turned Paisley from a quiet market town to an im portant centre of commerce and indus try.
T extile mills were built to produce imitation Kashmir shawls called ‘Paisley’ and the town became the world centre for thread making.
The town’s most famous product was the shawls, decorated with the Paisley pattern, and made fashionable by a young Queen Victoria.
Although the shawls’ popularity had waned by the late 1870s, the teardrop Paisley pattern remains an important symbol of the town to this day.
Although most famous for its textiles, Paisley was also home to a number of other industries including food manufacturers - marmalade, cornflour, mayonnaise, baby food and soup have all be made in the town.
There was also a car factory, a British Gas distribution and service centre, and a Cadbury’s distribution centre.
However, these have all now ceased operation.
Founded in 1163 but with origins dating back to the 6th or 7th centuries, the abbey is located on the east bank of the White Cart Water in the centre of Paisley town.
Paisley Abbey is a spectacular and imposing building.
Complete with royal tombs, stunning woodcarvings, one of the finest organ’s in Scotland and stained glass windows, the Abbey is Paisley’s most popular attraction and well worth a visit.
With 480 acres of woodland, farmland and moorland to explore, Gleniffer Braes Country Park is an excellent choice for a day out.
Visitors can enjoy relaxing woodland walks, bird watching, picnicking and wonderful views.
For the serious walkers there are miles of informal paths throughout the park, as well as signposted routes leading wider walking networks including the Brandy Burn Way and the Fereneze Braes Path Network.
Coats Observatory is part of Paisley Museum, and an essential item on the agenda of any visitor to the town.
Built in 1883, it is the oldest public observatory in the country and today it’s home to a vast range of telescopes as well as a digital planetarium.
A striking feature of the Paisley skyline for more than 100 years, the Thomas Coats Memorial Baptist Church stands at the end of Paisley High Street.
Commissioned by the family of Thomas Coats of Ferguslie, six architects were invited to submit designs for the new church in a competition.
The winning design came from Hippolyte J Blanc who was an admirer of medieval architecture, hence the building's Gothic Revival style.
If you fancy a night on the tiles, Paisley has plenty to offer.
There are lots of traditional pubs perfect for a quiet drink and a catch up with friends.
If you’re after somewhere a bit livelier, Saporito Wine Bar and The Jam Jar are both popular choices and great places to go if you enjoy a good cocktail.
If it’s live music that you like, The Bungalow is worth a visit with regular band nights, open mics and other music events.
Paisley has no shortage of places in which to eat, drink and be merry.
The town centre is home to a great variety of cafés and restaurants serving everything from quick bites and speciality coffees to fine dining and pub grub for all the family to enjoy.
The List has a guide to eating out in the town.
Find out more...
Renfrewshire and Paisley boasts thriving programme of professional and amateur theatre, music, dance, comedy, film and creative classes in several locations around the county and town.
If you would like a more cultured night out then Paisley Arts Centre is the place to be.
Throughout the year it hosts top performers in theatre, music, dance and comedy as well as being to home to its very own theatre company (PACE) and a youth theatre with illustrious graduates including James McAvoy and Paulo Nutini.
Housed in a stunning Victorian building, Paisley Museum is home to whole host of treasures including fine art, sculptures, mediaeval manuscripts and a wealth of interesting artefacts of local significance.
The highlight of the museum is its collection of Paisley shawls, which is a Recognised Collection of Significance to Scotland.
There is also a loom gallery, showcasing the original looms used to produce the shawls.
Just a short bus ride (10 mins) from centre of the town at the Braehead Shopping complex is Snow Factor, Scotland's only snow dome featuring the UK's longest indoor real snow slope (168m).
It’s open for skiing and snowboarding every day of the year (except Christmas day) it is the perfect place to practice and train.
But, lessons are available for all levels and ages from complete beginners upwards, it is the perfect place to learn to ski, snowboard or ice climb– whatever the weather.
Just a short busride (10 mins) from centre of the town at the Braehead Shopping complex is Snow Factor, Braehead shopping complex also features The Drop Climbzone, a state-of-the-art aerial adventure course with one of the largest freestanding climbing walls in the UK.
If that wasn't enough, there's also Paradise Island miniature golf and Laser Station gaming area to keep you entertained.
In addition to university sports clubs and societies, Paisley has a proud tradition of sporting prowess and activities and offers you the opportunity to get involved in a variety of sports clubs.
Paisley is home to: St.
Mirren F.C.
(Scottish Championship professional football club), Kelburne Cricket Club, Ferguslie Cricket Club, Paisley Rugby Club and Kelburne Hockey Club, Braehead Clan (ice hockey club).
It also has many local tennis and squash clubs, golf clubs, gyms and fitness centres as well as the Lagoon swimming and leisure centre.
There really is something for everyone.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/blog/7-things-i-wish-i-knew-before-starting-uni:
Hey!
I’m Alesha , and I’m halfway through my Sport and Exercise Science degree at UWS.
Starting uni was exciting, but also a bit overwhelming - there’s so much to learn outside of lectures.
These are just a few things I wish I’d known earlier, and I hope they help you settle in to #LifeAtUWS!
Even when it feels like no one’s noticing, your effort will show in the long run.
Stay consistent, even on the tough days.
You’ll thank yourself later when those marks and opportunities start rolling in.
It’s tempting to skip the extras, but trust me, they matter.
Optional readings, practice tasks, and tutorials can deepen your understanding and set you apart from your peers.
It’s the difference between scraping by and standing out.
Referencing is a big deal at UWS.
So many students lose easy marks just because they didn’t cite properly.
Get familiar with Cite Them Right and the UWS Harvard Guide early - it’ll save you stress later on.
Uni isn’t like school or college.
Lecturers give you the resources, but it’s up to you to use them.
There are no reminders - just deadlines.
Learning to manage your own time and workload is key.
Teamwork is a major part of the uni experience here.
It’s not always easy, but learning to collaborate with different people is a skill that’ll help you in your career.
Embrace it - even when it’s challenging.
From essay writing to mental health support, UWS has loads of services to help you succeed.
Check out Student Services - they’re genuinely helpful and easy to access.
Don’t wait until you’re struggling to reach out.
Whether it’s chatting with your lecturers, joining a society , or just saying hi to someone in class - go for it.
Everyone I’ve met at UWS has been lovely and supportive.
Feeling part of the community makes a huge difference.
These are just a few things I wish I knew earlier - so I hope they help.
You got this!

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/blog/sweat-socials-student-life-the-lowdown-on-student-sport:
Hi!
I’m Freya, the current Team UWS Sports President at the University and I’m here to tell you why you should consider getting involved with student sport and physical activity during your time at UWS.
Between the 9 a.m.
lectures, assessment deadlines and caffeine-fuelled study sessions, a bit of physical activity can be the well-deserved break you need.
Research proves that students involved in sport and physical activity have greater academic performance than students who don’t.
Cool, right?!
Also, joining a club or the gym is a great way to meet other students, make new friends, try something new and provide some time-off in your busy student schedule.
Not only that, but it's also a great builder for your CV; from teamwork to time management and leadership skills (even if it's just organising the end-of-year social).
It’s not all about becoming gym crazy or being the best in your club, as student sport is for everyone .
It’s just about finding the sport that’s right for you.
I joined the archery team as a complete beginner to meet other students (and truthfully, because I thought it sounded cool).
Through being involved with Team UWS, I’ve made friends for life, found a sport I love and had the opportunity to try a multitude of different sports including hockey, football, badminton, netball and volleyball to name a few.
The great thing about all the teams at UWS is they welcome all experience levels.
So, whether you’re a performance athlete or trying something for the first time like I did, there’s a space for you at every club.
And even if sport doesn’t interest you, being a student at UWS means you have FREE access to all the gyms across each of our Scottish campuses!
Did you know UWS was the first University in Scotland to offer free gym access to all students?
If you’re thinking “Okay, maybe I’ll give it a try” here’s some ideas for how you can jump in:
If you’re even slightly curious, I encourage you to give it a go!
Head along to one session, meet some new people and throw yourself into something new.
Worst case?
You decide it’s not for you.
Best case?
You find your new favourite way to de-stress, meet friends for life, and maybe even discover a hidden talent.
Student sport can change your life for the better.
Take it from me, I would know.
If you want to read some more about sport and physical activity at the university, take a look at our website for all things Team UWS.
See you at training!
#LetsGoWest

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/blog/trusting-the-process-from-finland-to-uws-and-beyond:
I had applied to study Business Information Technology with a focus on data analysis and service design after taking multiple gap years, as it felt like a safe choice.
I had gotten into a year abroad programme in Ireland and I had just found out that I didn’t get the housing I had applied for.
Something that was meant to be really exciting had just become a massive stressor.
I always dreamed of studying abroad but not just visiting, actually starting fresh in the long term.
So, I found myself searching for undergrad programmes in Scotland.
I spent many days reflecting and trying to find a programme that would match my interests of policy and social issues the best but there wasn’t many.
After results day I remember getting an email promoting BA( Hons) Social Sciences (Society, Politics and Policy) at UWS and I was instantly intrigued because it matched my interests perfectly – a fascinating mix of theory and current societal issues.
After looking into UWS it didn’t take me long to make the decision to accept the offer.
It was a no brainer, I’d drop out of my Finnish Uni, quit my job and pack my bags – this may sound straightforward but trust me when I say it was not.
Everything was about to change!
I felt right at home at UWS.
I found a few friends even though no one was my age – everyone was either 5 years younger or +5 years older.
I plotted through my lectures, studied hard and enjoyed everything Scotland had to offer.
I felt super supported by the Uni.
If there ever was a question or a worry, there was always someone to turn to.
The lecturers were knowledgeable, supportive and flexible.
In my final year, I really fell in love with research.
I had always been interested in migration issues and with some encouragement from my dissertation supervisor I swapped my topic last minute and decided to write about Migrants’ Access to Food Aid in the UK .
I graduated with a 1st and even won a prize for my dissertation.
Something I never saw coming.
I only found out on the day of graduation which made it all seem a bit surreal.
I was already keeping an eye out for jobs in my field that final spring.
Trying to hopelessly find somewhere that would match my interest and values.
I asked the UWS careers team for support in rewriting my CV and cover letters as I had only really done these for Finnish companies before and I didn’t want to stand out in a negative way.
I was scanning through LinkedIn, different job boards and organisation websites for hours on end and the job market was really not in my favour at the time – or that’s what it felt like – until I stumbled upon a Project Officer position at one of the organisations I had interviewed for my dissertation – the one I still work for today.
It wasn’t by accident that I saw it, but the timing couldn’t have been better.
I applied for it immediately and a week later got an email inviting me for an interview.
It was too good to be true, I though.
Turns out I was right because I didn’t get the job.
I did however get something else, something that was better than my shop job that I had started two years prior, but still not something I wanted to do long term.
I decided to trust the process because at least I was working on the third sector, the prime location for making change, which is where I wanted to be.
Two-weeks into this new job I got an email from my current boss saying there was another job if I’d be interested.
It was a research position which in my eyes was better than the job I originally applied for so without hesitation I accepted the job.
Looking back at my journey, I think it’s a real representation of trusting the process and not getting knocked down when things don’t go to plan.
I took multiple gap years after high school because I wasn’t sure what I wated to study.
Then once I had that all figured out, I didn’t get into the programmes I applied for.
I also didn’t get the job I really wanted.
But none of it mattered because at the end of the day I ended up where I was meant to be.
Without me having the courage to apply for undergrad programmes in Scotland I wouldn’t have ended up in UWS.
Without having supportive lectures and a supportive Uni community around me I wouldn’t have changed my dissertation topic which would’ve meant that I would never have met my current boss and she most likely wouldn’t have offered me a job.
It’s so hard to trust the process because in those moments you feel so low but if I’ve learned anything in my 30 years of life it’s that there’s always going to be something better around the corner.
It’s okay for dreams and plans to change.
In the past seven years, I’ve not only graduated from UWS with a 1st, but I also did finish my Finnish Uni through distance learning.
I’ve worked at the Independent Food Aid Network for nearly three years, and I’ve just completed a MSc in Political Science whilst working full time – not something I would recommend by the way.
I’m not sure what’s next for me but I am definitely thinking about developing my skills as a researcher in some form, maybe a PhD at UWS ?
I’ll just have to wait and trust the process.
Find out more about studying Social Sciences at UWS here .
Emma, BA (Hons) Social Sciences graduate

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/blog/my-studying-in-canada-story-adele-canning:
All my life I’ve loved to travel the world, I went to Lourdes and Salamanca on a pilgrimage and I camped around Poland for two weeks with scouts but I’ve never did a completely solo trip.
On January the 8th I got a flight to Canada, but little did I know how much this trip would change my life.
The past two months have been a rollercoaster of emotions, excitement, challenges, and personal growth.
This trip has made me more independent and it’s building my confident little by little.
When Centennial College in Canada I knew it was going to be different, but I don’t think I realised how different it would be.
Stepping off the plane after landing in Toronto, I was overwhelmed by a mixture of excitement and anxiety.
I have pretty bad anxiety since after covid but this trip is suppose to help with that.
It was cold and I could see snow already, but the climate I wasn’t so different.
My first days at Centennial College were filled with curiosity and the occasional homesickness.
Everything was new the people, the food, the academic culture and adjusting took time.
Centennial College was difficult to adjust to at the start, but the lectures have been patient and kind with me.
My module is entirely made up of students from different parts of the world, and in fact there is not a single Canadian person in my classes, but even though we are all from different parts of the world we are all here to learn, my classmates are all really nice.
My roommates are really nice and welcoming as well.
The student residence in the first month did a bunch of activities to make people get to know one another better.
The residence has a gym, an arcade, an theatre room and a pool table room, as well as a study room and big kitchen on every floor, even though all dorms have a kitchen.
They do classes at the gym and have a market in the lobby of the residences.
However, my favourite thing about the entire place though, is the view from my window when the sun is setting.
Beyond academics, living in Toronto has been an adventure in itself.
The city’s diversity is incredible, and I have met people from all over the world, each with a different story, I met one guy who came to Canada to escape the LA fires.
The public transportation is pretty good here; however I do miss driving sometime, but you can really travel anywhere by bus or subway.
Toronto is an amazing city with beautiful sites and the CN tower has been my favourite so far, especially at night it lights up.
Honestly, there has been snow storms and it has been very cold the last two months, being here feels like being in a movie.
Adjusting to life in a new country has not been without its difficulties.
I have never been complemented so much on my accent, however, it doesn’t mean that people always understand it.
I have felt loneliness and definitely miss my family and friends back home at times, but I came to Canada to learn more about myself and to experience a new culture.
Centennial College has been a supportive environment, with various student organizations and events that have helped get more comfortable in the new environment.
Since being in Canada I have gone to many events and plan on going to many more and as I reflect on these past two months, I realize how much I have grown.
The journey to Centennial College has been more than just an academic pursuit; it has been a journey of self-discovery, independence, and cultural appreciation.
Although there are still challenges ahead, I am eager to continue learning, exploring, and embracing every opportunity that comes my way.
Traveling to Canada and studying at Centennial College has been one of the most t amazing experiences of my life.
I look forward to the months ahead but knowing that I’m leaving soon also makes me sad.
This journey has been a once in a lifetime experience and I would encourage anyone to come here on a trip.
Blog written by Adele Canning Events Management 3 rd Year, 1 term mobility in T2 at at Centennial College | May 2024

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/blog/our-offer-holder-checklist:
Congratulations!
We're here to lend a helping hand as you take your next steps.
Here’s a quick list of tasks to check off before starting at UWS:
Make sure you’re all set up with fees & funding.
Find out everything you need to know on our website .
Thinking about coming to stay with us?
Check out your various accommodation options and apply online .
University is an exciting time in your life, and we’re here to help you make the most of it.
From keeping your mind healthy, to staying active, there are plenty opportunities to help you thrive and enjoy every moment.
Our students’ union and sports societies are the perfect places to start.
Still have questions?
Speak to one of our current students on Unibuddy to hear all about their time at UWS.
Follow us on social media and check out our other blog posts to stay in the loop with the latest stories and experiences from our students and staff.
There is a wide range of support available to ensure that you fulfil your potential, achieve your goals, and enjoy your time at UWS.
Read all about student support, including disability and wellbeing , on our website and find those all-important contact details.
In August, we’ll send you instructions on how to enrol.
It’s important to enrol as soon as possible to access all the information you need and to ensure you’re registered as a student.
Get to know your campus and classmates during our West Fest welcome activities.
Keep an eye on our website for the latest plans!
Blog written by UWS Marketing and Student Recruitment team | April 2024

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/blog/my-dementia-care-phd-journey:
Author: Connor McDonald, PhD Student, Alzheimer Scotland Centre for Policy and Practice, School of Health and Life Sciences
There is the misconception that completing a PhD is a lonely journey, however, this couldn’t be further from my experience.
My name is Connor McDonald, and I am in the final year of my PhD nearing thesis submission and will soon be preparing for my Viva.
In this blog, I would like to briefly talk about my experience as a full-time PhD student within the Alzheimer Scotland Centre for Policy and Practice in the School of Health and Life Sciences, and why I decided to do a PhD in dementia care.
I was fortunate enough to be granted the Wendy Baxter Scholarship to fund my research.
The focus of the Wendy Baxter Scholarship is to collaboratively develop an approach to optimise family care home visiting experiences with their relatives living with advanced dementia.
In particular to develop opportunities for family involvement in creative individualised activities.
It is well known that caring for a relative with dementia is both a rewarding and emotionally challenging experience.
As dementia progresses it is common that family carers experience psychological and emotional strains including anxiety, depression and increased feelings of guilt and loss, which are often exacerbated by their loved one moving to a care home.
As such, the aim of my research was to collaboratively develop a family centred approach to reminiscence.
This was a practical tool to help shape enjoyable visit activities, led by the family of care home residents who have dementia.
Using action research, I worked with family members to develop ways that they ways that they could incorporate reminiscence into their visits and determine the outcomes that matter to them.
We then co-created a booklet built on the study findings to support the delivery of reminiscence that could be used by other families who were not involved in the initial study.
This is a topic area that is very close to my heart as I am currently a carer for my Dad who was diagnosed with early onset vascular dementia around nine years ago at the age of 52.
Whilst this has undoubtedly been a challenging few years for us as a family, my Dad is still my Dad and on the whole, his personality is still as bright and at times cheeky as it always has been.
Although my Dad is still living at home, this was crucial for me to bear in mind for my own study as it is important to see past the diagnosis and see the person that still remains and place them at the forefront.
Another crucial source of support throughout my PhD has been my supervision team.
They have been instrumental in pushing me to not only grow as a researcher, but also has a person.
For example, I highlighted at the start of my PhD that my confidence was an area that I wanted to improve on as I knew that it was something that I lacked in myself and didn’t want it to reflect in my work.
My supervisors helped me to become more confident in myself by asking me to do small presentations before my supervision meetings and to send over drafts of work that were unfinished rather than delaying by aiming for a perfect draft.
Furthermore, I have since:
These presentations are testament to the support I have received from my supervisors, and continue to receive, as previously I never would’ve felt that I could do them, never mind volunteer myself.
On a personal level, my supervisors have been a crucial source of support for me as they are aware that my research area can be a bit close to home at times and I know that I could talk to any one of them if I needed to.
Prior to starting my PhD, I had read warnings that it could be a lonely journey without the same cohesive student body that was present for my Honours and Masters degrees.
However, this couldn’t be further from my own experience.
From the offset, I have had invaluable peer support as there are three of us who started our PhDs at the same time, and we quickly formed a support network.
We have an informal WhatsApp chat where we can help each through any issues we may have or to simply offer encouragement when it feels like we’ve lost our way.
This support network also extends to the centre’s student body as we are always finding ways to help each other out.
A key example of this has been our Café Working Days during which we meet up in a local Waterstones café to work, but also to socialise and have that much needed peer support.
This support also translates outside of the academic environment, as we have also met up socially whether for coffee or dinner, or go to the cinema.
Moreover, by attending events such as the Scottish Dementia Research Consortium Conference and the Alzheimer Scotland Conference, I know that there is a wide-ranging support network available to me through groups such as Alzheimer Scotland and NDCAN that I’ll draw upon throughout my study.
To briefly conclude, whilst a PhD is often thought of as a lonely journey, this has been far from my experience through the continued support from the Baxter family, my supervisors, and the wider student and staff community that have helped me to feel part of the Alzheimer Scotland Centre for Policy and Practice.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/blog/my-study-abroad-story:
Author: Fiona Finchem, North Carolina State University
Fiona visited UWS in March 2025 as part of North Carolina State University's Global Leadership Minor (GLM) programme.
In this blog, Fiona shares the highlights of her trip to Scotland, including visiting the country's largest sport and event venues.
Travelling to a new country is thrilling, but can also be intimidating.
When I first arrived in Scotland for North Carolina State University's Global Leadership Minor (GLM) program at the University of the West of Scotland (UWS), I wasn't sure what to expect.
Can I adapt to the new academic and cultural environment?
How different would it be from studying in the U.S.?
Looking back, I realize that my time at UWS was an incredibly enriching and eye-opening experience.
One of the first things I noticed about UWS was the warmth of its people.
From the moment we arrived, the staff and students welcomed us with open arms.
It wasn't just about attending lectures but about feeling at home and gaining a unique perspective on the sport, tourism, and event industries.
I also loved the town of Paisley, which has a rich history and charm that made settling in much easier.
And, of course, getting used to hearing "cheers" instead of "thank you" was an adjustment I was happy to make.
Academically, the difference between the U.S.
and the U.K.
system was immediately evident.
While American universities tend to focus more on assessment through quizzes, tests, and homework, Scottish education placed a stronger emphasis on class discussion and hands-on experience, which we gained through guest speakers and site visits.
This was a refreshing shift of pace.
It allowed me to think more critically and learn about the sport, tourism, and event industries, and how they work in the real world.
Beyond academics, one of the highlights of my experience was exploring Scotland, whether on my own or with the group.
We kicked things off with a competitive scavenger hunt around Glasgow.
Unfortunately, a pigeon pooped on my head about ten minutes in, but it was a great way to see the city.
Plus, they say that's good luck!
Every excursion deepened my appreciation for Scotland's beautiful landscapes and cultural richness, from the historic streets of Edinburgh to an awesome Snow Patrol concert at the Scottish Event Campus (SEC).
Visiting Edinburgh was a stand out moment for me.
We visited the British Council and the Edinburgh International Conference Centre (EICC), where we got a firsthand look at how global engagement and event planning shape the city.
We also went on a walking tour with a member of the Cockburn Association, who shared stories about Edinburgh’s rich history and the ongoing efforts to protect Edinburgh's built heritage, natural environment, and civic amenities.
It really opened my eyes to the challenge of balancing tourism’s economic benefits with the need to preserve the city’s unique character and support the community
One of the key parts of the course was examining the role of sports, tourism, and events in shaping communities.
We had the chance to visit various organizations and venues, including St.
Mirren Football Club, the SEC, the Emirates Arena, Celtic Park, and more.
Hearing from leaders at each site visit highlighted these industries' economic and social impacts on Scotland.
Sports, tourism, and events are powerful drivers of community development, bringing people together, creating jobs, and boosting local economies.
For instance, major event venues like the SEC and Emirates Arena play a crucial role in attracting visitors, generating revenue for local businesses, and enhancing Scotland's global reputation as a destination for world-class events.
I learned that tourism is not just about the visitors but about a whole system of organizations working together to create an experience.
From events that promote tourism to local governments ensuring infrastructure is in place, each step of the process contributes to a destination's success, and I thoroughly enjoyed what I learned in each class, field trip, and from guest speakers.
NC State's GLM is designed to educate students on the complexities of leadership in an increasingly interconnected world through interdisciplinary coursework, immersive cultural experiences, and hands-on learning.
Our time in Scotland did just that.
Our coursework and site visits provided theoretical knowledge and hands-on experiences to examine leadership models, ethics in decision-making, and the challenges of managing organizations in the sports and tourism sectors.
One of the most valuable lessons I learned was understanding the importance of ethical leadership, especially when navigating controversial issues like human rights concerns in major sporting events.
Global leadership is about more than just managing different locations or cultures - it focuses on inspiring and guiding people to align their thoughts, attitudes, and actions to work together effectively towards shared goals and a common vision.
This experience reinforced that authentic leadership requires empathy, adaptability, and a commitment to ethical decision-making.
Whether in business, sports, or community development, the most impactful leaders prioritize inclusivity, sustainability, and the well-being of the people they serve.
As I move forward in my career, I will carry these lessons with me to lead in a way that not only drives success but fosters positive change in the world around me.
Blog written by Fiona Finchem, North Carolina State University | March 2025

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/blog/how-to-make-the-most-of-an-offer-holder-day:
First of all, huge congrats on getting an offer to study at UWS!
Now that you've got that golden ticket, it's time to dive into the Offer Holder Day and see what #LifeAtUWS is all about.
Here are some tips to make sure you make the most of the day:
Before you head out, check the schedule and plan your day.
Each UWS campus has its own event, so make sure you know where you're going and what sessions you’ll be joining.
This way, you won't miss a thing!
Got questions?
Write them down in advance!
Whether it's about your course, student life, or the world-class facilities, this is your chance to get all your questions answered from the amazing staff and current students.
Dive into your future course with sample classes and interactive workshops.
You'll get a taste of the course content, teaching styles, and meet some of your future classmates and lecturers.
It's a great way to see if the course is the right fit for you.
Take a stroll around the campus and check out the facilities including the library, gym (psst students get free gym membership ), and coffee shops - definitely grab a delicious iced coffee if you need a pick-me-up!
Exploring the campus will help you get a feel for the place and see if it could be your home-from-home.
No one knows #LifeAtUWS better than our fantastic students.
Ask them about their experiences, what they love about UWS, and any tips they have for new students.
It will all come in handy if you decide to make UWS your home come September.
With so much going on, it's easy to forget details.
Use your phone's notes app to jot down important info.
This will be handy when you're making your final decisions.
After the event, take some time to go over the info you've gathered.
If you have more questions, don't hesitate to reach out to the helpful Ask Team or check out the Offer Holder support page .
Most importantly, have fun!
This is an exciting step towards the future you.
Enjoy the opportunity to learn more about UWS and picture yourself as a student here.
Follow these tips, and you'll be ready to make the most of your Offer Holder Day at UWS.
We can't wait to welcome you to the UWS family!
Blog written by UWS Marketing and Student Recruitment Team | February 2025

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/blog/national-student-money-week-top-tips-for-uws-students:
Author: Funding and Advice Team, University of the West of Scotland (UWS).
Whether you're a current student or thinking about joining UWS, our Funding and Advice Team share their top tips to help you save money!
Hey there, UWS money savers!
It's that time of year again - National Student Money Week 2025 is here, and we're all about helping you make the most of your money.
Whether you're a current student or thinking about joining UWS, we've got some tips to help you save those precious pennies.
Let's dive in!
Creating a budget might sound daunting, but it's a game-changer.
Start by listing your income (student loans, part-time job, etc.) and your expenses (rent, groceries, social activities).
Remember, a little planning goes a long way!
We’ve got you covered when it comes to budgeting and planning – check out our guides.
Eating out can quickly drain your wallet.
Instead, try cooking at home.
Not only is it cheaper, but it's also healthier.
Plan your meals for the week, make a shopping list, and stick to it.
Check out our guide on saving money when it comes to food for some delicious and budget-friendly recipes.
Being a student has its perks!
From travel to tech, many businesses offer discounts to students.
Always carry your student ID and ask if there's a student discount available.
Apps like UNiDAYS and Student Beans are great for finding the latest deals.
Living with roommates?
Share the cost of household items like cleaning supplies and groceries.
Bulk buying can save you money, and it's more eco-friendly too.
Plus, it's a great way to bond with your housemates!
UWS offers a wealth of resources to help you manage your money.
From financial advice to workshops on budgeting, make sure to take advantage!
National Student Money Week (NSMW) is the perfect opportunity to get your finances in order and develop smart money habits.
Remember, the Funding and Advice Team is here to support you every step of the way.
For more tips and personalised advice, visit the UWS Money & Debt Advice page .
Throughout NSMW 2025, we'll be hosting lots of in-person and online events to get you thinking about how you can improve your money habits.
Keep an eye out for some fun pop-up activities on campus, including pottery and clothes swap events.
You’ll soon be quids in!
Got the money saving bug?
Check out the National Student Money Week 2025 webpage where you can see a calendar of events, full of great sessions to help you survive and thrive financially.
Happy saving!
Blog written by Funding and Advice Team, UWS | March 2025

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/blog/a-day-in-the-life-of-an-applied-bioscience-and-zoology-student-at-uws:
Author: Anna Munro, Applied Bioscience and Zoology student, University of the West of Scotland (UWS).
Anna, a 3rd year Applied Bioscience and Zoology student, tells us about what a typical day looks like in the life of a student at UWS.
7am: I wake up, throwing on an outfit I’d already picked out the night before, to save me the stress in the morning.
Breakfast at the moment consists of overnight oats with dried strawberries and honey yoghurt.
It’s been a favourite for a while, but I rediscovered it the other week.
8am: It’s time to leave.
Even though my lecture doesn’t start until 10am, the drive is just over an hour so I’ve got to make sure I can make it on time and avoid traffic on the bypass.
9am: I meet up with my friends in one of the booths in the cafeteria and on our way to class we sign in using the UWS app and scanners.
10am: I arrive at my Wildlife Biology lecture taught by Dr Jamie Turner.
I use a little A5 notebook to take shorthand notes throughout as well as having the slides up on my laptop, so I don’t miss anything on the board.
Today’s lecture focused on distribution and occupancy of populations of animals worldwide.
Learning the differences between dispersion, distribution and dispersal in relation to this.
Also highlighted was the difference in a species fundamental niche versus its realised niche.
In simple terms, the fundamental niche is the total area that would hypothetically be suitable for an animal whereas the realised niche puts it into real life perspective by factoring in the obstacles an animal may face such as predators or limited resources, which mean they can’t actually access that entire suitable habitat.
11am: Around an hour into the lecture, we’re given 5 minutes to process everything we’ve learned so far, go for a bathroom break or grab a quick snack and juice downstairs at the mini café.
Typically, my go to is the ultimate brownie and a can of J2O.
The ultimate brownie has been a consistent winner for me since first year.
12pm: It’s lunchtime.
We might get off early if the lecture goes by quick and if so, we have enough time to drive down to ASDA for a quick meal deal.
As I’ve never been one to enjoy a tea or a coffee, an energy drink is a must at this point in the day.
1pm: Today's afternoon session was in the computer lab.
It was a workshop that took what we learned early in the morning and applied it to how it would be used in the field when studying animal populations within specific areas.
As the workshop came to a close, we were told that what we had learned today would be necessary for completing our first assignment for the module - a report on a chosen species and its distribution.
3pm to 4pm: It’s time to drive home.
Another hour which, if I’m lucky, I can avoid the beginnings of rush-hour traffic.
Driving tends to take it out of me, so admittedly I end up napping for around an hour when I get home.
5pm: Upon waking up (and relaxing for a bit) I open the information on how to complete the report from Aula.
My chosen species is dingoes - those Australian feral dogs - and I begin researching all the basic information giving myself a good depth of understanding.
Any papers I find on Google Scholar that I think may be useful for when it comes to writing the report I copy and paste their links into a Word document, taking notes along the way.
6pm: Dinner comes, and I put down the uni work for today.
It’s time to actually wind down.
I pick up my Nintendo Switch I got for Christmas and hop on Animal Crossing for the next hour or so, relaxing until it’s time to get ready for bed.
Blog written by Anna Munro, UWS Applied Bioscience and Zoology student | February 2025

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/blog/where-to-find-great-coffee-in-paisley:
Salt and Pepper.
Barbie and Ken.
Lennon and McCartney.
Pineapple and Pizza.
Some of the most iconic partnerships throughout history.
There is one double act we’ve forgotten to mention: 'students' and 'coffee'.
That’s right.
It’s a well-known fact that tired students are nothing without their morning caffeine fix.
‘You complete me’, as Jerry Maguire once famously said.
A phrase you’ll often hear students whispering to their oat milk latte before a 9am lecture.
So, where to get a caffeine fix in Paisley?
We’ve got you covered.
Here’s our pick of the best coffee shops when visiting our UWS Paisley Campus.
A stone’s throw from our Paisley Campus, Nomads’ is the perfect place to for a quiet breakfast, delicious lunch, or some coffee and cake.
Heck, have not have all four.
We won’t judge, not when the offering is this good.
The vibes at Nomads’ are so chilled, you may never want to leave.
But, serious voice, please do leave eventually and attend your lectures, ahem.
Right on the doorstep of our Paisley Campus, Roasters is a bustling café and a coffee connoisseur’s dream.
With the friendliest staff, Roasters serve up the tastiest food.
Seriously, check out their Instagram feed - we defy you not to drool.
Yes Sir, Roasters can boogie.
Boogie woogie.
Oh-so-pretty.
And that’s just the entrance door décor.
Wait until you get inside and try Kettle Black’s coffee and seriously tasty cakes.
Their Millionaire Shortcake should be an exhibit in Paisley Museum.
We said what we said.
Their soups are also *chef’s kiss.
Kettle Black is the perfect place to sit down, sip a Mocha and watch the world (okay, Paisley) go by.
Check out Kettle Black's Facebook .
Café 77 is brunch perfection.
Their Brioche Buns are a thing of beauty.
And don’t get us started on their Mattcha Lattes.
Oh.
My.
Days.
What won us over, however, is their Doggieccinos.
That’s right, Café 77 welcome four-legged canine friends with open arms.
They even feed them whipped cream and d-biscuits.
I mean, why are you still reading?
Strap your pooch on a leash and sprint down towards Barshaw Park immediately.
Blend is back in town, oh yeah.
After a brief hiatus, Blend Café returned to Paisley Arts Centre last year.
And we’re SO happy they’re back.
Paisley’s first independent coffee lounge, Blend Café is all about community, connection and coffee.
Partnering with The Gatehouse Coffee Roasters, their mission is to bring you the best coffee in Paisley.
Guys, we’d say mission complete.
Go visit.
Thank us later.
Blog written by UWS Digital and Marketing Team | January 2025

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/blog/how-to-look-after-your-mental-health-at-university:
University can be a challenging time.
Whether it’s challenging yourself with academic work, living on your own for the first time, making new friends or balancing a part-time job with your university work – it can be difficult to check in with yourself on top of this!
It's important to make sure you are prioritising your mental health throughout your time studying.
Here are 4 ways you can improve your wellbeing.
Remember, connections can be big or small.
Chatting with someone new for a few minutes or grabbing a coffee with a classmate.
If you feel you’re missing out on this, try spending a little more time on campus during the week.
These small interactions build up over time and will improve your overall wellbeing.
Set realistic goals .
Don't try to do everything at once.
Start small and build up over time.
Take breaks.
It's important to take time for yourself and relax.
Avoid unhealthy coping mechanisms.
Alcohol and drugs can worsen mental health problems.
Make an appointment with Student Services.
If you're struggling, don't hesitate to seek support from the range of services UWS provide.
The Wellbeing Team are always here to support you.
Find a range of resources and details of support the wellbeing team offer.
You can find details of all the services on the UWS student app!
Blog written by UWS Wellbeing Team | December 2024

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/blog/vegan-and-vegetarian:
From neighbourhood cafes to top-notch restaurants, here’s our pick of the best places for vegan and vegetarian food near our campuses.
With enough vegan and vegetarian options to shake your fist at, Food Forty Six is a hidden gem on Paisley High Street.
From salad bowls to hearty soups and tasty ciabattas, Food Forty Six is trendy with a capital ‘T’.
Specialising in breakfasts and brunches, their food is the kind that nourishes the mind, stomach and soul.
Also run, don’t walk, for their pumpkin lattes.
Swoon.
Then swoon some more.
Vegan Earth is Ayrshire’s first 100% plant-based café.
Whilst they may be gluten-free, egg-free and milk-free, their food is most definitely not taste-free.
Vegan Earth has everything to tickle a vegan’s fancy, including buddha bowls, beetroot burgers and baked sweet potatoes.
Just don’t get us started on their cakes.
Because we’ll start to drool.
And, well, that’s rude.
But when you taste their Carrot and Pistachio gâteau, you’ll know exactly what we mean.
Queue drooling.
Soz.
Whether you’re craving a cosy coffee, a hearty dinner or something to satisfy that oh-so-sweet tooth, Ronzio Hamilton have it all.
Their Vegan Stack is something to behold.
It’s another thing to taste.
And their home-baked goods are divine.
From fresh crepes to the Vegan Biscoff Millionaire bars, life sure is sweet at Ronzio in Hamilton.
Pumpernickel is a family-run café serving the most authentic vegan and vegetarian food.
Their name alone should be enough to tempt you through their doors.
If you need more convincing, look no further than their vegan sticky toffee pudding.
For the savoury connoisseurs out there, head straight for their tofu curry.
Do not pass go.
Do not collect £200.
It bursts with the most heavenly of flavours.
De-lish!
On the hunt for some tasty, indulgent plant-based food?
Look no further than London's street food markets.
There are so many to choose from.
Southbank Centre Food Market boasts 15 different types of cuisine, including Ethiopian-inspired salads and stews.
Market Hall Fulham, Kerb Camden, Old Spitalfields, Southbank Centre Food Market and Market Hall West End are also excellent shouts for vegans and veggies!

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/blog/a-week-in-the-life-of-phd-performance-student:
Author: Kennagh Spowart, PhD Performance student, University of the West of Scotland (UWS).
Kennagh, a PhD Performance student at UWS, provides a look at what typically goes in on in the life of a PhD student.
If you have come across this blog, you may either be beginning your PhD studies , or you've been considering applying, but are unsure of expectations, timelines, work/life balance etc…
Before I tell you how my week looks as a current PhD student at UWS, I want to express that no one’s research journey is the same.
We all face different challenges and will have preferences.
Just remember - what works for me might not work for you, and that is absolutely okay!
For a range of reasons, I decided to undergo my PhD on a part-time basis, which allows me to take on paid employment alongside my studies and fits better with my lifestyle.
I personally like to shake up my routine on a week-to-week basis.
However, I've set myself a target that I have found helps me keep on track - no matter what, dedicate at least twenty hours a week to work on my research.
So, let us begin!
Typically, I choose to work on-site three times a week, with the other two days working from home.
PhD students have access to all campuses and their facilities, but I mainly jump between Paisley and Ayr, as they have the best resources available to me and my research.
During my Undergraduate and Master’s courses, I preferred renting a space and working in the Library.
However, a major benefit to research students at UWS is that we have allocated private offices for study, exclusive to us.
I’m particularly a huge fan of my cosy desk set-up at the Ayr campus - by the window with beautiful naturistic views, and with my laptop provided by the University!
I tend to split my study hours evenly over the five-day work week, but I am happy as long as I meet my twenty-hour target (or more!).
As a part-time research student, I have bi-monthly chats with my supervisor to make sure I’m meeting deadlines and staying on track.
They also run fantastic seminars for research students, every two weeks.
These seminars have helped create a community for what could have been regarded as a lonely experience.
It’s great to speak with other research students, share and support each other's work and to know that we are not alone!
I'm very fortunate to be employed by the University as a student ambassador, a role which I’ve kept since my masters.
This is a super flexible position, where I can choose to take available hours for a range of different departments.
This role can allow you to work at a variety of fun events like Open Days and university taster sessions.
You can collaborate with the Social Media and Marketing team, speak with pre-applicants and new students on the UniBuddy platform and it gives you experience working in an office environment.
No week is the same, which is perfect for an individual like me, who enjoys keeping things fresh!
If you're looking for employment alongside your PhD, I would highly recommend seeking work opportunities for students at your institute.
I've found that my work supervisors are very accommodating and understanding regarding time to focus on my research.
Listen, I'm an absolute self-care queen!
If I’m working from home, I’ll put my barista skills to the test.
But if I’m on campus, I’ll pick up a delicious, caffeinated beverage from any of the on-site University cafes.
And yes, I’m not ashamed to say that I order an almond milk latte with sugar-free hazelnut syrup!
We're all individuals and the staff are lovely, who will do a great job with your coffee personalisations!
Be sure to keep yourself replenished, watered and fed whilst you’re studying.
For my lunch break, I do love a good soup or baked potato in the colder months - which in Scotland, there are many.
There are salads and sandwiches for those short-lived warmer days… ugh fine.
And the occasional chicken burger with chips, geez peace!
Alongside making sure I’m eating well throughout the day (with the occasional treat), I’ve currently been living by the old saying: “A healthy mind in a healthy body”.
In all honesty, exercise always felt like a chore to me.
However, I've found that implementing some form of activity every day into my routine has improved my mood and boosted my energy levels.
Even a quick, high-intensity Body Pump session can make a major difference!
Whether it be utilising the free gym membership for all students at UWS (including fitness classes), walking my dogs or attending my Cheerleading class (yes, PhD students are still allowed to join sports clubs & societies - Go Foxes!).
I find that dedicating a little time moving my body splits my day well and keeps me focused.
Ah, after a busy week of research, events, office work and exercise, the weekend has arrived.
If I don’t happen to meet the minimum study hour’s goal, I have set for myself in my work week, I will try to pick them up over this time.
Luckily, I so far have managed to stay consistent and find my current balance sustainable, allowing me to enjoy my weekends, which is important as a research student.
I’m a very sociable individual and love human interaction, so I like to use my free time to spend with my partner, friends and family, but a good reading session or TV binge works too!
However you like to wind down, make sure you really do wind down!
And there you have it!
I’m kept very busy, but I absolutely love the research community, the opportunities I’ve been given and fantastic facilities we have here at UWS.
I'm excited to see where my research will take me.
Perhaps you can #FindYourPlace here too, just like I have!

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/blog/free-things-to-do-around-our-campuses:
UWS has four campuses in Scotland.
Yes, four.
And you know what that means?
Well, quadruple the fun of course.
What does it not mean?
Quadruple the price.
We’re rounding up the best free things for our students to do in Paisley, Ayr, Lanarkshire and Dumfries.
Check out our recommendations.
Oh my quad.
UWS offers free (yes, free!) gym memberships to all our students and staff.
We’re talking uber modern gyms here.
Dumbbells.
Kettlebells.
Slam balls - excellent for exam stress.
Check out our new UWS Sports pages for more details on how to register for a UWS gym membership.
And I would walk 500 miles.
Well, you certainly can in Scotland.
Each of our Scottish campuses are next to the most spectacular walks and country parks.
Sitting to the south of Paisley, Gleniffer Braes Country Park offers cracking views of Ben Lomond and the Campsies.
In Dumfries, Galloway Forest Park is honestly the *chef’s kiss of forest parks.
The only confusing thing about Chatelherault Country Park in Lanarkshire is the pronunciation of its name.
Everything else is ruddy brilliant.
And the Ayrshire coastline is home to some of the most beautiful beaches in Scotland.
From Prestwick to Ayr, Saltcoats to Irvine and Troon, beaches really are your oyster in Ayr.
Every pun intended.
If running is more your thing, consider Parkrun .
A 5K social run every Saturday morning at parks up and down the country, there’s plenty to choose from around our campuses.
Lanarkshire students will love Strathclyde Parkrun.
Flat as a pancake.
Or there’s lovely Linwood Parkrun for our Paisley students.
Big up Ayr and Troon Parkruns for our Ayr campus students.
Oi oi.
And Crichton Parkrun is a must for Dumfries.
Remember, it’s completely free to take part!
A tardis on Paisley High Street, Paisley Library opened last year.
And, gosh, what a nook.
There are floors upon floors of books and more books.
Very mindful, very demure.
Very late to this trend.
It also has the most serene study spaces for you to burrow away in and doomscroll on your phone *cough, study.
Remember, it’s free to enter any public library, so no breaking the bank with this activity.
Glasgow is one of the best cities in the UK for street art.
But Paisley be like - hold my beer.
From ceramic lions and peacocks to John Lennon and Paolo Nutini (quite the dinner party), the mural trail is an incredible showcase of Paisley’s local artistic community.
Walking the mural trail is a great way to get to know Paisley better.
Why not make a day of it?
There’s many a cafe, bar and restaurant on the trail to, ahem, refuel as you go…

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/blog/the-travelling-student:
UWS PhD student, Kennagh Spowart, shares her experiences, hints and tips for how to go about it!
Becoming a university student can be both an exciting and challenging time.
With all the buzz throughout the academic year from essays to coursework, deadlines and exams, sometimes it’s good just to have a change of pace… or scenery!
I’ve been a student for many years and throughout my studies, I have travelled all over the world, both to progress my professional life and for leisure.
If you’re interested in travelling as a student, here are some experiences, hints and tips on how to go about it!
Did you know that there is study abroad opportunities across a variety of programmes at UWS, for both Undergraduate and Postgraduate students?
If you speak with your Programme Leader or contact the Student Hub team , they should assist in what study abroad options are available for you.
I was very fortunate to have studied in the USA, back during my undergraduate degree for a term.
An experience that, although was almost a decade ago, remains as one of the most memorable times in my life!
Through the study abroad programme at UWS, I not only got to attend a real American college - and yes, it’s just like the movies - and travel around the East coast, I also got to meet an array of other international students and made lifelong friendships through this.
All the classes and credits that I sat there were simply transferred towards my degree here, meaning I didn’t have to take on any extra modules at home.
In my Masters, I also had the opportunity to study at a school in France for a term.
However, I received another offer, which I will discuss later in this blog!
If you are wishing to participate in a term or year abroad, I would highly recommend getting in touch as early as possible as it can be a lengthy process, but certainly worth it!
If there is a time of year to take advantage of academic freedom, it is no doubt the summer.
Of course, this may not be relevant to some degrees, but for most students, summer is when you are free to do as you wish.
So, why not try to find some work abroad, to earn some cash, gain some experience, meet people from all over the world and explore new places?
As I studied performance for my undergrad and wished for more paid stage experience, I worked for holiday firms over my summers as part of the entertainment team.
I not only got to sing and dance away, but I also got to live in countries like France, Spain and Cyprus, and travel around on my days off.
UK Holiday firms always have temporary summer roles available.
If entertainment isn't for you, you could look at becoming a holiday rep, hospitality staff or travel guide instead.
Another popular option for working abroad in the summer is incentives like Camp America or Canada, where you can apply as a camp counsellor, specialised leader, grounds keeping or admin staff.
Another avenue to investigate, and will help more with career progression, are industry internships.
Internships can sometimes be a little trickier financially and require more planning.
However, they'll provide excellent hands-on work experience in your field and will have a positive impact on your resume.
During my Masters, I had received the offer to undergo a summer internship with a theatre company in Japan, which enhanced my skills in performance, collaboration and production.
I chose this over my offer to study abroad in France through the UWS programme as I wished for work experience, to collaborate with other artists… and to go to Japan, of course!
If you’re looking for a summer internship, there are many search engines online that advertise available positions.
Or speak with one the allocated Careers Advisors at UWS .
Careers Advisors at UWS are for current students and alumni within five years of graduating.
Who’s to say that the only way you can travel as a student is for study or work?
No way!
Outside our summers, students have time off over the winter and spring too.
These are great times to book that week abroad in Greece or Italy.
However, there are ways to go on a weekend break, even during your studies!
Of course, be sensible if you do decide to go away for a weekend during the term - don’t be going right before a huge assignment due on the Monday morning!
But it’s certainly not out of your reach.
During my studies at UWS, I’ve done various overnight stays, in places like Paris, Prague, Berlin, Brussels, London, York, Aviemore and Skye.
I even got to stay overnight in Tokyo, Kyoto and Nara during my internship in Japan, and New York, Baltimore and Washington whilst studying in America!
I’m a big budget traveller, especially when it comes to weekend breaks and will often opt for the cheapest form of travel available to me.
I’m not ashamed to say that I’ve done night buses to save the pennies but of course, sometimes flights are an absolute necessity for getting abroad, especially in a short amount of time.
I’ve found the best weekend flight deals are in November and between January to March, before going into peak Spring/Summer season.
If you're  lucky to have completed all your coursework and exams in May, early June also tends to have good summer deals, before the schools finish for their Summer break, later in the month!
So, there you have it!
Travelling as a student can be enriching, beneficial… and a lot of fun!
Feel free to get in touch with me on UniBuddy for further advice on travelling as a student.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/blog/coming-out-is-not-a-group-project-and-thats-okay:
Author: Daniel Muravsky, PhD, SFHEA, CMBE, Senior Lecturer in Marketing, UWS
LGBTQ+ History Month takes place from the 1st to the 28th of February 2025 and aims to increase the visibility of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people.
Check out our blog written by Daniel Muravsky, Senior Lecturer in Marketing at UWS.
Daniel talks about inclusivity, fostering a safe environment for students at university and advice for what to do if you're put on the spot.
University is often described as a place where you can 'discover yourself', which is fantastic - until people start assuming they should be part of that discovery process.
Maybe it’s a well-meaning professor who, in the middle of a lecture on market segmentation based on family structures, suddenly turns to a student and says, “And of course, some families have two dads, right?” The room goes quiet, eyes turn, and suddenly that student - who might not be out - is involuntarily made the face of same-sex relationships in higher education.
Because here’s the thing: coming out is a personal choice, not a group assignment.
And in the rush to be inclusive, people sometimes forget that inclusivity should feel safe - not like a spotlight.
Just because a university is welcoming does not mean every LGBTQ+ student wants to - or should feel pressured to - announce their identity.
Some students arrive fully out and ready to lead every Pride event on campus.
Others are still figuring things out.
Some simply prefer to keep their personal life, well, personal.
All are valid.
But inclusivity isn’t just about celebrating those who are vocal and visible - it’s also about creating an environment where privacy is respected.
No one should feel like they have to 'confirm' their gender identity or sexuality just because someone else wants to feel like a good ally.
And making assumptions?
That can be just as isolating as direct outing.
If you wouldn’t randomly ask a classmate to declare their religious or political beliefs mid-lecture, why assume their sexuality or gender identity is up for discussion?
The best way to support LGBTQ+ students is not by putting them on the spot.
It’s by creating a space where no one needs to come out just to feel accepted.
This can be as simple as:
If you find yourself in a situation where someone unintentionally (or intentionally) outs you or makes you uncomfortable, here’s how you can handle it:
At its core, LGBTQ+ History Month isn’t just about celebrating those who are loud and proud - it’s also about respecting those who aren’t.
Some people want their door wide open.
Others keep it slightly ajar.
And some prefer it closed altogether.
At university, your identity is yours - not a debate, not a lecture topic, and definitely not anyone else’s business unless you choose to share it.
And if there’s one lesson worth learning this LGBTQ+ History Month, it’s this:
True inclusivity isn’t about making people come out.
It’s about making sure they don’t have to - unless they want to.
Blog written by Daniel Muravsky, PhD, SFHEA, CMBE, Senior Lecturer in Marketing, UWS | February 2025

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/blog/how-to-make-the-most-of-your-time-at-uws:
Contrary to popular belief, university is a whole lot more than books, exams and revision.
Building connections and going on new adventures is a huge part of the university experience.
However, meeting new people and trying new things can be, well, daunting.
But fear not.
We’ve got some great ideas to kickstart your social life and make the most of your time at UWS.
The best thing about Welcome Week?
Pretty much everybody is in the same boat.
No, really.
Look around.
We guarantee most folk attending Welcome Week will be navigating the choppy waters of crippling nervous anxiety.
Welcome Week, then, is the perfect opportunity to do lots of meeting and greeting.
Why?
Because there’s no judgement.
Everybody there wants to meet new people, find their tribe.
So, dive in and get involved in the different events and activities.
It really is the best way to kickstart your #LifeAtUWS.
Check out our video from last year's Welcome Week (Vimeo) .
With a whole host of clubs and societies to choose from at UWS, you'll quickly find people with similar interests.
Beyond the social aspect, being part of a club and society can seriously enhance your employability.
We’re talking Leadership skills.
Communication.
Project Management Collaboration.
Biceps.
(Okay, that last one only applies to UWS Sport societies).
Becoming a member of a UWS club or society can build your professional network.
It can also lead to the creation of some very wholesome and life-long friendships.
Check out the UWS Student Union and UWS Sport pages for more details on how to join a UWS club or society.
In our humble opinion, volunteering is one of the most rewarding university experiences.
Well, first, it’s a great opportunity to meet new people.
Secondly, volunteering in and around our campuses means you can learn more about the issues impacting our local communities.
And as a volunteer, you can help drive positive change in the local area.
How cool is that?
You’ll also develop some impressive skills that will undoubtedly help you after you graduate.
Discover more about volunteering at UWS on the UWS Student Union page.
University can be stressful.
Deadlines.
Exams.
Grades.
Listen, it’s a lot.
To ensure you have the most positive university experience, it’s important to look beyond your studies and find something that fills your proverbial cup.
If culture is your bag, our campuses all have thriving live music and arts scenes.
If fitness brings you joy, check out UWS Sport .
Our gyms are free for UWS students.
Our campuses are also home to the most scenic beaches and country parks.
A brisk walk along the shores can be the perfect tonic to kickstart your day.
There’s so much to do - get pouring!

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/blog/how-a-phd-can-benefit-you:
UWS student, Kennagh Spowart, shares her experience on how studying for a PhD can benefit your future and career.
There are many reasons an individual may wish to undergo PhD study: their passion for research, their desire to become an expert within their field or simply the drive for a challenge, to name a few.
But of course, a PhD journey is certainly no easy feat and those considering taking on this level of study should think about how it will benefit their future and careers.
So, grab yourself a cup of tea, prop your feet up and let’s discuss where your PhD can take you!
A PhD will no doubt make you stand out in a job application or interview!
With around only two percent of the UK holding a PhD degree, this will allow you to apply for higher positions within your field and perhaps could be the deciding factor amongst employers, especially within competitive industries.
Of course, not all positions will require a high-level degree, so I advise you to investigate jobs that interest you and to research their requirements and desirable criteria before taking on a PhD!
One of the main reasons that I decided to undergo a PhD, and I believe a lot of others will decide this as well, is to teach at university-level and to work within research and academia in my field.
Later in my studies, I will be met with opportunities to teach alongside completing my PhD, to gain more experience and insight into education at this level.
I find a lot of fulfilment in teaching having previously worked as a music educator in schools and communities, and as a musical theatre and dance coach with clubs and councils, however, whilst I found teaching younger age groups very rewarding, I knew that I wanted the challenge to educate adults who wish to become experts in the arts and to continue growing my own knowledge.
Undergoing a PhD and taking on the teaching opportunities that arise later will absolutely help in becoming a lecturer in higher education.
Studying a PhD will open opportunities to network with other PhD students, researchers and experts amongst your field, which can ignite new research ideas and collaborations.
You’ll be attending conferences and events, getting to hear about other work and get the opportunity to present your own research.
Engaging with other scholar’s is a massive benefit of the journey and who knows, perhaps you’ll make some long-lasting friendships and work with someone you’ve admired for a long time!
Obtaining a PhD is a fantastic achievement, both personally and professionally, displaying a multitude of skills and qualities in an individual, and those who undergo such a task should absolutely be proud of themselves.
Whether it's to get that dream job, become a university lecturer, work in research or to collaborate with other experts within the field, a PhD will open new and exciting opportunities for many early academics and your work and expertise will forever be part of your field.
Thinking of studying for a PhD at UWS?
Take a look at what subject areas UWS specialise in and a step-by-step guide on how to apply .
Check out Kennagh's video where she shares her journey from college to UWS, where she studied her Undergraduate, Master's and now PhD.
Blog written by Kennagh Spowart, UWS PhD student | February 2025

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/blog/best-live-music-venues-near-our-campuses:
Live music lovers unite!
Our campuses are a mere hop, skip and a jump away from some of the most exciting live music venues.
From stadiums to ballrooms, there’s something for every music fan at UWS.
Check out our recommendations of the best places to enjoy live music in and around our campuses.
The Bungalow is an independent live music venue in the heart of Paisley Town Centre.
Based in Shuttle Street, The Bungalow has supported big names early in their careers including Paolo Nutini, Jerry Rafferty and Frightened Rabbit.
Check out what’s on at The Bungalow's Facebook page .
Paisley Arts Centre is one of Scotland's most exciting venues for comedy, live music and theatre.
Housed in the Old Laigh Kirk, the centre has reopened following a spectacular refurbishment.
Check out their website for a full programme of upcoming events .
Venue38 is Ayr's largest music and events space.
A platform for grassroots music, Venue38 hosts all types of live music from club nights to rock music.
They've also just been named 'Entertainment Venue of the Year 2024/25' at the Scottish Prestige Awards.
Check out what events are happening at Venue38 .
As the UK’s first UNESCO City of Music, Glasgow is home to some of the world’s most iconic live music venues.
And nowhere is more iconic than the neon lights of the Barrowland Ballroom in the city’s east end.
Legendary bands have played here, including Oasis, David Bowie and Metallica.
It's a music bucket list item that you absolutely must tick.
Gie it laldy.
The OVO Hydro is the largest entertainment venue in Scotland.
Since opening in 2013, it's hosted some of the biggest names in music, including Taylor Swift, The Killers and Billie Eilish.
Located in trendy Finnieston, there's many a bar and restaurant to dine in before heading to your gig.
Find out what’s on at OVO Hydro’s website .

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/blog/why-uws-s-graduate-apprenticeship-is-so-different:
Author: Graduate Apprenticeship Team, University of the West of Scotland (UWS).
Hey there, future trailblazers!
If you’re here, chances are you’re curious about the Graduate Apprenticeship (GA) programme at the University of the West of Scotland (UWS).
Maybe you’ve heard whispers about how it’s different - like, really different - from the usual university experience.
Well, guess what?
Those whispers are spot-on.
But don’t just take our word for it.
Let’s dive into some real stories from UWS GA students who are living, breathing, and thriving in this unique setup.
Spoiler alert: it’s not your average 9-to-5 lecture grind.
First up, meet Julia, a GA student who’s absolutely smashing it at North Ayrshire Council while earning her degree.
Julia chose the GA route because she wanted real-world experience, not just classroom theory.
And her employer, Laura Neill, Senior Manager for Employability & Skills, could not agree more:
Julia’s story is a perfect example of how UWS’s GA programme does not just prepare you for the workforce - you’re already in it.
You’re contributing to real projects, making decisions, and seeing the impact of your work.
It’s not just about passing exams, it’s about making a difference.
Next, let’s talk about Shona McCrea, a Civil Engineering GA student who’s working on the massive £80m Clyde road bridge project.
Shona’s balancing hands-on site work with academic theory, and she’s loving every minute of it.
Shona explains...
Imagine this: one day, she’s out on-site, getting her hands dirty and learning the ropes from industry pros.
The next, she’s diving into the academic side of things, understanding the theory behind what she’s doing.
It’s the ultimate balance of practical and theoretical learning.
Shona’s story sums up what makes UWS’s GA programme so unique: you get the best of both worlds .
You’re not just stuck in a lecture hall or thrown into the deep end at work.
You’re supported every step of the way, gaining the skills and knowledge you need to excel.
To find out more about our Graduate Apprenticeships, get in touch with our dedicated team .

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/blog/16-days-of-action:
Please be advised this blogpost contains content that some readers may find upsetting.
16 Days of Action (or Activism) Against Gender-based Violence is a global campaign run by the UN Women organisation.
The campaign started in 1991 by activists at the inauguration for the Woman’s Global Leadership Institute.
It aims to raise awareness and eliminate gender-based violence around the world.
The campaign started on 25th November 2024, which is International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women (aka White Ribbon Day) and concluded on 10th December, which is International Human Rights Day.
The theme for 16 Days 2024 was #NoExcuse for gender-based violence.
The UN defines gender-based violence as follows:
Gender-based violence can lead to:
The National Police Chiefs’ Council report from July 2024 gives the following statistics for violence against women and girls:
White Ribbon Day give the following statistics on their website:
Be an ally - challenge harmful behaviours and attitudes that affect the lives of women and girls.
This will help to create safer and more equal spaces for everyone.
Blog written by Euan Johnstone, UWS IT Desktop Analyst and EDI Champion, UWS Paisley Campus | November 2024

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/blog/uws-library-celebrates-lgbtqplus-history-month:
Author: Heather Hudson, University of the West of Scotland (UWS) Library.
Check out our blog written by Heather Hudson, who works in the UWS Library.
Heather provides a look at how UWS Library is celebrating LGBTQ+ History Month.
Throughout February, UWS staff and students will be celebrating LGBTQ+ History Month.
This is a time to commemorate the queer people, communities, and activists who came before us, shaping the world we live in today.
Over the years, queerness has been painted as inherently disruptive, rebellious, and even dangerous to society.
We can still see examples of this today, in the way that issues of gender and sexuality are weaponised in politics and the media, for the purpose of furthering harmful agendas, profiting from fear and prejudice.
When some of the most vocal people in our culture struggle to reconcile the existence of queer people, you could be fooled into thinking that we are something very new, even alien.
Ridiculous as this sounds, this is a very compelling and dangerous line of thought for those who don’t know or understand their history.
The reality is that we have always been here.
Queer people have always contributed to our culture, living and loving throughout history, but our stories have not always been easy to find.
Through the UWS Library , staff and students have access to hundreds of LGBTQ+ titles and materials through our on-site libraries and our online databases.
These materials cover multiple perspectives and experiences, through fiction, research, and much more.
The collection covers many decades and schools of thought, on topics of gender, sexuality, history, identity, and beyond.
For LGBT History Month, I would like to highlight two titles which are short, sweet, and accessible.
The first is “A Little Gay History: Desire and Diversity Across the World,” by R.
B.
Parkinson .
This tiny book covers forty artifacts held in the British Museum in London, relating to queer histories from across the world, from ancient archaeology to modern art, acting as a stitched and bound museum exhibition.
As the title suggests, the collection is predominantly concerned with gay and bisexual men – however, the book does also feature sapphic artifacts, and objects concerned with gender non-conformity and transness.
The collection offers a truly global view of queerness throughout history, encouraging us to question hetero and cis-normative preconceptions about the past, ultimately asking “How easily can we recognise love in history?”
The second title is “The Queens' English: the LGBTQIA+ dictionary of lingo and colloquial phrases,” by Chloe O.
Davis .
This colourful illustrated dictionary is a guide to both slang and academic queer theory terms, demystifying and decoding what sometimes feels like a totally separate language.
The Queen’s English, whilst focusing on North American terms, recognises that the genesis of queer terminology is global, crediting the cultures which created the terms, and explaining their etymology in a concise, straightforward way.
In collecting this vast breadth language together in one place, this book offers “documentation of [queer] lives, experiences, and the languages we have chosen, created, and even reclaimed.”
To explore the UWS Library’s catalogue of queer material further, please visit our LGBT+ Lib Guide.
Blog written by Heather Hudson, UWS Library | February 2025

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/blog/make-the-most-of-a-uws-undergraduate-open-day:
Open Days are the perfect opportunity to find out more about the courses and universities you are thinking about applying to.
After all, it’s a massive decision and you want to make sure you get it right!
Our UWS Open Days not only give you the chance to find out more about our courses, but also allow you to explore our campuses, experience our state-of-the-art facilities, and discover what your #LifeAtUWS could look like.
Here are our top tips to help you get the most out of our Open Days!
To get the most out of our Open Days, do some prep in advance so you don’t miss a thing!
Welcome!
You’ve booked your place, done some prep, and made it to the event – it’s time to explore!
Ready to find your place at UWS?
We can’t wait to welcome you to UWS!
Blog written by UWS Marketing and Student Recruitment Team | January 2025

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/blog/sustainability-its-more-than-just-the-environment:
Author: Careers Service Team, University of the West of Scotland (UWS).
When we talk about Sustainability, it's easy to think it's all about the environment and hitting those net zero targets.
However, there's so much more to it.
Sustainability is built on three pillars: environmental, social, and economic conditions.
This means it's not just about saving the planet, but also about reducing poverty, increasing gender equality, and improving health.
Just take a look at the United Nations (UN) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) for a full picture.
These 17 goals provide a framework for addressing the world's most pressing challenges, from climate action to quality education.
Now, you might be thinking, "I don't have 'Sustainability' or 'Environment' in my degree title, so I'm out of the game." Not true.
Green and sustainable projects need a wide range of skills.
We're talking accountants, planners, project managers, analysts, policy officers, teachers, finance experts, and graduates from all disciplines.
Whatever your background, there's a way for you to contribute to Sustainability.
If you're keen to work for an employer that truly acts sustainably, here are our five tips to check their sustainability credentials:
Remember, Sustainability is a broad and inclusive field.
Whatever your skills or background, you can contribute to a sustainable future.
Current UWS students can find out more by visiting the Sustainability and Your Career page on the Careers Service website.
Blog written by UWS Careers Service | March 2025

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/blog/runs-you-can-take-part-in-near-our-campuses:
Young hearts, run free.
Our Paisley students don’t have far to look for a local race.
The Paisley 10K route passes by our campus and is perfect for all runners of all abilities.
Whether you’re a novice or an experienced runner with enough carbon-plate shoes to fill, well, a shoe shop, the Paisley 10K is not to be missed.
Held in Glasgow every October, the Great Scottish Run offers you the chance to run a 10K or Half Marathon.
The race brings Glaswegians out in their droves to cheer squad the runners.
The USP of this event?
Participants run over the Kingston Bridge, taking you across the river to the south of Glasgow.
Don’t forget your passport!
UWS Lanarkshire students should check out the Newton 10K.
Hosted by Newton Road Runners , the race is an an out-and-back route along the Clyde Walkway path.
There's huge PB potential, especially as it's a super flat course.
Okay, there’s a ‘small’ incline as you leave the Clyde Path.
And a couple more after that.
But remember - hills pay those bills!
Runners will love this brisk, evening run along the Ayrshire coast.
Held in May every year, the Troon 10K is fast and flat - the perfect race for our UWS Ayr students.
And with lots of local chip shops nearby, you can reward your efforts with a chippy dinner at the conclusion of the run.
Remember, the bigger the race - the bigger the chippy.
That’s a saying.
Definitely.
Ahem.
Held within the UK’s largest onshore wind farm, Run the Blades is a unique 3-day trail running festival.
There are three distances to challenge you: a 10K, Half Marathon & 50K Ultra Marathon.
Just a 20-minute drive from Glasgow, all finishers are rewarded with the famous ‘spinny’ medal.
It’s an event not to be missed!
The lovely chaps at Dumfries Harriers host the Doonhamer 10K , held in August every year.
This 10K race starts and finishes in the beautiful Dock Park, beside the River Nith in Dumfries.
It traces the pathways alongside the river, meaning aesthetically minded runners are in for a treat!
Truthfully, we’ve only scratched the surface with runs that are near our campuses.
There are literally hundreds of road and trail races in Scotland, all of which are worth checking out.
If you want to learn more about running and other ways you can keep fit on our campuses, check out UWS Sport .
Blog written by UWS Digital and Marketing team | January 2025

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/blog/staying-fit-and-healthy-whilst-studying-at-uws:
University can be a busy old time.
Attending lectures.
Meeting deadlines.
Studying for exams and pub quizzes.
It can be a precarious juggling act, with many a plate spinning.
Often, your health is pushed far down the priority list when life gets busy.
So, how do we ensure that we stay well whilst at university?
We’re sharing our top tips on how to look after your fitness and health as a UWS student.
Listen, we get it.
You’ve had a long day at lectures.
Your energy levels are depleted.
And you want fed, like, yesterday.
However, the best thing you can do for yourself (and your bank balance) is to steer clear of junk food as much as possible.
Why not batch cook?
Do a big food shop at the weekend to stock up on fresh fruit and vegetables.
Then, dedicate a couple of hours on a Sunday to cooking batches of nutritious food.
We’re talking overnight oats, soups, chilis, curries, pastas.
And, voila!
Your breakfasts, lunches and dinners are organised for the week ahead.
Yaldy.
From competitive teams to on-campus gyms, UWS Sport has everything you need to get active.
Their fitness classes are brilliant at helping to maintain your fitness.
Remember, UWS Sport is free for all UWS students.
Walking is also another effective way to stay fit and healthy.
Consider cycling or walking to your classes, where possible.
A walk to campus every day can massively increase your step count, without you even having to think about it.
Switching off your screens for a couple of hours each day is beneficial for your wellbeing.
Instead of doomsday scrolling on your phone, get outdoors.
Read a book.
Cook.
Heck, be bored.
Yes, honestly.
Boredom is an immensely underrated pastime in today's busy, technology-focused world.
Unplugging your devices will work wonders for your mental health and wellbeing.
There’s no negotiation when it comes to sleep and wellbeing.
The quality of our sleep affects everything, from our appetite to our mood to our immune systems.
Prioritise your shuteye.
Aim for around eight to nine hours of sleep every night.
Go to bed and wake up around the same time every day, as much as possible.
Need support during your time at UWS?
Our Student Hub can support with any questions you may have during your student journey.
There’s a Student Hub on every campus.
There’s also lots of information and guidance on our Student Hub .
You’re not alone at UWS.
Our teams are here to make sure you have a positive experience at our University!

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/blog/holocaust-memorial-day:
Holocaust Memorial Day (HMD) 2025 marks the 80th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz-Birkenau, the largest Nazi concentration camp complex, and the 30th anniversary of the genocide in Bosnia.
On 27th January in 1945, the Red Army arrived at Auschwitz.
Its horrors shocked even those battle-hardened troops, many of them veterans of Stalingrad.
Auschwitz was the darkest moment of the 20th century, perhaps of world history.
It was the epitome of the Nazi Holocaust, which involved the state organised murder of 6 million Jews, over 1 million Roma, and mass atrocities towards a further 7 million civilians.
The Holocaust evokes for most people the ultimate in inhumanity, hence the outrage and revulsion towards Holocaust distorters, deniers and modern-day fascists.
They insult the memory of survivors and other eyewitnesses who are the spokespersons of those millions without voice, who collectively tell us a story of systematic and ongoing brutality.
The Holocaust must be remembered.
Firstly, the Holocaust demonstrates how genocide was committed as a “normal” routine.
Holocaust scholar Hannah Arendt referred to it as the ‘banality of evil’, planned and carried out by ordinary people.
Secondly, the Holocaust demonstrates how a technologically advanced country used its scientific and industrial innovations for the mass extermination of people.
Historian and author Zygmunt Baumann argues that the decisive factor that made the mass murders possible was not only Nazi racial policy per se but this allied to modernity itself.
And, these two points were cemented by the SS, the army, the industrialists, and the civil servants planning the Holocaust at Wannsee in January 1942; the bureaucratised and efficient train system to transport Jews to the death camps; huge research and development into efficient gas for the ovens; the county’s best engineering firms competing for the contract to build the most efficient crematoria; ‘healthy’ Jews not being exterminated immediately but worked to death as slave labour.
This is one of the most frightening bits of the event: the planning and execution of the Holocaust resembled normal industrial activity.
As one camp commander of Auschwitz commented it was ‘murder by assembly line’.
Although the Jews and Roma were the main targets of the genocide, it must be recognised not only as a part of Jewish history but as a genocidal crime against all humanity.
The key ideological driver was antisemitic racism.
Keeping the memory of the Holocaust alive will not by itself stop the rise of fascism in the 21st century.
However, it does make modern-day Nazis’ job harder.
They know that the revulsion of most people to the events in Europe in the 1940s makes it more difficult for them to win support.
Theodor Adorno, the renowned German academic argued that "the main aim of education is to ensure that Auschwitz cannot happen again".
Remembering the Holocaust and commemorating Holocaust Memorial Day, perhaps particularly in schools, can contribute to marginalising them.
Unlike in England, where since 1991 the Holocaust has been a compulsory part of the history curriculum for Key Stage 3 in English secondary schools for pupils aged between 11 and 14 years, the Holocaust is not mandatory in the Scottish 3 to 18 curriculum, Curriculum for Excellence.
Holocaust Education relies on Head Teachers or Directors of Education who are committed to TLH in their schools, and to teachers of history and other subject areas who choose to teach it.
That is why at UWS we launched the Vision Schools Scotland network.
Established in 2017, it's a partnership between the School of Education and Social Sciences and the Holocaust Educational Trust .
Funded by the Scottish Government, the British Government and some charities, its aims are to promote excellence in Holocaust teaching by:
The Vision Schools Scotland network continues to expand and support some 70 secondary schools in all parts of Scotland, recently expanding into Aberdeen and Aberdeenshire.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/blog/uws-retro-games-room:
Step back in time and enjoy a bit of gaming history!
At University of the West of Scotland, we’ve been working on something special within the BSc (Hons) Computer Games Development course, a retro games room designed to boost student experience, wellbeing, and help build a real sense of community on campus.
As part of my time on the course, I’ve had the chance to get involved in loads of different activities, and in October 2024, we added this fantastic new space to the list.
The UWS Retro Games Room is somewhere you can step back in time and enjoy a bit of gaming history.
With classic consoles like the GameCube, Nintendo DS, PlayStation 1, and even the ZX Spectrum 48K, it’s a brilliant way to experience the games that helped shape the industry while having fun with friends.
Since it opened, the retro games room has quickly become one of the most popular places with fellow students.
It’s not just a spot to play games, it’s somewhere to chill out, meet new people, and chat about our favourite titles.
Packed with pop culture memorabilia and gaming décor, it has a laid-back, welcoming vibe that really appeals to everyone.
Whether you’re a hardcore gamer, a casual player, or just someone who loves the retro aesthetic, it’s a great place to take a break from your studies.
Plus, it’s open on weekdays whenever the campus is, so it’s always there when you need to unwind.
The room isn’t only about picking up a controller and playing for a few hours (though you’re more than welcome to do that too!).
It’s also become a brilliant hub for us to share ideas, swap gaming stories, and even work on course projects together.
Recently, there’s been loads of excitement about hosting tournaments for fan favourites like Smash Brothers, Guitar Hero, and Tekken.
People have also been suggesting ideas for movie nights, karaoke sessions, and tabletop board game evenings — all aimed at creating fun, social opportunities where we can connect, relax, and build friendships.
One of the things I love about the retro games room is its look and feel.
From the cool lighting to walls covered in game posters and themed decorations, it’s a space that feels both nostalgic and fresh at the same time.
And thanks to ongoing donations from students and lecturers, the collection of games and consoles keeps growing, which means future students on the course will get to enjoy an even bigger and better experience.
Blog written by Christopher Abraham, 2nd Year Computer Games Development student

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/research/academic-integrity-ethics:
University of the West of Scotland is committed to promoting and upholding the highest quality academic and ethical standards in all scientific research activities.
Governance and integrity are essential to ensure the rights of research participants are safeguarded.
The University has developed research governance and ethics procedures which recognise the importance of addressing ethical matters (including publication ethics, general principles of data confidentiality and access), while supporting the achievement of its collective research objectives.
Refer to our Policies, Procedures and Guidance pages for further information on the institution's regulations.
Academic Integrity at the University of the West of Scotland (UWS) is overseen by the Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Research and Innovation), Professor Robert MacIntosh (Email: Robert.MacIntosh@uws.ac.uk ).
The administrative lead for anyone wanting more information on matters of integrity is the Head of Research, Helen Kennedy (Email integrity@uws.ac.uk ) and queries should be directed to Helen in the first instance.
UWS adheres to a number of external concordats to ensure an environment of research excellence, including:
The University expects the highest standards in the conduct of all research undertaken in its name and on its premises using its facilities.
This includes research undertaken by staff, students, honorary, visiting or emeritus staff, associates, contractors and consultants.
Specific policies, procedures and guidelines related to research integrity are available on the Policies, Procedures and Guidance pages on this website.
The University is a signatory to the UK Concordat to support research integrity (2019) and is committed to its five core principles: honesty, rigour, transparency and open communication, care and respect, and accountability.
In line with the Concordat to support Research Integrity , the University presents a short annual statement on research integrity and misconduct to its governing body.
Statements from previous years are found below.
The Annual Statement on Research Integrity forms part of the University’s commitment to outline the actions and initiatives to sustain and enhance the integrity of the University’s research.
This statement has been reviewed by the University Academic Integrity and Ethics Committee and approved by the Court of the University of the West of Scotland.
Statement on Research Integrity for academic year 2023-2024 (PDF)
Statement on Research INtegrity for Academic Year 2022-23 (pdf)
Statement on Research Integrity for Academic Year 2021-22 (pdf)
Statement on Research Integrity for Academic Year 2020-21 (pdf)
The following Academic Freedom Statament provides clarity and guidance on the boundaries within which UWS students and academic colleagues may operate without fear of censorship, discimination or repression.
Following the UNESCO’s Recommendation concerning the Status of Higher-Education Teaching Personnel (1997) , UWS students and colleagues are free within the law to:
and do any or all of these without fear of institutional censorship, discrimination or repression.
We exercise the academic freedom in line with our Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Guidelines as well as Dignity and Respect at Work Guidelines and the UWS Code of Research Practice and Research Ethics by recognising that we:
Approved by Senate 26th March 2025
UWS has signed up to the QAA Academic Integrity Charter.
The Charter provides the baseline position for UWS to continue to develop our own high standards and outstanding quality procedures and practices to ensure every student’s qualification is genuine, verifiable and respected
The Data Protection Code of Practice is in place to make sure everyone, staff and students understands the way in which data protection applies to their roles within the University.
It also makes sure we meet the requirements set out in Article 24(2) of the GDPR, which requires the University, as a data controller, to have in place an appropriate data protection policy to make sure we meet our obligations under the legislation.
It also applies to any third parties who process data on behalf of UWS.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/research/research-festival:
The UWS Research Festival week takes place annually and consists of an exciting mix of events hosted by UWS Researchers.
This includes a range of workshops, webinars, symposia and panel discussions.
Each year has its own theme and showcases research from across UWS.
The UWS Research Festival is open to anyone interested to find out more about our exciting research.
Research Festival 2025
Research Festival 2024

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/business/knowledge-expertise/knowledge-transfer-partnerships:
UWS is the first Scottish University to have a dedicated KTP Centre
Innovate UK Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs) bring together forward-thinking businesses and organisations, academics, and graduates to solve complex innovation challenges which help our economy, society, and environment.
KTPs support talented individuals into high-value employment, enrich academic institutions, and fuel the success and profitability of UK businesses.
Each collaboration is a three-way partnership between a business or organisation with an innovative idea or challenge; a UK knowledge base with the expertise to deliver the innovation or solve the challenge; and a graduate who will drive the project forward to delivery.
This approach has proven highly successful in helping UK businesses and organisations innovate for growth since 1975.
83% of businesses engaged with KTP have reported increases in productivity, profitability, employment, or turnover.
Search for KTP Associate vacancies at UWS .
Keep up to date with the latest UWS KTP newsletter here!
UWS has a proud and successful track record of working with businesses of all sizes in grant-funded partnership projects – setting a few records along the way!
KTPs aim to deliver significant increased profitability for business partners as a direct result of the partnership through improved quality and operations.
Interested in learning more about KTPs at UWS?
Get in touch with the KTP Centre at ktp@uws.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/research/impacts/care-workers-pandemic-experiences:
Report highlights need for sectoral change
Scotland’s care sector needs a cultural overhaul to improve the quality of work and care, according to interviews with front-line workers compiled in a new report from UWS researchers.
Decent Work in Scotland’s Care Homes, funded by the British Academy’s Covid-19 Special Research Grant, reveals what care workers think about job quality in social care and what needs to be done to improve it in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.
Researchers Dr Hartwig Pautz, Dr Stephen Gibb and Joan Riddell spent the summer interviewing care staff, predominantly from care homes, to find out more about their working lives.
They were asked about the seven job quality factors which make work ‘decent’ under the International Labour Organisation’s definition: supportive managers; terms and conditions; a safe work environment; decent pay; job security; social recognition; and purpose and meaning.
During the first wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in Scotland, 46% of those who died of the virus (a total of 4,482 people) died in care homes.
Alongside these, at least 14 care home workers also died of Covid-19.
In the researchers’ interviews, many care workers noted that they felt blamed for care home deaths and that they had been, during the crisis, an ‘afterthought’ to health care workers like doctors and nurses, despite undertaking stressful and high-pressure work.
Out of the seven job quality factors, workers felt that five areas had worsened following the outbreak of Covid-19.
A safe work environment was a major cause for concern among those interviewed, with many reporting a lack of access to appropriate personal protective equipment (PPE) at the height of the first wave of the pandemic.
In the view of care workers, the pandemic confirmed long-held beliefs that existing attitudes towards older people – attitudes characterised by ageism – translated directly into a lack of recognition for those who care for them.
The one area which improved was that of purpose and meaning, with the majority of workers saying that a sense of purpose and making a difference is what keeps them in the job.
Dr Gibb continued: “Our research with social care front line workers provides evidence of where the tipping points may be, and what can make a positive difference.
Among those, the biggest tipping point and greatest difference lies in creating a ‘culture of care’.
“Scotland lacks a ‘culture of care’ which values older people specifically, but also other people needing social care.
By addressing this, we can see a real change across the sector.”
Dr Pautz added: “The issues identified in this report are not a product of the pandemic – they are long-standing and require a total cultural shift in order for them to be fully addressed.
“The country’s care workers were under intense pressure throughout the pandemic, putting their own health and safety at risk to care for the most vulnerable in society, and this was largely under-recognised.
“We hope that our work can be used to influence much-needed change across public, private and third-sector care organisations.”
The full report, including the views and stories of Scottish care workers, can be accessed online .

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/research/impacts/colours-of-the-alphabet-screened-across-africa:
Documentary by Prof.
Nick Higgins screened across Africa
The documentary Colours of the Alphabet, produced by University of the West of Scotland academic and Director of the Creative Media Academy, Professor Nick Higgins and directed by Dr Alastair Cole of the University of Newcastle, was screened across Africa on 21 Feb 2018.
The screening was the first ever simultaneous multi-lingual live stream of any film to all 54 African countries.
Released on the AfriDocs platform in conjunction with UNESCO, the film, which takes an intimate look into the African classroom and the consequences of not teaching children in their mother tongue, was made available in 27 indigenous African languages in addition to French, Portuguese and English.
The streaming of the film was the final part of an Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC) funded impact campaign that has led Professor Higgins and Dr Cole to work with the US based Amara platform, the Institute of Translating and Interpreting (ITI), Screen Language and Subtrain to create online training materials for over 60 African based translators.
These translators now form an African Film Translator Network and are an enduring legacy of the project as they continue to subtitle films for the AfriDocs network.
The project also attracted the support of UNESCO, given not only the release date on International Mother Language Day, but also the film's pertinent subject matter and the unique and free multi-lingual distribution strategy.
Professor Nick Higgins, UWS academic and Director of the Creative Media Academy, said: “We were delighted to have worked with AfriDocs and UNESCO to bring this unique documentary film to audiences all across Africa.”
The release was supported by a social media campaign #mytonguemystory that allowed each of the 60 translators and members of the public to share their own stories in their own languages on the project's Facebook and Twitter pages.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/research/impacts/eye-disease-breakthrough:
World’s first treatment for Acanthamoeba keratitis
Following 13 years of ground-breaking research UWS has developed a novel compound to prevent the development of the condition, for which current treatments are extremely difficult and often ineffective.
The disease is caused by cyst-forming microorganism, Acanthamoeba, which invades the cornea of the eye and is commonly found in lakes, oceans and rivers, as well as domestic tap water, swimming pools and hot tubs.
It is normally harmless to humans but can have devastating effects if it comes into contact with the eye.
The 125 million contact lens wearers worldwide are at the highest risk of contracting the disease through making simple hygiene mistakes such as washing contacts or lens cases with tap water or wearing them whilst showering or swimming.
UWS has been granted a patent to protect the novel compound, with a view to it being added during the manufacturing stages to contact lens solution as a simple but effective way of protecting users against the disease.
As the discovery begins to attract global attention across the eye-care industry, a research paper examining the compound and its properties will also be published.
UWS’ Professor Fiona Henriquez, who led the research, said: “Until now, there has been no single-step solution that contact lens wearers or medical professionals can take to kill the pathogen.
“Acanthamoeba is an incredibly strong organism and once it gets inside the eye, and is exposed to medicine, it’s able to form a hard, resistant shell, repelling attack from medication - it can even resist strong disinfectants."
Believed to affect up to 3 million people across the globe annually, Acanthamoeba keratitis can cause excruciating pain, blindness, the requirement of corneal transplants or removal of the eye if it is not brought under control.
Instances of the infection are fifteen times higher in the UK than the USA.
This initial research encouraged visiting Professor and NHS Ayrshire & Arran corneal surgeon, Sathish Srinivasan, to become part of the research team as he identified its huge potential to lead to effective treatment of Acanthamoeba and inform the millions of contact lens users worldwide of the potential dangers.
He commented: “Research conducted at UWS has had a transformational impact on the knowledge of the Acanthamoeba organism, and it will have an immediate effect on the millions of sufferers who contract the disease annually.
“This pioneering research has already impacted other countries including Spain, Germany and Italy through patient groups and research collaborations with prestigious universities including University of Sassari, University of Strathclyde.
Alongside Professor Henriquez and UWS academics Roderick Williams, Scott Thomson and Ronnie Mooney, it has been a career highlight to help deliver this revolutionary research which will transform the eye-care market worldwide.
UWS has found a viable treatment for a once untreatable disease.”
It is proposed that the compound will be included as an additive at the manufacturing stage of contact lens solutions, removing any additional care requirements from contact lens wearers.
Contact lens wearer Yvonne Cunningham, 40, of Stewarton in Ayrshire, experienced a sharp pain in her right eye in November 2018.
Following a visit to her optician, she was diagnosed with iritis – the inflammation of the coloured ring around the iris - and was prescribed antibiotics and steroids to treat the condition.
However, the excruciating pain in her eye developed.
Following 15 hospital visits and no further diagnosis, on Boxing Day 2018 Yvonne woke completely blinded in her right eye.
After weeks of pain & rounds of specialist testing at University Hospital Ayr, she was finally diagnosed with Acanthamoeba keratitis in February 2019.
Frustrated at the misdiagnosis which led to continued deterioration of her eye, Yvonne was then dealt a further blow and was advised that the AK bug had aggressively attacked her cornea, leaving it perforated, and she now needed an emergency cornea transplant.
Yvonne said: “Despite how common it is, I had never heard of Ak before developing it myself.
It’s uncertain whether I’ll ever get any vision back, I’ve had to learn to live with the sight of just one eye which has impacted by social, work and family life.
If the compound discovered by research at UWS can prevent others experiencing the paid I’ve endured, then it truly is amazing.
I hope it also raises awareness around Acanthamoeba keratitis and helps other contact lens wearers understand its severity.”
UWS plans to create a spin-out company to roll out the safe new additive to contact lens and eye care solutions, and this has already attracted attention from industry leaders and contact lens providers.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/business/knowledge-expertise/knowledge-transfer-partnerships/ktp-projects/phoenix-instinct:
Based in Forres, Northeast Scotland, Phoenix Instinct designs travel and daily use wheeled bags specifically to be wheelchair compatible.
These bags carry their own weight through multi-directional wheels, preventing the wheelchair from tipping backward even with heavy loads.
This innovation makes transporting luggage or groceries effortless and perfectly aligned with the wheelchair's movements.
Their latest product, the Phoenix i Hybrid wheelchair , is now available to order.
This revolutionary wheelchair enhances mobility like never before with integrated front wheel power assist, electronic braking, hybrid technology, and a stunning single-piece carbon fibre frame, marking a significant advancement in wheelchair technology.
We’ve partnered with Phoenix and the School of Computing, Engineering, and Physical Sciences for two KTP projects.
The first KTP project aimed to integrate advanced composite structures finite element design capabilities within the business, providing a foundation for future design initiatives.
The second KTP project aims to embed expertise in Electronics, IoT, AI, and Machine Learning to develop the next generation of SMART wheelchairs.
Andrew Slorance, Founder and CEO, Phoenix Instinct
Jakub Rycerz was the KTP Associate on the first KTP project and was retained at the company as a Composites Engineer.
KTP Associate, Muhammad Moid Khan is working on the second KTP project.
The KTP Associates have both contributed immensely to the exciting new developments within the company.
As Moid's project concludes in September, we look forward to celebrating the achievements made during this KTP.
Working directly with the company’s CEO and gaining practical knowledge has been incredibly rewarding.
The small size of the company allowed my input to have a significant impact on the project, and I had the opportunity to apply my engineering skills to real-world challenges, including rapid prototyping and product design using 3D printing.
Jakub Rycerz, KTP Associate, Phoenix Instinct
Scroll to see some of Phoenix Instinct's work.
Also, check out these news articles about Phoenix Instinct's $1millon prize for the ultra-lightweight intelligent wheelchair:

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/strategy2030/case-studies/womens-health-network:
Strategy 2030 case study
For too long, women's health has been underrepresented in research, leaving crucial gaps in knowledge and disparities in healthcare.
Our Women's Health Research Network is our response to this far-ranging inequality, amplifying women's voices in research that leads to impactful change in policy and everyday lives.
Bringing together cross-disciplinary researchers to address gaps in evidence and improve health outcomes for women and girls.
One researcher helping to lead this work is Dr Laura Forrest, focusing on how menstrual cycle-related symptoms impact school life, social interactions, and participation in sport.
Through conversations with pupils, teachers and health professionals, the project identified key barriers to delivering effective menstrual health education, leading to the co-design of a new educational resource to combat stigma, address knowledge gaps, and empower young people to better understand and manage their menstrual health.
Another key area of focus is Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder (PMDD) - a debilitating hormone-based condition that significantly affects daily life.
UWS researchers Dr Lynsay Matthews and Mhairi Campbell have brought the lived experience of PMDD into the spotlight, particularly the challenges faced by those navigating the social security system.
Their findings, which highlighted the lack of trauma-informed support for applicants, has been shared with policymakers including contributing to the Scottish Government's review of Adult Disability Payment, helping to shape more targeted, compassionate care and support.
The Women’s Health Research Network is one of the ways that by 2030, we will be known for our impactful research; building and sharing new knowledge to allow UWS to grow sustainably and develop and transform opportunities for partners and collaborators around the world.
UWS is the birthplace of one of Scotland’s most successful spinout companies: Novosound.
Our Alzheimer Scotland Centre for Policy and Practice (ASCPP) is a unique partnership between UWS and Alzheimer Scotland, providing a high-quality environment for applied research, education and social enterprise.
Our Supporting Student Success model is built on our firm belief that every student deserves the chance to fulfil their potential.
UWS and New College Lanarkshire have formed Scotland's first joint undergraduate school located on a college campus.
UWS and St Mirren Football Club have formalised their longstanding relationship with a partnership, demonstrating their shared commitment to community pride, and excellence in education and sport in Paisley.
Welcome to Strategy 2030 from our Principal and Vice-Chancellor
Discover our purpose
Discover our goals
Discover our values
This partnership aligns with the following United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
3 - Good health and well-being
4 - Quality education
5 - Gender Equality
17 - Partnerships for the goals

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/strategy2030/case-studies/ascpps-international-links:
The Centre is committed to improving the lives of people living with dementia and those who care for them in Scotland, and in communities around the world.
ASCPP’s research is grounded in collaboration with people with lived experience, health and social care professionals and international research partners.
The Centre has built a global reputation for excellence in applied research, education and social innovation, ensuring that real world challenges in dementia care are met with practical and evidence informed solutions.
With partnerships in ten countries, ASCPP's international reach has shaped high-level discussions on dementia care at forums including the Global Alzheimer Research and Care Summit (Lisbon 2017) and Europe’s largest long-term care sector conference (Poland 2019).
One of the Centre's most significant projects brought together partners in the Czech Republic, Finland, Portugal, Scotland, Slovenia, Spain and Sweden to look at how to better support people living with advanced dementia.
The result was a Best Practice Statement, now being used by the Czech Alzheimer Society who integrated it into the Vážka criteria and quality certification system, improving standards in 70 social care facilities.
The Centre's educational influence is equally far-reaching.
Universities in Spain, Portugal, Mexico and Columbia have embedded ASCPP's research into health and social care curricula, and Charles University in Prague has used the distinctive Palliare framework to refresh postgraduate dementia education.
The ASCPP encapsulates our commitment to solving global challenges and collaborating in research and partnerships across the globe to make lives better for individuals and communities.
Our Women's Health Research Network is our response to underrepresented research in Women's health, amplifying women's voices in research that leads to impactful change in policy and everyday lives.
10 - Reduced inequalities

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/research/researcher-development-concordat:
In order to support and embed the Concordat in UWS, we have established a Researcher Development Concordat Steering Group, led by Interim Deputy Vice-Chancellor and Pro Vice-Chancellor (Research & Innovation) Professor Robert Macintosh.
Members of the steering group also contribute to broader institutional initiatives, including equality, diversity and inclusion planning, Athena Swan accreditation, and the University’s Research and Innovation Enabling Plan.
Vitae is an international programme supporting researcher development.
It provides resources and guidance aimed specifically at research staff and research students and their managers.
UWS has a Vitae membership subscription and staff and doctoral students at UWS are able to access the Vitae resources to support their career development.
UWS staff members can gain access to these resources, by registering/logging in at the Vitae website .
University of the West of Scotland first received the HR Excellence in Research award in June 2016, and became a signatory to the revised Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers in 2020.
The award demonstrates our commitment to improving the working conditions and career development for research staff, to in turn improve the quantity, quality and impact of research for the benefit of UK society and the economy.
The University’s researcher development action plan is based around the principles of the Concordat and is reviewed, internally and externally, on a four-yearly basis for re-accreditation.
The University’s reviews, updated action plans and future action plans can be found below.
UWS is committed to the principles of the Athena SWAN Charter, which supports the progression of gender equality within higher education and research institutions across the world.
Established in 2005, the Charter initially focused on advancing the careers of women in Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics and Medicine (STEMM) employment and now addresses gender equality in a wider context.
University of the West of Scotland currently holds the bronze Athena Swan award.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/news/new-research-shows-how-health-could-be-monitored-without-ever-touching-a-patient:
Tuesday 01 07 2025
Researchers, PhD student Cezar Anicai and Professor Muhammad Zeeshan Shakir, believe this technology could be used to develop non-invasive, health monitoring systems that function without the need to fit sensors or wearable devices to patients.
600 minutes of data under varied indoor conditions from the study’s 14 participants was compiled, with variables such as temperature, humidity, light, sound, pressure, air quality, and physiological responses measured to assess the wellbeing of participants.
Cezar Anicai, a PhD student at UWS, said, "We know that the quality of our indoor environments - temperature, air, light, noise – has a direct effect on health outcomes.
“However, traditional wearable or medical-grade sensors, while accurate, are intrusive and unsuitable for long-term, continuous use.
Moreover, they do not offer any information about what is influencing the monitored signals.
“This research demonstrates how smart, indoor spaces equipped with ambient sensors can monitor critical physiological signals, and it enables us to measure the connection between ambient conditions and health indicators with scientific precision.
“We believe this technology would be especially useful in settings such as care homes for the elderly, where residents are largely indoors and often must be closely monitored.
This technology would allow staff to monitor the health of their residents less intrusively and distressing for residents.”
The implications of this research could be far-reaching, offering potential applications in areas such as occupational health, lifestyle modification, and predictive health monitoring.
Following on from the initial study, the team want to further expand the dataset by including more participants, a wider variety of indoor settings, additional environmental and physiological signals.
In parallel, they hope to develop more advanced machine learning models that can adapt quickly to new users to allow for fast and seamless onboarding.
The full dataset and accompanying study are available in the May 22, 2025, issue of Scientific Data.
Click here for more information or to access the dataset.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/news/drugs-and-alcohol-impact-on-unpaid-carers-part-of-new-uws-oxfam-partnership-research-study:
Monday 30 06 2025
The study is being undertaken by the University of the West of Scotland (UWS) in partnership with Carers Trust Scotland and Scottish Families Affected by Alcohol and Drugs (Scottish Families).
The study will run until May 2026 and aims to understand the challenges faced by unpaid carers, including the social and economic impacts of caring for a person using alcohol or drugs.
The researchers also hope to determine the effectiveness of current support structures and identify key areas of need to inform future policy and practice.
Paul Traynor, Head of External Affairs at Carers Trust Scotland, said, “This partnership is a vital step towards addressing the significant gap in understanding the unique experiences of unpaid carers supporting someone with harmful alcohol or drug use.
These unpaid carers often navigate complex situations with limited recognition or support.
By working together with UWS and SFAD, we hope this research will generate meaningful evidence for these unpaid carers and shape more inclusive policies and improve the support available to this often-overlooked group.”
Justina Murray, CEO of Scottish Families Affected by Alcohol and Drugs, said: “There is a woeful lack of research on the experiences of those affected by someone else’s alcohol or drug use, despite an average of 11 people being harmed for each person using substances, across all relationships and social groupings.
As a charity, we are encouraging our family members to recognise that they are unpaid carers, and that they are therefore entitled to all of the same rights, recognition and inclusion in care planning as other carers.
This exciting new partnership project will really help us shine a light on their lives, and the changes we need to see in support and recognition for their role.”
This research aligns with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDGs), specifically Goal 3: Good Health and Well-Being , Goal 10: Reduced Inequalities and Goal 5: Gender Equality.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/news/vision-schools-scotland-2025:
Friday 07 02 2025
Since its launch in 2017, the Vision Schools Scotland programme, delivered by the University of the West of Scotland (UWS) in partnership with the Holocaust Educational Trust, has garnered widespread praise for its ability to equip teachers with essential resources and professional development opportunities.
The programme is supported by funding from the Scottish Government and the UK Department for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities.
By promoting responsible citizenship, a core value of Scotland’s Curriculum for Excellence, the programme encourages educators to confront the complexities of the Holocaust with confidence and clarity.
One teacher from Alva Academy commented, “In dealing with delicate topics such as the Holocaust, along with our approaches developed through our work with Vision Schools this has helped us plan, prepare and deliver lessons on current conflicts.”
Eleven of the participating schools across Scotland were recognised for best practice in Holocaust education at an event at Scottish Parliament on Thursday 6 February 2025.
Alva Academy, Chryston High School, Mearns Castle High School and West Calder have renewed their Vision Schools Scotland status for a further three years.
Balerno High School, Inverurie Academy and Williamwood High School have been awarded level one status until 2027.
St Ninian’s High School East Dunbartonshire and St Ninian’s High School, East Renfrewshire have been awarded level two status also until 2027.
Isobel Mair School and Kirkintilloch High School received a Recognition of Commitment in Holocaust Education.
The celebratory event was hosted by Jackie Baillie MSP, and Jackson Carlaw MSP.
Ms Baillie said, “Vision Schools Scotland continues to deliver vital school-based learning on the horrors of the Holocaust.
As levels of antisemitism continue to rise across the UK, Vision Schools is doing key work to ensure generations of young people understand why the past cannot be repeated, and crucially, that they will never forget.”
Mr Carlaw said, "Vision Schools Scotland is simply an outstanding education project and the knowledge of hundreds of young people about the lessons of the Holocaust has been bolstered through the programme.
"The Holocaust Education initiative keeps growing each year and I have been so impressed by the work of Vision Schools Scotland that last year, I wrote to His Majesty The King to highlight its fantastic success.
"I am delighted to have co-hosted yet another annual awards ceremony with Jackie and I congratulate the pupils on securing the Vision Status accreditation for their schools."
Guest speakers included the Cabinet Secretary for Education and Skills; Ms Jenny Gilruth MSP and the Lord Mann, the UK Government’s Independent Adviser on Antisemitism who said:
“I would like to congratulate each of the schools that received awards at today's special event in the Scottish Parliament.
They have demonstrated a commitment to teaching the Holocaust and its contemporary relevance at the highest level, with diligence and sensitivity, to ensure students are equipped with vital knowledge, at a time when the memory of the Holocaust is increasingly under attack.
“I also commend the Scottish Parliament for hosting this event.
At a time of rising antisemitism across the UK, strong statements of commitment to Holocaust Education for our young people such as this are important.
“I will continue to highlight to government the success of the Vision Schools programme as a leading provider of quality Holocaust education in Scotland."
Professor James Miller, Principal and Vice-Chancellor of UWS, said, “It’s fantastic to hear that 80% of teachers feel more confident in teaching about the Holocaust through their work with Vision Schools.
“This shows the importance of the initiative in empowering educators to teach this difficult subject, especially at a time when our communities can feel more divided and polarised than ever.
“I’d also like to congratulate the eleven schools who were recognised for best practice in Holocaust education.
This is a fantastic achievement and testament to the hard work and commitment of the pupils and teachers involved.”

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/news/uws-launches-research-network-to-address-underrepresentation-of-womens-health-in-research:
Tuesday 22 10 2024
Women's health issues have historically been underrepresented in scientific research, leading to gaps in knowledge and disparities in healthcare outcomes.
The Women's Health Research Network at UWS is poised to fill this critical gap by prioritising research that specifically focuses on women’s health across various stages of life.
Serving as a hub for innovative research, fostering collaboration between experts dedicated to advancing women's health, the Network will ensure that the unique health needs of women are thoroughly investigated and understood.
By bringing together a diverse group of researchers, healthcare professionals, and advocates from across the University’s four schools, the network aims to create a comprehensive understanding of women's health issues and drive significant advancements in the field.
Laura Jackson, a lecturer in Adult Nursing and Community Health at UWS in the School of Health and Life Sciences, and a founding member of the network, emphasised the importance of this initiative: "Historically, research has often overlooked or inadequately represented women, resulting in a significant gap in our understanding of women's health issues.
“The Women's Health Research Network is a vital step towards rectifying this imbalance.
By focusing our efforts on women's health, we can develop targeted interventions and improve healthcare outcomes for women."
The network will address a wide range of women's health issues, extending beyond traditional areas such as fertility, menopause, and gynaecology.
The network is dedicated to addressing a wide array of determinants of health and health concerns that disproportionately impact women from violence against women and girls, mental health issues and motherhood to the menstrual cycle.
By maintaining a broad focus and fostering interdisciplinary collaboration, the Women's Health Research Network aims to generate new insights and innovative solutions that can be translated into effective healthcare practices and policies.
University of the West of Scotland has a strong commitment to promoting equality and diversity in all aspects of its work.
The launch of the Women's Health Research Network is a testament to this commitment and an acknowledgment of the need for more inclusive and representative research.
The initiative also directly addresses the UN Sustainable Development Goals 3, 5, 10 and 16.
UWS Principal and Vice-Chancellor, Professor James Miller, expressed his support for the initiative: "The establishment of the Women's Health Research Network marks a crucial step towards addressing the persistent underrepresentation of women’s health in scientific research, ensuring it finally receives the focus it demands.
“This initiative not only aligns with our commitment to the UN Sustainable Development Goals, particularly those focused on health, well-being, and gender equality, but it also reflects our broader mission to advance Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion across all areas of our work.
“By prioritising research on women's health, we aim to reduce health disparities, promote gender equity, and create a more inclusive approach to healthcare that will ultimately lead to better outcomes for women everywhere."

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/research/ukri-future-leaders:
The University of the West of Scotland is eager to support emerging and exceptional talent in various exciting research areas.
The UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship offers long-term, flexible support, including the fellow's salary and research, staff and training costs, plus the opportunity of a permanent academic position on successful completion of the fellowship.
Future Leaders Fellowships 10 (2025)
Future Leaders Fellowships 9 (2024)

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/research/vision-schools-scotland:
Established in 2017, Vision Schools Scotland is a partnership between the School of Education and Social Sciences and the Holocaust Educational Trust.
Published in 2021 and 2023 and formerly hosted on the GTCS website these resources can now be accessed in the Resources for Schools tile below.
The resource based on the testimony of Rev.
Ernest Levy OBE is suitable for p7-S2 students; the resource based on Marianne Grant is principally aimed at S1-S2 students.
Both resources comprise film testimony and teacher guide.
Congratulations to students and teachers from the eleven schools who received a 2024 Vision Schools Scotland Award.
Awards were distributed by the Cabinet Secretary for Education and Skills, Ms Jenny Gilruth, at the annual event at the Scottish Parliament.
Our thanks to hosts Jackson Carlaw and Jackie Baillie MSPs, guest speaker Lord Mann, His Majesty’s Independent Adviser on Antisemitism, and the Rt Honourable Ken Macintosh, former Presiding Officer of the Scottish Parliament whose contributions made this event a success.
Watch the full awards ceremony here .
Check out the newly established Vision Schools Scotland Schools Library Network and information about prizes for the best book reviews.
Want to win a class set of books for your school?
Click the link below to find out how to enter and give your pupils / teachers the chance to enjoy a fantastic new collection of books to read!
More than 300 students attended St Machar High School to learn about the Holocaust.
Guest speaker Janine Webber spoke to students from six Aberdeen schools.
This unique learning opportunity was followed by a Career Long Professional Learning event that was attended by 30 teachers.
This was organised by Vision Schools Scotland in partnership with The Holocaust Educational Trust.
Vision Schools Scotland aims to promote excellence in Holocaust teaching by:
Find out more about the process and how you can become part of our network.
How To Apply
Schools that have successfully completed our course
How to become a Vision School
Resources that Vision Schools Scotland has created and recommended  resources.
Events
Vision Schools Scotland supports Scottish primary and secondary schools in their Teaching and Learning About the Holocaust.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/research/research-institutes-centres-groups/careed:
CAREED is a unique centre of excellence within Scotland which focuses on five key areas of interests reflecting the areas of research interests of academic namely: commodities and exporting; logistics and supply chain management; enterprise and entrepreneurship (including gender enterprise); governance and ethics; and microfinance and social business.
The Centre intends to progress this conversation as the we expand and develop.
Our vision is to contribute to the debate leading to the promotion and realisation of Africa’s expanding consumer market, vast natural resources, and the growing young force which focuses on positioning the continent for robust economic growth that promises big returns on investment.
We intend to shift the paradigm from the perspective of aid dependent to that of investment, trade and development.
CAREED vision is based on two main fulcra:
Our activities such as Projects, academic conferences and book and journal publications reflect key tenets of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.
For example, our Innovate UK funded Agro-ponic project in Rwanda and Agri-tech project in Kenya are targeted to achieve the requirements of the following:
CAREED's projects are targeted at ensuring poverty is eradicated in the communities where we operate, example are our projects in Rwanda and Kenya and Uganda.
CAREED's Agro-ponic and Agri-tech projects are focused on bringing end to hunger, and to achieve food security and improve nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture.
We achieve this with our partnerships with Coffee Conscience Ltd.
and Just Trading Scotland.
Both of these organisations based in the Scotland but trading with Africa.
CAREED promotes well-being to ensure that people stay healthy so they can work and support themselves and their families.
This is being achieved by partnering with NjordFrey in Rwanda.
CAREED is focused on ensuring inclusive and equitable quality research with outputs that promote lifelong impacts on African economy, Policy making, and the society.
CAREED's projects strive make our programmes gender-equitable from the planning stage through to implementation.
Our programmes strive to empower women, girls and youths.
CAREED is committed to promote sustained, inclusive, and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment, and decent work associated with our projects in those countries we have presence in Africa.
SDG 9 is concerned with building resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialisation and foster innovation.
CAREED is meeting this goal through our Innovate UK funded innovations in Agri-tech/agro-ponic projects in Rwanda, Kenya, with similar project in Nigeria.
SDG 16 is concerned with promoting peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels.
CAREED addresses this goal at our conferences, particularly through the corporate governance , ethics, microfinance and social enterprise sessions.
CAREED aims to strengthen the means of implementation and revitalise the global partnership for African sustainable development.
CAREED has held many conferences over the last few years on the broad theme of enterprise and economic development in Africa.
These conferences relate to African economic development: Commodities and Trade; African Enterprise; Logistics and Supply Chain: and Governance, Microfinance, and HR.
CAREED conferences directly contributes to achieving the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDG).
CAREED has hosted a number of international conferences since its inception in 2014.
Below are the names and dates of these conferences.
27-28 June, 2024
Conference theme: Fostering economic transformation in African Ecosystems: Impact of trade, infrastructure, and innovation
29-30 June, 2023
18-19 November, 2021
Conference Theme: Enterprise Innovation and Structural Transformation of Africa in a Post-Covid ERA
Virtual Conference – Wednesday 9th December 2020
Theme: Enterprise and Economic Development in Africa: The way Forward
Thursday Wednesday 29th – Friday 31st May 2019
Theme: Enterprise and Economic Development in Africa: Challenges and Opportunities
We invited abstracts and papers from a wide range of topics relevant to enterprise and economic devolvement in Africa:
Conceptual papers are invited.
We also encourage doctoral students and early career researchers to submit short papers and/or research ideas for poster presentations.
Full papers were published in the Conference Proceedings after the conference.
This year the conference was preceded by an optional 2.5 day residential writing retreat which was held in a beautiful area of Scotland.
Places were limited on the retreat.
The writing retreat took place between 26-28th August.
Thursday 31st May and Friday 1st June 2018
Theme: Transforming Barriers to Effective Economic Development in Africa into Enablers
Thursday 6th April and Friday 7th April 2017
Theme: Nurturing Entrepreneurship and Economic Development in Africa
Thursday 12th and Friday 13th November 2015
Theme: African Enterprise and Economic Development: A proud History, A Promising Future
For a complete overview of research activities involving UWS staff, please also refer to our research portal.
UWS RESEARCH PORTAL
RECENTLY COMPLETED DOCTORAL RESEARCH PROGRAMMES
We collaborate with both academic and non-academic institutions across the world.
A few of CAREED collaborations are with the following:
For a complete overview of research activities involing UWS staff, please also refer to our research portal.
Prof John Struthers Director of CAREED Email: John.Struthers@uws.ac.uk
Dr Adebisi Adewole Deputy Director (Membership, Finance, Media and Partnerships) Email: Adebisi.Adewole@uws.ac.uk
Dr Dina Nziku Deputy Director (Conference Organising and Management) Email: Dina.Nziku@uws.ac.uk
Professor Jacinta Nwachukwu Lancashire School of Business and Enterprise , University of Central Lancashire, Preston, UK
Dr Samuel Gayi Retired UNCTAD Director, Special Unit Commodities – United Nations, Geneva, Switzerland Email: Sammy.gayi@gmail.com
Dr Alice Nicole Sindzingre National Centre for Scientific Research (CNRS) France Email: asindzingre@orange.fr
Professor Heather Tarbert Heather.Tarbert@uws.ac.uk
Dr Ahmed Beloucif Ahmed.Beloucif@uws.ac.uk
Dr David Burl David.Burl@uws.ac.uk
Mbusiro Chacha Mbusiro.chacha@uws.ac.uk
Dr Toyin Coker Toyin.Coker@uws.ac.uk
Dr Stephen Collins Stephen.Collins@uws.ac.uk
Dr Firdu Gemech Firdu.Gemech@uws.ac.uk
Dr Christian Harrison Christain.Harrison@uws.ac.uk
Dr Abeer Hassan Abeer.Hassan@uws.ac.uk
Dr Allan Moore Allan.Moore@uws.ac.uk
Ahmad Qureshi Ahmad.Qureshi@uws.ac.uk
Kingsley N.
Emeana Kingsley.NnamdiEmeana@uws.ac.uk
Olamide Olusegun Olamide.olusegun@uws.ac.uk
Charlotte Eba BlaJoseeCharlotte.Eba@uws.ac.uk
Amina Abdessalam Amina.abdessalam@uws.ac.uk
Ayodele Adetuyi Ayodele.Adetuyi@uws.ac.uk
Imene El Azzaoui Imene.elazzaoui@uws.ac.uk
Adefunke Emeagwali Adefunke.Emeagwali@uws.ac.uk
Inyang Nyongessien Inyang.nyongessien@uws.ac.uk
Abdul-Hakeem Raji Abdulhakeem.raji@uws.ac.uk
Anietie Matthew B00140335@studentmail.uws.ac.uk
Mariam Wokocha B00360788@studentmail.uws.ac.uk
Dr Isaac Amaoko Liverpool John More University I.O.Amoako@ljmu.ac.uk
Dr Thandi Mtetwa
Kingsley Obinna Omeihe Edinburgh Napier University
Henry Eze Strathclyde University
Willie Mambwe University of the West of Scotland
Professor John Adams British University of Egypt
Lucas Njenga lukas@heartforthecity.co.uk
Olufunke Owoyokun B00397825@studentmail.uws.ac.uk
Abdulmonem Esaudi Abdulmonem.Esaudi@uws.ac.uk
Professor Aniebiet Inyang Ntui ntuinju@unical.edu.ng
Phelisa Njeru Mount Kenyan University pnjeru@mku.ac.ke
Doris Mavuta Mount Kenyan University dmavuta@mku.ac.ke
Michael Oluwasogo Olatunbosun Splash FM Nigeria Miketunbosu74@gmail.com
Oluwaseun Akinola Splash FM Nigeria sammyesheray@gmail.com
Ben Ukpe Ekanikpong Ekan.ben@elkanisgroup.com
Centre for African Research on Enterprise and Economic Development (CAREED) is a structured research unit within UWS's School of Business and Creative Studies.
CAREED was established with purpose of advancing scholarly activities primarily through collaborative research, research training, research dissemination and project management.
It intends to foster critical thinking and analytical skills though seminar series and workshops that help to expand knowledge and understanding of members chosen fields.
In this climate of uncertainty and competing demands, the benefits of research centre such CAREED must be set out more explicitly than ever.
We believe that academic research drives prosperity, and as a member of the centre, you will be part of a network of professionals with good solid foundation of African experience and research expertise focused on commodities and exporting, logistics and supply chain management, the global value chains debate, governance, ethics and corporate social responsibility, microfinance, social enterprise, and economic development.
You will have the opportunity to gain knowledge and share your expertise and experience through our seminar, workshops, conferences and other events.
In addition, members can publish their articles with our working paper series and will have access to our high-quality research done by our expertise in different fields.
The centre provides a mutually supportive environment and structure in which PhD student researchers are nurtured and supported.
This is in addition to the support given for attending and presenting in academic conferences and workshops and seminars, as well as opportunities to engage in teaching.
In the long run possibly internship opportunities in companies and public sector organisation with an interest in Africa.
As a member of CAREED, you will also benefit from the following opportunities offered by the Centre:
All the CAREED members will be entitled to a special discount fees for writing retreats organised during the time of our conferences.
Download the CAREED Associate Membership form here.
Email: careed@uws.ac.uk
School of Business & Creative Industries University of the West of Scotland Paisley Scotland PA1 2BE

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/research/research-institutes-centres-groups/pcrc:
UWS Protracted Crisis Research Centre (PCRC) brings together an interdisciplinary group of researchers from across the University to focus research on fragile lives.
We engage with the long term problems brought about by large scale global challenges - of displacement, ecological breakdown, conflict, poverty, poor health, gender based violence and lack of access to food, shelter and economic opportunities.
According to the Food and Agricultural Organisation of the UN:
These crises are multidimensional and complex, and require long term relationships and interdisciplinary thinking to begin to tackle them.
Working internationally with a network of partner organisations in Africa, South Asia and Latin America, we bring expertise from key partners in the Global South into dialogue with academics across the four UWS Schools, to
The Centre is funded by the Global Challenges Research Fund through the Scottish Funding Council.
PCRC events and research activities take a collaborative, cross-disciplinary research approach across UWS working with some of the most marginalised and vulnerable populations.
Protracted crises, whether caused by conflict, natural disasters, or other factors, result in prolonged and severe humanitarian consequences, and impede developmental progress.
We aim to inform public debates on challenging urban and global issues surrounding precarious lives, including modern slavery, forced displacement, waste management, and climate change.
This conference was organised in collaboration between the Development Studies Association (Scotland) Study Group, the UWS Protracted Crisis Research Centre (PCRC) and the UWS Centre for African Research on Enterprise and Economic Development (CAREED).
The theme for this conference was “Migration in the Global South” and it focused on a wide range of topics relevant to the conference theme and sub-themes below:
The Climate Culture Summit, which took place on April 25th in the CCA: Centre for Contemporary Arts in Glasgow, brought together diverse arts and cultural perspectives from the cities of Vienna, Gdansk, Stockholm, and Evoia, alongside representatives from local government, Creative Carbon Scotland, and HE, to debate and discuss the multiple roles that arts, culture and the practices of creative citizenship can play in tackling climate change.
This one-day event was co-organised by the Turning the Tide partnership, Fablevision and the Protracted Crisis Research Centre at the University of the West of Scotland.
Supported by Creative Europe, Creative Scotland, the Scottish Graduate School for the Arts and Humanities, and the Creative Media Academy at the University of the West of Scotland.
If you missed the event, and would like to watch our keynote speakers’ presentations, you can view them online
View Turning the Tide Video Presentations
The British Academy/GCRF funded Waste, Work and Wellbeing project, co-led with  ACORN India,  and Bath School of Art, Bath Spa University, has built a comprehensive archive of the activities of Compound 13 Lab, Dharavi on its website ( www.compound13.org ).
In addition, August 2023, saw the publication of Professor Graham Jeffery and Dr Ben Parry’s edited book Waste Work: the art of survival in Dharavi (Wunderkammer Press/Arts Edition North).
Dr Stephen Collins, Reader in Performance, delivered a sold-out public workshop on safeguarding intangible cultural heritage in Scotland, with Historic Environment Scotland .
The Ar Dàimhean is Dualachas ( Our Relationships and Heritage ) project team including, Dr Collins, Dr Ben Thomas (HES) and HES’s Gaelic team, Catriona Morrison and Iain Craig, are working with communities to understand what intangible cultural heritage means to them and how they can be better supported in future by Scotland’s public bodies.
The team have delved into the exploration of Scotland’s intangible cultural heritage – those elements of culture not existing in physical forms but transmitted across generations.
This encompasses stories, traditional music, oral histories, and skills such as peat cutting.
Unlike many other nations, the UK currently lacks a comprehensive framework to guarantee the preservation of these time-honoured traditions.
Dr Collins has also written for The Conversation , looking at why Scotland needs a legal framework to protect its cultural heritage.
The project is funded by the British Academy’s Early Career Researcher Network.
Dr Henry Bell (Performance) took part in the recent Children as Peacemakers in Divided Societies: Educational Approaches Conference in Sarajevo, Bosnia & Herzegovina (7-11 October).
This conference was co-organised by the War Childhood Museum Foundation (WCM) and International Association for Intercultural Education (IAIE).
Dr Bell delivered a practice-based research workshop, called Yesterday, Today, Tomorrow – Peacebuilding Through Performance to 35 teachers, educators and lecturers from a variety of countries.
He also co-chaired the panel Teaching and Research Methodologies to Address Division and Conflict .
Working with Creative Carbon Scotland, PCRC and the UWS Division of Arts and Media hosted a successful Climate Assembly on November 29 th 2023, bringing together cultural practitioners, local authority and health service representatives, educators and artists to build an action plan for the cultural sector to engage with climate chance issues across North Ayrshire, East Ayrshire and South Ayrshire
KEY HIGHLIGHTS
Online International PhD Scholar Conference on “Researching Sensitive Subjects and Fragile Lives” December 5-7, 2023, Marks a Resounding Success
The recently concluded three-day International online PhD Scholar Conference, co-hosted by our Centre and the Global Refugee Health Research Network (GRHRN), at the University of Edinburgh, has left an important mark in the academic landscape.
Led by Dr Dina Sidhva with academic collaboration from Northumbria University, Robert Gordon University, Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai, Edinburgh Napier University, and the Artistic Director at the Itinerants, the event brought together scholars, practitioners, and experts from 22 universities and three NGOs worldwide.
Highlights of the Conference: Themed around ‘Researching Sensitive Subjects and Fragile Lives’, the conference explored crucial aspects such as ethical research practices, epistemic justice, and creative, arts-based research methods.
The event featured 43 sessions, with 45 speakers, creating a comprehensive platform for intellectual exchange and networking.
Speakers from the University of the West of Scotland played pivotal roles in the success of the conference.
Dr Dina Sidhva gave the opening reflections ‘Embarking on the Journey: Unveiling the Landscape of Fragile Lives and Epistemic Inquiry’.
Prof Milan Radosavljevic, Pro Vice-Chancellor (Research, Innovation & Engagement), gave a rousing opening welcome to the conference.
Prof Colin Clark, Associate Dean for Research and Innovation and Professor of Sociology and Social Policy (ESS) delivered a moving opening keynote titled ‘Breaking Barriers’.
The address explored the experiences, challenges, and future possibilities for Gypsies, Travellers, and Roma students and staff in the UK University sector.
Dr Julie Clark (ESS) gave a powerful Keynote on PhD Journeys, ‘Embracing the PhD Journey navigating with perseverance, passion and planning’, and a session on epistemic justice entitled, ‘Where does the Knowledge lie?
or the confidence to know that we are ignorant’.
PhD Scholars Nesma Sayah (ESS) and Dr Mohammad Mollah (HLS) at different parts of their PhD journeys spoke passionately about the challenges and rewards on their PhD journeys.
Other UWS speakers included Dr Eric Baumgartner, Dean of ESS, who presented on: Epistemic Dominance and Researching ‘Vulnerable People’.
PhD scholar Paula Gow (ESS) shared her research on ‘Hearing the Voices of Very Young Children’.
Dr Khadija Mohammad shared her PhD work on ‘I'm Just a Teacher!
What chance is there for future anti-racist education?’
Our colleague Geraldine Graham (ESS) along with our ex-colleague Dr Iris Altenberger from Robert Gordon University, presented on ‘Art-based research: an exploration of Social work facing climate change in the North East of Scotland’.
Prof Graham Jeffery, Director of the Protracted Crisis Research Centre, gave a keynote on ‘What ARTS-Based Methods Can do and Cannot Do: Working with vulnerable communities and volatile Situations’.
Dr Dina Sidhva’s closing reflections explored ‘Navigating Fragile Landscapes: Charting a Course for Epistemic Justice and Global Collaboration’.
All the UWS contributions added significant value, enriching the conference with diverse perspectives and expertise.
Global Impact: From December 5th to 7th, the conference not only fostered collaborative research initiatives but also concluded with the creation of a new global network for PhD scholars.
The inclusive platform, with online engagement across various time zones, addressed the complexities of fragile lives and amplified marginalised voices, promoting ethical research practices and interdisciplinary collaboration.
The success of the event lies in its ability to transcend geographical boundaries, serving as a catalyst for positive change in research methodologies concerning sensitive subjects and fragile lives.
Plastik ka Mela (Festival of Plastic): waste work and the art of survival
In April, during a one-day symposium live streamed from G5A Foundation in Mumbai, we brought together community members, academics, artists, and urbanists to explore some of the issues and challenges faced by the communities of workers who through their efforts, every day, prevent the city of Mumbai from disappearing under a mountain of its own plastic waste.
Compound 13 Lab is an experimental learning space, situated close to the plastic recycling hub of 13 Compounds in Dharavi, that uses art, design, music, media and experimental science as a platform for generating knowledge and sharing learning.
The symposium aimed to provide participants an opportunity to reflect on the principles and pedagogies that underpin the work undertaken in the Lab, incorporating voices and perspectives from projects exploring similar issues in other locations worldwide, including work from Disappearing Dialogues, West Bengal; Agbogbloshie Makerspace Platform, Ghana, and the Museum for the United Nations’ Global WE project.
Professor Graham Jeffery, Director, Protracted Crisis Research Centre, University of the West of Scotland and Dr Ben Parry, Reader in Curatorial Practice, Bath Spa University, presented their new publication: Waste Work: the art of survival in Dharavi , which documents and explains the approaches and methods used in building Compound 13 Lab as a shared space for learning, and reflects on the knowledges, contestations and urban struggles that shape the ‘wastescapes’ of informal recycling work in India.
The symposium was presented by Compound 13 Lab in association with G5A Foundation , ACORN India, Bath School of Art, Film and Media, Bath Spa University , and the Protracted Crisis Research Centre at the University of the West of Scotland.
Supported by the British Academy through the UK Government’s Global Challenges Research Fund.
The Ashank Desai Policy Center at IIT Bombay hosted the Compound 13 Lab team led by Professor Graham Jeffery, Director, Protracted Crisis Research Centre, UWS and Dr Caroline Knowles, Professor of Sociology at Goldsmiths, University of London to discuss how formal and informal infrastructures interact to affect the well-being of people in cities across the Global South.
The research project focuses on Dharavi, which examines urban development through the lens of the ‘smart city from below’, at the interface between the user-generated city and centralized urban planning systems.
This presentation covered various aspects of ongoing project in Dharavi and included an overview of the way in which the informal plastic waste industry is organised in the Greater Mumbai region.
The presentation also discussed the innovative methods used to engage with the site and the people to identify, understand, engage and communicate the tacit knowledge embedded in local communities.
To view presentation slides please contact us using the email address below.
You can follow PCRC on X (Twitter) : and on LinkedIn where you can find regular updates on events, seminars and research activities.
Please get in touch if you would like any further information about any of our activities or you have a project or a proposal for collaboration.
You can reach the PCRC team at pcrc.contact@uws.ac.uk .
We would like to congratulate the following Principal Investigators on GCRF funded projects, who since 2021 have offered a wide range of active, socially engaged, creative and equitable approaches to generating knowledge collaboratively, with the voices and perspectives of participants and communities at the core of their work, therefore portraying notable examples of UWS research teams’ approaches in doing research work in the global South.
Dr Dalia Alazzeh (School of Business and Creative Industries) Investigating natural assets degradation in the settler-colonial context: the case of the Occupied Palestinian territories (OPT).
International Partner: An-Najah National University | Nablus – Palestine
Dr Kalyan Bhandari (School of Business and Creative Industries) “Community level tourism resilience in Nepal”.
International Partner: Pacific Asia Travel Associated (PATA) Nepal Chapter.
Dr Stephen Collins (School of Business and Creative havIndustries) “Developing strategies for arts-based engagement in combatting modern slavery” in Ghana.
International Partner: James Town Community Theatre & Centre and James Town Walking Tours
Dr Abeer Hassan (School of Business and Creative Industries) “Exploring biodiversity reporting and extinction accounting in a developing economy” in South Africa.
International partner: Witwatersrand University, South Africa
Prof Katarzyna Kosmala (School of Business and Creative Industries) and Reem Kaseem (UWS PhD Candidate/ AGORA for Arts and Culture) “Resilience building through virtual cultural engagement” in Egypt.
International Partner: AGORA for Arts and Culture, Egypt.
Research Team: Dr Dina Sidhva
Since the beginning of the Syrian conflict in 2011, an estimated 1.3 million Syrian refugees have fled to Jordan.
Women and girls comprise most of these refugees.
There is increasing evidence suggesting that a significant number of refugee women and girls have experienced sexual gender-based violence (SGBV).
They are more likely to experience physical-violence within the home; while harassment, emotional-violence, and discrimination are more likely to occur outside the home.
This GCRF project aims to develop an empirical understanding of the heightened impact of SGBV on Syrian refugee women and girls in Jordan, with aim of reducing the impact on them through the recommendation of policies.
In this sense, through policy-dialogue, the project will open space for policymakers and humanitarian-aid practitioners to critically examine the research findings in order to advance their development agendas, thus contributing to the realisation of the UN Sustainable Development Goals (3,5,10) for empowering women and girls promoting their good health and well-being while reducing inequalities.
Research Team: Dr Christian Harrison, Dr Julie Clark and Dr Emilia Pietka-Nykaza, Prof Colin Clark, Dr Evi Viza, Dr Abeer Hassan, Dr Stephen Gibb and Prof Andrew Hursthouse
Women account for around half of the world’s 33.2 million internally displaced persons, with Nigeria having the largest population (3.3 million) in Africa.
Driven by conflict, natural and human-made disasters, protracted displacement of women is a multifaceted and complex phenomenon, creating refugees and threatening lives, choice and livelihoods.
Aligned with UN Sustainable Development Goals (9-11) for innovation, reducing inequality, and urban sustainability, this GCRF funded project is underpinned by research in entrepreneurship and leadership.
Its main objective is to develop a robust methodology for evaluating and addressing the challenges that women in protracted displacement encounter including:
Accessing and utilising diverse resources,
Developing innovative entrepreneurship behaviours to access livelihoods while fulfilling their economic, social and emotional needs.
Supporting women’s occupational safety and environmental health
Research Team: Prof Graham Jeffery, Dr Julie Clark, Prof John Connolly, Prof Andrew Hursthouse (UWS), Prof Anurag Garg (IIT Mumbai), Dr Mary Josephine (Nirmala College for Women), Dr Ben Parry (Bath Spa University)
This project, funded by GCRF through the British Academy, aims to provide an in-depth analysis of formal/informal infrastructural collisions in Mumbai.
Dharavi, as one of the largest informal settlements in Asia, is a highly significant centre of employment and economic activity but is directly affected by many global challenges (e.g.
poverty, plastic waste, water shortage, poor urban resilience, migration, housing and sanitation).
Its recycling industry is entirely self-organised within the informal sector.
Poor infrastructure creates air/groundwater pollution and significant land contamination.
Reducing waste comes at the expense of human health and life.
The research team seeks to examine urban development through the lens of the 'smart city from below', at the interface between the user-generated city and centralised urban planning systems.
It looks to also address issues of trust, health protection, participation, ownership and ethics in the implementation of infrastructure-driven solutions, specifically at the points of collision between 'top down' development (e.g.
the USD3.4bn Mumbai Metro 3) and the 'user-generated city' of the Dharavi workers colony.
Research Team: Dr Steve Collins
This project began in 2018 with a research grant from the Anti-Slavery Knowledge Network (GCRF).
Working with a community theatre and walking tour in James Town, Dr Steve Collins led an 18-month research project into the links between modern slavery and historic slavery in James Town, Accra, an area of significant economic deprivation.
This project resulted in the development of a new performance based on original testimonies of survivors of modern slavery in the area.
The performance was seen by over a thousand people in local schools and in the Community Theatre.
The follow-on workshops, led by community practitioners revealed a new engagement with a topic that has long been taboo.
The team also developed a bespoke walking tour (bookable at Jamestownwalkingtours.wordpress.com) which takes tourists and locals around areas of particular significance to historic slavery in the area.
A story that had long been forgotten.
The film was given official selection at the Changing the Story International Film Festival in 2020.
View the film here
The team were given follow-on funding in 2020, to explore notions of formal and informal safeguarding for survivors of modern slavery.
We are now pursuing further funding via AHRC/GCRF to examine the impact of the project.
The PCRC research teams bring together knowledge expertise from across various fields of studies to analyse and find solutions to problems impacting our global community.
Here you will find a selection of recent academic publications presented by our research teams.
Professor Colin Clark and colleagues’ recent publication in the journal of Social Policy and Society, discussed antigypsyism.
Engaging with decolonisation, tackling antigypsyism: lessons from teaching Romani studies at the Central European University in Hungary.
Brooks, E., Clark, C.
& Rostas, I., Jan 2022, In: Social Policy and Society .
21, 1, p.
68-79 12 p.
Professor Andrew Hursthouse and colleagues investigate the impact of developing and adopting more sustainable food-processing strategies through development of a waste handling strategy: http://tiny.cc/ufcvtz
Dr Abeer Hassan and colleagues have undertaken the first systematic literature review on biodiversity and species extinction accounting for sustainable development: https://t.co/60kG2MtEyj?amp=1
Dr Dina Nziku and Colette Henry looking into the policies for supporting women entrepreneurs in Tanzania has been published in the Journal of Entrepreneurship and Public Policy https://t.co/AIwK2vuS2Z?amp=1
Nziku, D.
M., Dana, L-P., Balslev, H., & Salamzadeh, A.
(Eds.) (2023).
Women Entrepreneurs in the Middle East: Context, Ecosystems, and Future Perspectives for the Region.
(Asia-Pacific Business Series; Vol.
16).
World Scientific Publishing Company, Incorok hporated
The ghost at the junction: exploring the links between historic and modern slavery in Accra, Ghana.
Collins, S.
& Quartey, N.
K., 1 Aug 2022, In: Journal of Modern Slavery .
7, 1
Exhibition, James Town.
Ghana: How can we practice freedom?
Community practices of storytelling - Collins, S., 3 Mar 2022
Community, Performance, Testimony: talking about human trafficking in Accra, Collins, S., 8 Apr 2021, In: Global Policy .
Access to HIV/AIDS or TB care among refugees in Kampala, Uganda: exploring the enablers and barriers during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Palattiyil, G., Kisaakye, P., Mwenyango, H., Katongole, S., Mulekya, F., Sidhva, D., Nair, H.
& Bukuluki, P., 8 Apr 2022, In: Journal of Migration and Health.
5, 9 p., 100098.
Impact of coronavirus disease (COVID-19) crisis on migrants on the move in Southern Africa: implications for policy and practice.
Mushomi, J.
A., Palattiyil, G., Bukuluki, P., Sidhva, D., Myburgh, N.
D., Nair, H., Mulekya-Bwambale, F., Tamuzi, J.
L.
& Nyasulu, P.
S., 21 Jan 2022, In: Health Systems & Reform.
8, 1, 9 p., e2019571.
Global trends in forced migration: policy, practice and research imperatives for social work.
Palattiyil, G., Sidhva, D., Seraphia Derr, A.
& Macgowan, M., 28 Jul 2021, (E-pub ahead of print) In: International Social Work .
Palattiyil, G., Sidhva, D.
HIV, Human Rights and Migration: Narratives of HIV-Positive Asylum Seekers in Scotland.
J.
Hum.
Rights Soc.
Work (2021).
(2021) Community, Performance, Testimony: Talking about Human Trafficking in Accra.
Global Policy e-book: International Law and Human Rights.
(Forthcoming)
Ahmed, F.
and Harrison, C.
(2021) Challenges and competencies of entrepreneurial leaders in driving innovation at DIY laboratories.
Technology Analysis and Strategic Management.
E-pub ahead of print - 29 Mar 2021.
Application of a new HMW framework derived ANN model for optimization of aquatic dissolved organic matter removal by coagulation Zhu, G., Xiong, N., Wang, C., Li, Z.
& Hursthouse, A.
S., 31 Jan 2021, In: Chemosphere.
262, 127723.
Biodiversity and extinction accounting for sustainable development: a systematic literature review and future research directions Roberts, L., Hassan, A., Elamer, A.
& Nandy, M., 31 Jan 2021, In: Business Strategy and the Environment.
30, 1, p.
705-720 16 p.
Corporate accountability towards species extinction protection: insights from ecologically forward-thinking companies Roberts, L., Nandy, M., Hassan, A., Lodh, S.
& Elamer, A., 15 Feb 2021, (Accepted/In press) In: Journal of Business Ethics.
CSR implication and disclosure in higher education: uncovered points.
Results from a systematic literature review and agenda for future research Adhikariparajuli, M., Hassan, A.
& Siboni, B., 7 Jan 2021, In: Sustainability.
13, 2, 23 p., 525.
Environmental geochemical signature of shale in pollution assessment of trace metals in soil and water in parts of southern Benue Trough, southeastern Nigeria Nganje, T.
N., Adamu, C.
I., Ekwere, A.
S., Ibe, K.
A., Edet, A.
& Hursthouse, A., 1 Mar 2021, (Accepted/In press) In: International Journal of Environmental Analytical Chemistry.
Identifying non-agricultural marginal lands as a route to sustainable bioenergy provision - a review and holistic definition Mellor, P., Lord, R.
A., João, E., Thomas, R.
& Hursthouse, A., 31 Jan 2021, In: Renewable & Sustainable Energy Reviews.
135, 110220.
Sustainability and stakeholder awareness: a case study of a Scottish university Raji, A.
& Hassan, A., 10 Mar 2021, In: Sustainability.
24 p.
Sustainable strategies for improved regulatory compliance within the food-processing sector Fagbohungbe, M.
O., Hursthouse, A.
S., Miller, J., Morrison, G., Stockwell, M.
& McLellan, I., 29 Jan 2021, In: Waste and Resource Management.
12 p.
A hidden community: justifying the inclusion of Roma as an ethnic identity in the 2021 Scottish census Hay, N., Campbell, L., Kowalewska, M., Clark, C., Tammi, L.
& Balogh, B., 11 Dec 2020, In: Critical Romani Studies.
3, 1, p.
46-71 26 p.
Brexit, Europe and othering Van Der Zwet, A., Leith, M.
S., Sim, D.
& Boyle, E., 29 Dec 2020, In: Contemporary Social Science.
15, 5, p.
517-532 16 p.
Brexit and the uncertain future of fisheries policy in the United Kingdom: political and governance challenges
Huggins, C., Connolly, J., McAngus, C.
& van der Zwet, A., 4 Jun 2020, In: Ocean Yearbook Online.
34, 1, p.
20-42 23 p.
Business models and performance impact of incubators: a study of Nigeria Adesanya, A.
A., Harrison, C.
& Simba, A., 2 Jul 2020, (Accepted/In press) In: International Journal of Business and Systems Research.
CSR reporting: a review of research and agenda for future research Khan, M., Hassan, A., Harrison, C.
& Tarbert, H., 14 Jul 2020, In: Management Research Review.
43, 11, p.
1395-1419 25 p.
Entrepreneurial leadership measurement: a multi-dimensional construct Bagheri, A.
& Harrison, C., 20 Jul 2020, In: Journal of Small Business and Enterprise Development.
27, 4, p.
659-679 21 p.
Exploring factors relating to extinction disclosures: what motivates companies to report on biodiversity and species protection?
Hassan, A.
M., Roberts, L.
& Atkins, J., 6 Mar 2020, In: Business Strategy and the Environment.
29, 3, p.
1419-1436 18 p.
Income inequality among entrepreneurs in Ondo State, Nigeria Ehinmowo, O., Harrison, C.
& Olutumise, A.
I., 4 Feb 2020, In: International Journal of Business and Globalisation.
24, 1, p.
19-38 20 p.
Potentially toxic elements (PTEs) pollution in surface soils in a typical urban region of south India: an application of health risk assessment and distribution pattern Adimalla, N., Quian, H., Nandan, M.
& Hursthouse, A.
S., 15 Oct 2020, In: Ecotoxicology and Environmental Safety.
203, 10 p., 111055.
Scotland and Brexit: citizenship, identity and belonging Pietka-Nykaza, E.
(ed.), Leith, M.
S.
(ed.) & Clark, C.
(ed.), 17 Aug 2020, In: Scottish Affairs.
293-304 12 p.
Stay or go?
- Roma, Brexit and European freedom of movement Clark, C., 31 Aug 2020, In: Scottish Affairs.
403-418 16 p.
The concentration, distribution and health risk from potentially toxic elements in the soil - plant - water system developed on black shales in SE Nigeria Nganje, T.
N., Edet, A., Cuthbert, S., Adamu, C.
I.
S., 31 May 2020, In: Journal of African Earth Sciences.
165, 30 p., 103806.
The role of the entrepreneurial leader: a study of Nigerian SMEs Omeihe, I., Harrison, C., Simba, A.
& Omeihe, K., 11 Mar 2020, (Accepted/In press) In: International Journal of Entrepreneurship and Small Business.
Voluntary assurance of sustainability reporting: evidence from an emerging economy Hassan, A., Elamer, A.
A., Sobhan, N.
& Fletcher, M., 5 Feb 2020, In: Accounting Research Journal.
33, 2, p.
391-410 20 p.
Decent work: what matters most and who can make a difference?
Gibb, S.
& Ishaq, M., 8 Apr 2020, In: Employee Relations.
42, 4, p.
845-861 17 p.
Fair and decent work in Scotland’s local authorities: evidence and challenges Gibb, S., Ishaq, M., Elliott, I.
& Hussain, A.
M., 6 Feb 2020, In: Public Money & Management.
11 p.
Policies for supporting women entrepreneurs in developing countries: the case of Tanzania Nziku, D.
M.
& Henry, C., 10 Dec 2020, In: Journal of Entrepreneurship and Public Policy.
10, 1, p.
38-58 21 p.
Words and power in conflict - Rwanda under M.R.N.D.
rule Moore, A.
T., 30 Nov 2020, In: Peace and Conflict Studies.
27, 2, 32 p., 5.
The socio-economic and psychosocial impact of COVID-19 pandemic on urban refugees in Uganda Bukuluki, P., Mwenyango, H., Katongole, S.
P., Sidhva, D.
& Palattiyil, G., 10 Jul 2020, In: Social Sciences and Humanities Open .
2, 1, 5 p., 100045.
In conversation with Henry Giroux Jeffery, G.
& McAuliffe, D., 2020, The SAGE Handbook of Critical Pedagogies.
Steinberg, S.
R.
& Down, B.
(eds.).
SAGE Publications , Vol.
Investigating Students’ Support for Learning Experience During COVID-19 & the Way Forward Hassan, A., Alazzeh, D., Leung, D., Sidhva, D.
& Obasi, C., 10 Sep 2020, Paisley: University of the West of Scotland .
20 p.
EU migrant retention and the temporalities of migrant staying: a new conceptual framework Pietka-Nykaza, E., Pemberton, S.
& Hof, H., 26 Jan 2021, (Accepted/In press) In: Comparative Migration Studies.
James Town and Slavery: A Virtual Walking Tour Collins, S.
K., 1 Jun 2020
DigiCAP: towards digitalization for empowerment and capacity building of handcraft developments in Sub-Saharan Africa Marzano, A., Viza, E.
& Cano, M., 13 Jun 2020, In: Procedia CIRP.
88, p.
179-184 6 p.
Name: Dr Dalia Alazzeh Position: Lecturer, School of Business and Creative Industries Email: dalia.alazzeh@uws.ac.uk PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/dalia-alazzeh
Name: Dr Kalyan Bhandari Position: Lecturer, School of Business and Creative Industries Email: Kalyan.Bhandari@uws.ac.uk PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/kalyan-bhandari
Name: Prof Colin Clark Position: Professor, School of Education and Social Sciences Email: colin.clark@uws.ac.uk PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/colin-clark
Name: Dr Julie Clark Position: Senior Lecturer, School of Education and Social Sciences Email: julie.Clark@uws.ac.uk PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/julie-clark
Name: Dr Stephen Collins Position: Lecturer, School of Business and Creative Industries Email: Stephen.Collins@uws.ac.uk PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/stephen-collins
Name: Dr Karen Cooper Position: Post-doctoral Research Fellow, School of Business and Creative Industries Email: Karen.Cooper@uws.ac.uk PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/karen-cooper
Name: Dr Natalie Dickinson Position: Lecturer, School of Health and Life Sciences Email: Natalie.Dickinson@uws.ac.uk PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/natalie-dickinson
Name: Dr Stephen Gibb Position: Reader, School of Business and Creative Industries Email: Stephen.Gibb@uws.ac.uk PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/stephen-gibb
Name: Dr Abeer Hassan Position: Reader, School of Business and Creative Industries Email: Abeer.Hassan@uws.ac.uk PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/abeer-hassan
Name: Prof Andrew Hursthouse Position: Professor of Environmental Geochemistry, School of Computing, Engineering and Physical Sciences Email: Andrew.Hursthouse@uws.ac.uk PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/andrew-hursthouse
Name: Prof Graham Jeffery Position: Professor, Strategic Hub for Culture and Creativity, School of Business and Creative Industries Email: Graham.Jeffery@uws.ac.uk PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/graham-jeffery
Name: Dr Dina Nziku Position: Lecturer, School of Business and Creative Industries Email: Dina.Nziku@uws.ac.uk PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/dina-nziku​
Name: Dr Emilia Pietka-Nykaza Position: Senior Lecturer, School of Education and Social Sciences Email: Emilia.Pietka-Nykaza@uws.ac.uk PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/emilia-pietka-nykaza
Name: Dr Jo Scott Position: Reader, School of Business and Creative Industries Email: Jo.Collinson-Scott@uws.ac.uk PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/jo-scott
Name: Dr Dina Sidhva Position: Lecturer, School of Education and Social Sciences Email: Dina.Sidhva@uws.ac.uk PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/dina-sidhva Name: Dr Arno van der Zwet Position: Senior Lecturer, School of Education and Social Sciences Email: PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/arno-van-der-zwet
Name: Evdoxia Viza Position: Lecturer, School of Computing, Engineering and Physical Sciences Email: Evi.Viza@uws.ac.uk PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/evdoxia-viza
Name: Dr Catriona Fallow Position: Lecturer in Performance, School of Business and Creative Industries Email: Catriona.Fallow@uws.ac.uk PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/catriona-fallow
Name: Dr Eve Katsouraki, Position: Lecturer in Performance, School of Business and Creative Industries Email: Eve.Katsouraki@uws.ac.uk PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/eve-katsouraki
Name: Dr Henry Bell Position: Senior Lecturer, School of Business and Creative Industries Email: Henry.Bell@uws.ac.uk PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/henry-bell
We are delighted to present the first cohort of our PhD students and the themes of their work in progress.
Higher Population Council of Jordan (Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation) - www.hpc.org.jo
Pesher Business Consulting Ltd.
Nigeria
Universities:
Bath Spa University - www.bathspa.ac.uk
University of Edinburgh - www.ed.ac.uk
IIT Bombay - www.iitb.ac.in
Mount Kenya University - www.mku.ac.ke
Nirmala College for Woman, Coimbatore - www.nirmalacollegeonline.ac.in
Shiv Nadar University, Delhi
Care
Education
Entrepreneurship
Environment
Fragile livelihoods
Gender-based Violence
Infrastructure
Poverty
Refugees in protracted displacement

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/business/creative-media-academy:
UWS Creative Media Academy is one of only 3 such institutions in Scotland to be endorsed as a centre of excellence by Creative Skillset.
Part of the School of Media, Culture and Society, the Academy brings together students, staff and practitioners within the subject groupings of film, television, radio, music, performance, journalism and digital art.
With the creative industries generating £5.8 billion for the Scottish economy and supporting some 60,000 jobs (Evidence on Creative Industries in Scotland - Committees, UK Parliament, 31 March 2023), the Creative Media Academy exists to not only enable our students, graduates and staff to contribute to the sustainability, development and growth of the sector, but also to engage directly with cultural and creative industries through innovative projects and partnerships.
UWS Creative Media Academy offers everything from training opportunities to knowledge transfer, consultancy and equipment and facility hire.
We work with public, private and third sector organisations to develop and deliver innovate creative and cultural projects.
From Virtual Reality projects to builds large-scale interactive and immersive media projects - we can help your company grow.
We offer training in a range of creative media disciplines externally across private, public and third sector companies.
From local television partnerships to creating bespoke education programmes, we can help your company develop.
We offer TV, sound and magazine design facilities, editing suites, sound studios, & two fully equipped TV studios for hire.
We have created novel digital art and  digital third space projects, and 360 degree Virtual reality films.
Professor Nick Higgins is the director of the UWS Creative Media Academy.
Nick is also Professor of Media Practice in UWS's School of Media, Culture and Society.
An award-winning filmmaker, Nick’s practice-based research has resulted in 6 short form and 4 feature length documentaries that have received numerous awards.
Paul Tucker is the deputy director.
Paul is Senior Lecturer in Broadcast Journalism at UWS's School of Media, Culture and Society and is based at our Ayr Campus.
With international experience, Paul is a freelance television producer and director and has worked on a range of TV shows including a BAFTA award winning show.
UWS's Creative Media Academy offers training in a range of creative media disciplines externally across private, public and third sector companies.
Our staff offer a wide range of expertise, including writing press statements, performing in front of a TV camera, interview techniques for radio and television, sports journalism and live commentating.
All training can be arranged at our Ayr and Paisley campuses, at your company premises or where appropriate in our seminar room in Film City.
We have delivered continued professional development in drama and documentary filmmaking, transmedia, music for games, animation, rural innovation with a range of business support activities in Ayrshire and Dumfries and Galloway.
We offer a wide range of professional TV, sound and magazine design facilities, editing suites, sound studios, two fully equipped TV studios and other facilities for hire across our campuses.
These can be for promotional media activities, events, workshops or seminars.
Email Creative Media Academy
Contact:
Creative Media Academy
University of the West of Scotland Ayr Campus University Avenue Ayr, KA8 0SX Scotland, United Kingdom
creativemediaacademy@uws.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/research/research-institutes-centres-groups/social-change-through-law:
Legal research often takes place in a vacuum, disconnected from the outside world.
This Group works to close this gap by using research to address issues which affect the day-to-day lives of those in Scotland and beyond.
The Group will engage in research-led dialogue with the public, policy- and decision-makers to strengthen access to human rights, increase legal protections for equality and diversity, and improve access to justice.
In doing so, it will help place UWS at the forefront of Scotland’s ambitions to be a leader in these areas and to make Scotland a safe and welcoming home for all.
Dr Samuel White
Email address: Samuel.White@uws.ac.uk
School: Business and Creative Industries
At present there are a number of priority areas:
Lecturer in Law Email: Donald.
Buglass@uws.ac.uk PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/donald-buglass
Lecturer in Law Email: Mhairi.Campbell@uws.ac.uk
PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/mhairi-campbell-2
Head of Divisions, Accounting, Finance and Law Email: Carolynn.Gray@uws.ac.uk
PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/carolynn-gray
Senior Lecturer in Accounting Email: Kieran.James@uws.ac.uk PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/kieran-james
Senior Lecturer in Law Email: Colin.MacIntosh@uws.ac.uk PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/colin-macintosh
Lecturer in Law Email: Colin.McFadyen@uws.ac.uk PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/colin-mcfadyen
Lecturer in Law Email: Dale.McFadzean@uws.ac.uk PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/dale-mcfadzean
Lecturer in Law Email: Susannah.Paul@uws.ac.uk PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/susannah-paul
Senior Lecturer in Law Email: Samuel.White@uws.ac.uk PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/samuel-white
PhD Student Email: Denzil.Jonson@uws.ac.uk
PhD Student Email: Banaz.Kamil@uws.ac.uk
PhD Student Email: Nana.Karikari@uws.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/research/research-institutes-centres-groups/social-impact-leadership-and-management:
Social Impact Leadership and Management (SILM) group aims to engage with missions through research enabling change addressing major challenges across wellbeing, empowerment and equality;  and providing solutions that lie beyond the capacity of governments or markets alone.
The need for social impact and ethically informed leaders and managers is growing fast with disruption emerging continuously from multiple social, economic and technological forces.
These missions include theorising and advancing new forms of ethical leadership and management development; developing new systems and models of social care; progressing equality and diversity; changing organisation cultures.
Engaging with these global challenges and missions, and the leadership and management to implement them in work and employment, opens up scope for a breadth and depth of research questions and projects.
With the social context of all work and employment relations being challenged by political, economic, social and technological developments the nature and purpose of leadership and management is being questioned and tested.
This is reflected in the concerns and agendas of stakeholders in organisation, world and employment at the national and international levels.
This is seen in;
Dr Stephen Gibb
Email : Stephen.gibb@uws.ac.uk
Telephone: 0141 848 3358
School : Business and Creative Industries
Social Impact is concerned with the goals of empowering, improving equality and wellbeing promotion, through key actors in organisations, work and employment.
Understanding and enabling the social Impact journey is a growing and integral part of the leadership and management of a wide range of businesses, organisations, institutions and labour/professional and community groups.
Leadership and management embodying and delivering SI are key enablers, in organisations, work and employment; along with governments and communities, of ultimately achieving fairer, wealthier, sustainable and dynamic organisations, economies and societies.
All disciplines in business and management have a role to play in the analysis and enabling of empowering, equality-oriented and  wellbeing promoting relations.
effective, ethical and environmentally responsible and sustainable approaches in the private, public and third sectors.
Together we can generate an evidence-based, systemic, critical and internationally comparative body of knowledge.
Those who get the development of empowering, equality-oriented and  wellbeing promoting relations right, locally and globally, will be best positioned to meet the challenges and opportunities we are encountering.
These will thrive through changing work and employment systems, business environments, organisational processes, collaborations and partnerships.
Probably the most prominent and shared goal of SILM is culture change for fairer, wealthier, dynamic wellbeing economies and thriving societies; at the levels of organisations, sectors and countries.
We currently have staff and PGR active and publishing and developing impact in projects, some of these with cluster leads noted, with potential to ‘spin out’ as and when criteria for a group/center in their own right can be met;
Ethical Theory and practice of leadership and management; Leaders and managers equipped for change within their organisations and societies, to bring about positive social, economic and environmental impact leading to productive and wealthier economies and greater individual and community wellbeing.
Equality, diversity​ and inclusion; Multidisciplinary research spanning the disciplines of sociology, politics, and the wider discipline of business and management incorporating HRM with specific focus on race, religion and gender.
Research on workforce diversity; discrimination and harassment; promotion and career progression; cross cultural management; recruitment and selection; equality laws and regulations; leadership; immigration; integration; and social cohesion.
Fair and Decent work; Progressing FDW is a major local and global challenge , at the heart of employment and social policy in many countries , cities and organizations.
We research experiences, challenges and needs in a variety of sectors as trends towards enabling or eroding FDW emerge are and are encountered.
From how to describe Employer Value Propositions (EVP) to  the attractiveness of social care work for new generations.
Corporate Social Responsibility ; CSR is both critical and pragmatic, concerned with the design and implementation of new solutions that imply conceptual, process, product, or organisational change, which ultimately aim to improve the welfare and wellbeing of individuals and communities.
Care and caring; Care is a major them, from social policy on paid and unpaid care work to prosocial organisational practices in many other sectors and contexts of work and employment.
Perspectives on care and caring include social policy and governance of care systems, prosocial behaviour in the workplace, and feminist ethics of care.
Talent Management/Skills; Work, careers and employment: sustainable and inclusive employment and career systems; women’s work and careers; work and employment in arts and creative industries; low-status work and low-prestige sectors; fair work; informal work and employment; shadow economy; gig work, policy-driven sectors' growth/expansion, social innovation in work, workplace and the labour market.
Arts sectors, cultural and creative industries: cultural leadership and management; arts/cultural SMEs; social arts, measuring social impacts of arts, communicating cultural and social values; arts and imagination; arts and artists in non-performing context.
Core member: Dr Stephen Gibb Name School: BCI PURE Link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/stephen-gibb
Core member: Dr Christian Harrison Name School: BCI PURE Link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/christian-harrison
Core member: Dr Aleksandra Webb Name School: BCI PURE Link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/aleksandra-webb
Core member: Dr Robert Crammond Name School: BCI PURE Link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/robert-crammond
Core member: Dr Shuai Zhang Name School: BCI PURE Link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/shuai-zhang
Core member: Dr Claire English Name School: BCI PURE Link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/claire-english
Core member: Dr Muzamal Khan Name School: BCI PURE Link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/muzammal-khan
Core member: Dr Kae Reynolds Name School: BCI PURE Link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/kae-reynolds Core member: Dr Mohammed Ishaq Name School: BCI PURE Link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/mohammed-ishaq Core member: Prof Heather Tarbert Name School: BCI PURE Link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/heather-tarbert Core member: Dr Eda Ulsa Name School: BCI PURE Link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/eda-ulus
Core member: Prof Anne Hendry Name School: HLS
Core member: Dr Eleni Tzouramani Name School: BCI PURE Link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/eleni-tzouramani
Core member: Dr Andrew Burnett Name School: BCI PURE Link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/andrew-burnett
Core member: Dr Melissa Kerr Name School: BCI PURE Link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/melissa-kerr
Core member: Dr Adebowale Adeshipo Name School: BCI PURE Link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/adebowale-adeshipo
Core member: Dr Silvio Hoffman Name School: BCI PURE Link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/silvio-hofmann
Core member: Ron Livingstone Name School: BCI PURE Link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/ron-livingstone
Core member: Dr Wojciech Kwiatkowski Name School: BCI PURE Link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/wojciech-kwiatkowski
Core member: Sahar Siami Name School: BCI
Core member: Chaman Shrestha Name School: BCI PURE Link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/chaman-shrestha Core member: Mbusiro Chacha Name School: BCI PURE Link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/mbusiro-chacha
Fida Ahmed Mohammed Jumah Al-Kuwar Zoofishan Hyatt Philip Wolki Stella Alhassan Godswill Chilaka Olutomi Olabode Ogogo Ugar Qiaoqiao Zhang Temitope Alonge Olufunke Ogunnaike
Fida Ahmed Adebowale Adeshipo Zoofishan Hyatt Philip Wolki Godswill Chilaka Olutomi Olabode Ogogo Ugar Qiaoqiao Zhang

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/research/research-institutes-centres-groups/transformative-enterprise-research-group-terg:
Through strategic alignment to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals the Transformative Enterprise Research Group (TERG) creates and disseminates impactful research that focuses on the big societal problems of the day and the future offering meaningful and practical solutions to these problems.
TERG is comprised of an exceptional group of academic staff and PhD students with deep, longitudinal experience of working with real businesses and with our multi-award winning model of enterprise education.
TERG is ideally placed to make a transformative contribution to knowledge, practice and policy leading to a paradigm shift in the field of enterprise education.
Dr Alan Murray Email : alan.murray@uws.ac.uk Tel : 0141 848 3000
Dr Robert Crammond Email : robert.crammond@uws.ac.uk Tel : 0141 848 3000
Name : Dr Alan Murray Group Position : Group Lead & Thematic Lead: SME Start-up, Sustainability & Growth Position : Reader in Enterprise Email : alan.murray@uws.ac.uk Tel : 0141 848 3000 PURE profile link : https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/alan-murray/publications/
Name : Dr Robert Crammond Group Position : Co-lead & Thematic Lead: Enterprise Policy Position : Senior Lecturer in Enterprise Email : robert.crammond@uws.ac.uk Tel : 0141 848 3000 PURE profile link : https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/robert-crammond
Name : Ibiyemi Omeihe Group Position : Co-lead & Thematic Lead: Entrepreneurial Practice & Skills Position : Lecturer in Enterprise Email : ibiyemi.omeihe@uws.ac.uk Tel : 0141 848 3000 PURE profile link : https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/ibiyemi-omeihe-2
Name : Dr King Omeihe Group Position : Co-lead Engagement and Impact Position : Senior Lecturer in Marketing and Entrepreneurship Email : king.omeihe@uws.ac.uk Pure Profile : https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/king-omeihe
(19/24) This working paper explores the intersection of neurodivergence and financial exclusion by focusing on the systemic barriers that individuals and businesses face.
(18/24) This paper examines the role of strategic sensitivity in organisational agility and its importance in responding to early signs of change in the environment.
(17/24) This paper explores the resurgence of the Four-Day Working Week and its potential for transforming the UK public sector.
(16/24) The purpose of this paper is to examine the current state of electric vehicles (EVs) in the UK in line with the government's Net Zero roadmap.
(15/24) This research explores the impact of remote working on happiness, motivation, and productivity within an organisation, using Nexus College as a case study.
(14/24) This working paper explores the relationship between faith, reciprocity, and guilt in shaping the prosocial behaviours of micro-entrepreneurs, particularly within the context of Islamic teachings.
(10/24) This present working paper explores the state of the current economic context in the post-pandemic era, which has been marked by rising inflation and diminished government support, especially as communities strive for sustainable growth.
(07/24) This working paper explores the changing roles of university lecturers, who are expected to act as intrapreneurs within their institutions.
(06/24) This working paper outlines a prescribed, phased methodology, which shall be of benefit to a range of stakeholders, chiefly within the HE sector and amongst EE educators and researchers.
(05/24) This working paper is part of developmental research conducted in 2021 for the EntreUnity (Entrepreneurial University Network) project, an Initiative for Innovation Capacity Building in Higher Education.
(04/24) The purpose of this working paper is to promote the revival of autoethnographic examinations of entrepreneurial support and how it can be used to enhance food security.
(01/23) This working paper outlines the case for the Accelerated Research Methodology (ARM), as well as suggestions for how it can pave the way for seamless integration between academic and business knowledge.
Its purpose is to reduce research production time and optimise efficiency and resource utilisation.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/research/research-institutes-centres-groups/artificial-intelligent-visual-communications-and-networks:
Artificial Intelligence, Visual Communications and Networks (AVCN) research institute at UWS is one of the strongest research institutes in the whole university in terms of research outcomes, patents/IPRs, and income generation.
The AVCN research institute at the UWS has grown to a hub of cutting-edge research for AI, IoT and Big Data, 5G Networks and Visual Communications.
It has 7 academic staff and many PhD students, postdoctoral fellows and KTP associates.
AVCN has a proven track record of leading national/international projects from EU, UKRI, InnovateUK, SFC, SICs and industries.
It has its own cloud infrastructure, 5G network, and a complete mid-size data institute designed to carry out computational experimentation in the field of Big Data, Cloud Computing, Data Security and Privacy.
AVCN staff have over 500 peer-reviewed publications in international journals, conferences and books.
The contributions have been officially recognised through a number of research and enterprise awards.
Name: Professor Naeem Ramzan Email address: Naeem.Ramzan@uws.ac.uk Telephone: +44 141 848 3648 School: School of Computing, Engineering and Physical Sciences
Name: Professor Keshav Dahal Email address: Keshav.dahal@uws.ac.uk Telephone: +44 141 848 3305 School: School of Computing, Engineering and Physical Sciences
AVCN has established expertise with significant research outcomes in the following areas:
Applied AI
Machine/Deep Learning
Big data & Data Analytics
5G and Beyond Networks
IoTs, Sensor Network, Cloud Computing
Blockchain Technology
Video & Image Compression & Transmission
Cyber and Network Security
Intelligent Decision Support Systems
Scheduling, Optimization & Logistics Management
Connected and Remote Healthcare
Public Safety and Security
SMART Environment
EU Erasmus+ , eACCESS – EU-Asia Collaboration for aCcessible Education in Smart Power Systems (eACCESS), Total fund Euro 1 million (Euro 156k for UWS activities), 2020-2024.
https://eaccess-edu.eu/
EU Erasmus+ , SUNSpACe – SUstainable developmeNt Smart Agriculture Capacity, Total fund Euro 1 million (Euro 164k for UWS activities), 2019-2022.
http://sunspace.farm/
EU Erasmus+ “ATHIKA- Advanced Technologies in Health Innovation”, 200k for UWS activities, 2019-2022.
https://athika.eu/
EU H2020, “SliceNet– End-to-End Cognitive Network Slicing and Slice Management Framework in Virtualised Multi-Domain, Multi-Tenant 5G Networks” , funded under H2020-ICT-2016-2 call, Euro 700k for UWS activities, 2017-2020.
https://slicenet.eu/
InnovateUK, Newton Fund , Personalised Service Assistant for Journey Planner, £60k for UWS activities, 2018-2020.
EU Erasmus Mundus Project “SmartLink”, Project coordinator for the consortium of 25 EU and South Asian university partners, Euro 695k for UWS activities, 2014-2019.
EU Erasmus Mundus Project “gLINK”, Partner in the consortium of 18 partners, Euro 246k for UWS activities, (2014-2019), http://www.glink-edu.eu/
EU H2020, “SELFNET – Framework for Self-organized Network Management in Virtualized and Software Defined Networks” , funded under H2020-ICT-2014-2 call, Euro 700k for UWS activities, 2015-2018.
GCRF (Global Challenges Research Fund) “NetDiploma project”, Networking project with Northumbria University funded by the Arts & Humanities Research Council (AHRC), 2018-2020.
EU Erasmusplus , UK- Algeria Advanced Computing Framework, Euro 163k, 2017-2018.
Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) project , “Developing intelligent applications for confectionary business”, with Golden Casket Group Ltd and InnovateUK, £173k, 2019-2021.
https://goldencasket.co.uk/
Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) project , “Developing intelligent system for luxury chauffeur services”, with Little’s Ltd and InnovateUK, £183k, 2019-2021.
https://littles.co.uk/
KTP project , “Eye Tracking: Predicting a viewer’s likely response to digital advert” with Lumen, £240k, 2017-2019
KTP project , To embed machine learning expertise and develop the next generation of digital content management platform, funded by Innovate UK with MODO Systems Ltd., £165k, 2018-2021
KTP Project , Maintenance monitoring capabilities.
Funded by the Innovate UK and Hart Lifts Ltd £185,000, 2019-2022.
KTP Project , To embed IoT and machine learning capabilities for developing air quality monitoring framework for large scale deployment.
Funded by the Innovate UK and BRS Technology £185,000, 2019-2021.
Fundacion Seneca , “Cognitive Management of Identities for Muti-tenant 5G Networks”, funded under National Programme for Research Talent and their employability call, Euro 68k for Fellowship Holder, 2019-2021
Innovation Centre for Sensor and Imaging Systems (CENSIS), UK, and Thales UK, "Smart Unmanned Aerial System for Real-Time Object Detection", in collaboration with Police Scotland, UK, funded under CENSIS open call, £100k for UWS activities, 2018-2019.
Cancer research UK , “Audio technology to detect lung cancer earlier” £40k, 2017-19
Scottish Funding Council , “Utilizing Social Media Trends to Proactively Prevent Cyberattack”, funded under PhD Studentship, £55,000, 2016-2019
Zayed University , “Privacy-aware Data Curation for IoT Devices”, funded under RIF, £14k for UWS activities, 2016-2019
AI enabled coverage hole detection for wireless networks, funded under VP Strategic fund matched with BT, £96k, 2018-2021
CSI “Emotional Gym: Interactive Bike, Lorretto housing”, Wheatley Group, £50k, 2017-2019
Digital Health Institute “Smartcough”, funded with 90k£ (2015-2018).
With University of Edinburgh, Cirrus Logic (former Wolfson Microelectronics), and CHSS.
Energy technology Partnership (ETP), “Validation of advanced control and protection solutions for active integration of renewables through high fidelity hardware-in-the-loop simulation, with Strathclyde University, 2015-2018
Name: Professor Keshav Dahal Position: Leader of the AVCN Research Centre and Professor in Intelligent Systems Email: Keshav.dahal@uws.ac.uk Tel: +44 141 848 3305 PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/keshav-dahal
Name: Professor Qi Wang Position: Professor in Computer Networking Email: Qi.Wang@uws.ac.uk Tel: +44 141 848 3945 PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/qi-wang
Name: Professor Jose M.
Alcaraz-Calero Position: Professor in Networks Email: Jose.Alcaraz-Calero@uws.ac.uk Tel: +44 141 848 3419 PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/jose-alcaraz-calero
Name: Professor Naeem Ramzan Position: Professor in Visual Communications Email: Naeem.Ramzan@uws.ac.uk Tel: PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/naeem-ramzan
Name: Professor Zeeshan Pervez Position: Professor in Web Technology Email: Zeeshan.Pervez@uws.ac.uk Tel: +44 141 848 3183 PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/zeeshan-pervez
Name: Dr.
Muhammad Zeeshan Shakir Position: Reader in Networks Email: Muhammad.Shakir@uws.ac.uk Tel: +44 141 848 3420 PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/muhammad-zeeshan-shakir-shakir
Santiago Matalonga Position: Lecturer in Software Engineering Email: Santiago.Matalonga@uws.ac.uk Tel: +44 141 849 4341 PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/santiago-matalonga-motta
Professor Henry Wang
Professor Abbes Amira
Professor Christopher Grecos
Dr Pablo Casaseca
Dr Chunbo Luo
CENSIS - Innovation Centre for Sensing, Imaging and Internet of Things (IoT) technologies
Data Lab - Innovation Centre for data and AI
Digital Health & Care Institute
National Air Traffic Systems (NATS)
Police Scotland
MODO Systems Ltd
BRS Technology Ltd
Golden Casket Group
Little's Chauffeur Drive Ltd
Hart Lifts Ltd
Wheatley Care
Partner logos
Scottish Funding Council
Knowledge Transfer Partnerships
British Council
Qatar Foundation
European Commission
EPSRC
UKRC

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/research/research-institutes-centres-groups/institute-of-thin-films-sensors-imaging:
Below are highlights of the Thin Films, Sensors & Imaging research institute.
For in depth information including full academic profiles, publications and activities, visit our research portal.
The Institute of Thin Films, Sensors & Imaging (ITFSI) is a centre of excellence and key laboratory in the UK for research, development, undergraduate/ postgraduate teaching and commercialisation of functional thin films, deposition processes, as well as characterisation and dissemination of information on thin film technologies and applications.
ITFSI is by its nature multi and inter-disciplinary, requiring expertise in optical physics, material science and extensive knowledge of deposited film properties, reflected in the diverse range of experience provided by institute members.
ITFSI research is industry informed through extensive collaborative projects across a wide range of applications.
ITFSI has produced two company spinouts, commercialising ITFSI research in thin film ultrasonic transducers ( Novosound Ltd ) and ultra-low power consumption photonic based gas sensors ( AlbaSense Ltd) .
Over a four year period the institute has been directly responsible for five Knowledge Transfer Partnerships.
Director : Professor Des Gibson University of the West of Scotland Paisley PA1 2BE United Kingdom Tel: +44 (0)141 848 3610 Email: des.gibson@uws.ac.uk
Business Development Manager : Lorraine Dymond University of the West of Scotland Paisley PA1 2BE United Kingdom Tel: +44 (0)141 848 3918 Email: lorraine.dymond@uws.ac.uk
Research interests include gravitational wave research, plasma sources, plasma assisted deposition of thin films, spectral thin film filters for non-dispersive infrared (NDIR) gas sensors, optical design of NDIR sensors and graphene material formation.
Development of novel thin film deposition technology based on microwave plasma assisted sputtering (MPAS) and patented processes.
The theme will build on previous KTP (Semefab, Teer Coatings), STFC (gravitational waves), CENSIS, Horizon 2020, InnovateUK, commercial research contracts (Gasclip Technologies Inc) and Royal Academy of Engineering funded projects.
Research interests include optical coatings for gravitational wave detection, nanomaterials and metamaterials for S urface E nhanced R esonance S pectroscopy and micro-antenna applications, .
Linear variable filter design and deposition and applications in miniaturized spectrometers and hyperspectral imaging.
This research theme is multidisciplinary including modelling, physics and computing (Artificial Intelligence) for optical device development, data acquisition, data and image analysis, object recognition, etc.The work is supported by the unique ITFSI deposition equipment..
These systems can provide techniques to produce LVFs at low cost, large batch production and with high quality.
Currently ITFSI has developed a wide range of LVFs: Visible, near IR, Mid IR and Far IR, commercialised via Albasense Ltd.
with previous InnovateUK, CENSIS and KTP funded research projects covered applications in agriculture, medical and detection of volatile organic compounds.
This research theme focuses on the study of new advanced materials and nanostructures for the development of energy systems and self-powered sensing platforms.
The theme includes the synthesis and characterisation of semiconductor thin films, 2D materials and nanowires, exhibiting high performance energy harvesting features and high energy/power density properties.
Modelling and simulation of energy materials is also a key pilar of this theme.
Moreover, the theme comprises the design and fabrication of self-power pack systems (SPPS) through the utilisation of power management circuits to integrate both energy harvesting and storing devices in an all-in-one platform.
Research in semiconductor photodetectors and light sources operating in the mid-infrared region between 3 and 6 microns.
The primary focus of the work is to maximize the quantum efficiency of the materials for enhanced responsivity and detectivity.
The semiconductors will require carefully engineered layers and electrode designs for use in low-noise amplifier circuits in gas sensors.
High performance, with excellent reliability and repeatability including low-cost is the main goal of this work.
Innovative packaging and assembly methods will also be investigated.
Institute of Thin Films, Sensors & Imaging Funding – Last Three Year Key Project Summaries
Total - £3,680,341 (does not include ITFSI spinout Albasense Ltd production revenue marked * in following list)
Project breakdown/ PI provided as follows -
Name : Prof Des Gibson Position : Director ITFSI ; founder/ CEO Albasense Ltd spinout Email : des.gibson@uws.ac.uk Tel : 0141 848 3610 PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/des-gibson Orcid profile link: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-2851-0072 Des Gibson google scholar: ‪Des Gibson - ‪Google Scholar
Name : Dr Shigeng Song Position : Reader Email : Shigeng.song@uws.ac.uk PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/shigeng-song
Name : Dr David Hutson Position : Lecturer Email : Shigeng.song@uws.ac.uk PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/david-hutson
Gasclip Technologies Inc - www.gascliptech.com
Teer Coatings Ltd - www.teercoatings.co.uk
Semefab Ltd - www.semefab.co.uk
Albasense Ltd - www.albasense.com
Novosound Ltd - www.novosound.net
Helia Photonics Ltd - www.helia-photonics.com
Gooch & Housego plc - www.gandh.com
See Orcid profile for research publications listing.
FACILITIES & CAPABILITIES BROCHURE

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/research/research-institutes-centres-groups/institute-for-sustainable-engineering-and-energy-isee:
The mission of the Institute for Sustainable Engineering and Energy (ISEE) is to conduct research and engage in public and commercial activity around sustainable engineering and energy (SEE), as well as allied areas which will deliver to society value and positive impact.
This core research direction for ISEE is challenge-led and, therefore, strategically aligned to the global challenges of our time.
This allows ISEE to carve out niche areas to seize and occupy the white space of the new underpinning science and technology.
Ultimately, the distinctiveness of ISEE’s signature research portfolio guarantees the sustained momentum needed to develop world leading competences.
ISEE’s vision is to hold a prominent position on the global stage as the foremost agenda setting and policy influencing body for SEE science and technology.
Its very distinctiveness and groundbreaking capabilities make it the partner of choice for both academia and industry alike, facilitating and directing research in the field at both fundamental and applied levels.
Email address: ceps-research@uws.ac.uk School: Computing, Engineering & Physical Sciences
By tackling current and future global engineering and energy challenges, ISEE provides the new knowledge and practice needed to transition engineering and energy to more sustainable levels in a just manner for all.
Sector differentiation through delivery of niche, hard to reach research impact.
Consistent discovery of novel science, subsequent technology development and modern research-informed social policy pathways
Driving sustainable growth to the benefit of the UK’s economy and its people
https://www.east-ayrshire.gov.uk/Home.aspx
https://www.etp-scotland.ac.uk/
https://www.shfca.org.uk/

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/research/research-institutes-centres-groups/digital-connectivity-innovation-centre:
The Digital Connectivity & Innovation Centre (DCIC) at University of the West of Scotland’s Ayr Campus is an innovation hub focused on 5G and future digital connectivity solutions.
It was established with £1 million in funding from the Ayrshire 5G Innovation Region (A5GIR) project, which is part of the £38 million Innovation Regions programme funded by the UK Department for Science, Innovation and Technology (DSIT) .
Supporting the Ayrshire Regional Economic Strategy, DCIC plays a key role in advancing next-generation connectivity and strengthening the aerospace sector and 5G/6G research.
A key focus is the creation of a wireless factory of the future within the Prestwick Aerospace Cluster, demonstrating the transformative potential of 5G in engineering and manufacturing.
The Centre is part of the Artificial Intelligence, Visual Communications and Networks (AVCN) research institute.
The Digital Connectivity & Innovation Centre is set to supercharge digital innovation in Scotland and beyond.
Watch the video to discover how this cutting-edge hub is helping shape the 5G-powered world of tomorrow.
Professor Muhammad Zeeshan Shakir, Director of DCIC
Digital Connectivity & Innovation Centre (DCIC) Room 4.030 to 4.031 Ayr Campus, University Avenue, Ayr, KA8 0SX Email: dcic@uws.ac.uk
The Digital Connectivity & Innovation Centre (DCIC) is equipped with state-of-the-art 5G Mobile Private Network (MPN), Open Radio Access Network (ORAN), IoT, and AI-driven connectivity solutions, enabling businesses and researchers to explore the future of digital connectivity.
It offers:
A dedicated and secure private 5G network designed for enterprises, ensuring seamless connectivity, high reliability, and zero interference from public networks.
Ideal for industries requiring real-time data processing, automation, and IoT integration.
An open-source, software-defined Radio Access Network (RAN) that enhances flexibility, innovation, and interoperability in 5G deployments.
Designed to support custom and experimental implementations, Open RAN enables research and industry-specific solutions.
This is a free learning opportunity for business from all sectors to gain insights into 5G technologies and their real-world applications, learn from industry and academic experts about emerging digital innovations, and understand how your organisation can benefit from 5G adoption.
The DAP is an initiative under the Ayrshire Digital Economy Ecosystem (ADEE), building on the momentum of the Ayrshire 5G Innovation Region (5GIR) project.
Contact us now at adee@uws.ac.uk to sign up and get enrolment instructions to access the platform.
1 million boost to drive digital-innovation
5GIR Ayrshire (YouTube)

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/research/research-institutes-centres-groups/nuclear-physics-research-group:
The UWS Nuclear Physics Research Group has been established for almost 30 years.
Our research has traditionally been focussed on the study of the structure and properties of exotic atomic nuclei using gamma-ray and charged-particle spectroscopy.
Our research is typically conducted at overseas nuclear-physics laboratories such as JYFL in Finland, Argonne National Laboratory in the USA, ISOLDE at CERN, and TRIUMF in Vancouver.
We are leading programmes in a number of different areas of nuclear physics at these laboratories.
We are members of SUPA, the Scottish Universities Physics Alliance, within which we are leading nuclear physics experiments at the new SCAPA facility – the Scottish Centre for the Application of Plasma-based accelerators.
Our research has traditionally been fundamental in nature, studying the structure and properties of atomic nuclei, but we are developing themes of research in areas of applied nuclear physics, with the intention of developing impact to society, industry and the economy.
Our research has been continuously funded by research councils (EPSRC and STFC) for almost 30 years.
We are presently funded by an STFC Consolidated Grant and an STFC Project Grant (AGATA).
Octupole correlations in nuclei
The nuclear dipole response
Study of neutrin-rich nuclei using binary grazing reactions
High resolution beta-decay stiudies
The measurement of lifetimes of nuclear states
Neutron-proton interactions
Exoic proton-rich nuclei above Sn100
Nuclear astrophysics
AGATA - the Advanced Gamma Tracking Spectrometer
Research with SCAPA
Detector development
One of our areas of research is the study of nuclei with strong octupole correlations which leads to the nucleus having a reflection asymmetric shape, often said to be a “pear shape”.
The atomic nucleus is often considered to be a spherical ball of strongly interacting neutrons and protons, but this is not always the case.
Nuclei can take on different shapes depending on the different interactions between the constituent nucleons.
The first deformed nuclei that were identified were prolate, shaped like a rugby ball.
These nuclei were identified by their large electric quadrupole moments, and their tendency for form collective rotational states - a mode of excitation that is quantum mechanically not possible for a spherical nucleus.
Some nuclei were also identified to be oblate, shaped like a pumpkin or a squashed sphere.
A more novel shape is that of a “pear shape” in which the nucleus takes on a reflection-asymmetric shape with axial symmetry but with one end being more pointed than the other end like a pear.
Suggestions of this shape first came from alpha-decay experiments in the 1950s where low-lying negative-parity states were explained by the existence of octupole correlations.
Since then, there have been a number of theoretical and experimental studies of octupole-deformed shapes.
There are a number of spectroscopic characteristics which are associated with strong octupole correlations in nuclei.
The pear-shaped nucleus gives rise to a displacement of the centre of mass and the centre of charge in the nucleus which leads to a large intrinsic electric dipole (E1) moment.
This is apparent experimentally in the form of strong electric-dipole transitions between positive- and negative-parity states.
In many octupole deformed nuclei, rotational like bands of negative-parity states are often built on the low, lying negative parity states.
Octupole-deformed shapes are therefore characterized by rotational-like bands of positive and negative parity states connected by strong E1 transitions.
The octupole-deformed shape will also have a large electric-octupole (E3) moment which can be measured in certain types of experiments.
The strongest octupole corelations, and therefore the most pronounced reflection-asymmetric shapes in nuclei, are found in four regions of the nuclei chart.
These regions are related to the so-called octupole magic numbers which correspond to regions where pairs of orbitals with the correct properties come close enough together to interact.
These nucleon numbers are 134, 90, 56, and 34.
The main regions of octupole correlations are nuclei near 224 Th (Z=90, N=134), near 146 Ba (Z=56, N=90) and near 112 Ba (Z=56, N=56).
We have ongoing research programmes studying nuclei in these regions.
For example, we have recently led experiments studying the excited states of the nuclei 222 Th and 224 U at Argonne National Laboratory and at the JYFL Laboratory.
We are also leading a programme of Coulomb-excitation measurements with radioactive-ion beams studying Ra (Z=88), Rn (Z=86) and Ba (Z=56) nuclei at the REX-ISOLDE facility with Miniball.
We also have an ongoing programme studying the very neutron-deficient nuclei in the A=120 region, which includes the study of octupole correlations heading towards 112 Ba (Z=56, N=56).
We are planning to continue this theme of research with experiments at JYFL and at Argonne, and also at future facilities such as FRIB and SPES.
The Galileo gamma-ray spectrometer which was used in our experiment to study radium-218
Binary grazing and deep-inelastic reactions have been used extensively during the last few decades in studies of the structure of neutron-rich nuclei over a wide range of nuclear masses.
The coupling of large solid-angle magnetic spectrometers for the detection of ejectiles to large arrays of Ge γ-ray detectors has represented a very significant experimental advance over earlier experiments with no ejectile identification.
Recent work at the INFN Legnaro National Laboratory has used binary grazing reactions initiated by a beam of 235-MeV 36 S ions incident on a 208 Pb target to study neutron-rich nuclei in the sdpf shell.
The PRISMA magnetic spectrometer was used to detect and identify projectile-like ions and coincident gamma rays were detected by Ge detector arrays; the CLARA array of escape-suppressed Ge detectors was used in a spectroscopy experiment whereas the AGATA γ-ray tracking array was employed in lifetime measurements with the recoil distance method.
Published works from the experiments have involved studies of the neutron-rich isotopes 33 Si, 36 Si, 34 P, 35 P, 36 P, 37 P, 38 P, 37 S, 39 S, 40 S, 41 S, and 38 Cl.
The studies were mainly concerned with the role of negative-parity intruder orbitals in the structure of neutron-rich nuclei on the periphery of the island of inversion, which is centred on 32 Mg, and on the description of such nuclei using state-of-the-art shell-model calculations.
The PRISMA and CLARA spectrometers at the INFN Legnaro National Laboratory
The Gamma Ray Infrastructure for Fundamental Investigations of Nuclei (GRIFFIN) spectrometer is located in the low-energy ISAC-I experimental hall at the TRIUMF facility in Vancouver, Canada.
GRIFFIN incorporates 16 Compton-suppressed high-purity germanium Clover gamma-ray detectors with an efficiency of around 10% at 1 MeV.
Several ancillary detector systems can be used with GRIFFIN including PACES (Pentagonal Array for Conversion Electron Spectroscopy) and up to 8 lanthanum-bromide [LaBr3(Ce)] detectors.
All detector systems are coupled to a triggerless, high-throughput digital data acquisition system.
GRIFFIN is uniquely placed to exploit the high-intensity radioactive ion beams provided by the TRIUMF-ISAC facility.
The ability to detect very weak gamma-ray transitions at high resolution makes it particularly useful in elucidating the structure of nuclei populated in beta decay.
High-energy transitions approaching the beta-decay Q-value may be observed.
Both gamma and beta-decay branching ratios can be measured with high precision, providing constraints (for example) on the angular momentum of excited nuclear states.
GRIFFIN is ideal for studying ‘superallowed’ (Fermi) beta decays through measurements of ground state to ground state 0+0+ beta transitions, offering insight regarding the Cabibo-Kobayashi-Maskawa (CKM) matrix and the coupling amplitudes between different quark flavours.
Members of the UWS Nuclear Physics Research group are leading efforts to explore the structure of heavy actinide nuclei with GRIFFIN, including radium (Z=88) and thorium (Z=90) isotopes, many of which are proposed to exhibit highly collective, reflection-asymmetric octupole shapes near their ground state.
The intensity of actinide beams available at the TRIUMF-ISAC facility are among the highest globally.
GRIFFIN may be used together with PACES to recover the intensity of highly-converted nuclear de-excitations.
Combined with information regarding the lifetimes of nuclear-excited states from the LaBr3(Ce) detectors, a comprehensive picture of the nucleus emerges.
The nuclear dipole response has an electric and a magnetic part.
Both contributors exhibit a variety of features with a multitude of implications, such as the violation of fundamental symmetries, extreme astrophysical objects such as neutron stars, the synthesis of heavy elements, or the dynamics of supernova type-II explosions.
The electric dipole response (E1R) can be classified in low-lying quadrupole-octupole coupled excitations, which are particular interesting if the nucleus has quadrupole but also (so far established in less than a handful of cases) octupole correlations in its ground state.
The E1R is dominated by the Giant Dipole Resonance (GDR) at comparably high excitation energy beyond the particle thresholds.
On the GDR’s low-energy tail near the proton and neutron evaporation threshold a less strong additional enhancement of E1 strength is found.
This, so called Pygmy Dipole Resonance (PDR) is often visualized as an out-of-phase motion of a neutron skin formed by excess neutrons and an isospin saturated core composed of an almost equal number of protons and neutrons.
This mode provides an additional wide-open doorway in particle-capture reactions in astrophysical scenarios as the slow and rapid neutron capture processes.
Furthermore, the skin picture of ‘pure’ neutron matter suggests connections via the symmetry energy, which enters the nuclear Equation-of-State, to neutron stars.
The magnetic dipole response splits into the scissors resonance near 3 MeV and the Gamow-Teller Resonances near the particle threshold.
The latter has strong implications for beta decay probabilities and even more so neutrino-nucleus scattering cross sections.
The latter are deemed to be the mechanism driving the explosion of type-II Supernova.
Our group has become interested to benchmark these excitations in nuclei with equal proton and neutron number.
For example, in the case of the PDR, this allows to disentangle shell effects (in our nuclei) from neutron-skin+shell effects in more neutron rich nuclei.
We have an ongoing experimental program for the lightest stable Ni isotopes 58 and 60 and aim to investigate 24-Mg and 28-Si.
As experimental tools we use the scattering of real photons, bremsstrahlung for the excitation strength and fully-polarized laser-Compton backscattered photons to assign the E1 or M1 character.
Furthermore, we employ inelastic alpha-particle scattering experiments to assign an isospin character to the observed E1 excited levels.
Recently, our group has proposed to use high-Q value beta decay of mothers with a low ground state spin to gain an alternative insight in the levels of the PDR.
In a first campaign we were able demonstrate that the PDR plays even a role in reactor physics.
many-body system made of tens or hundreds of protons and neutrons, is an excellent laboratory with which to test quantum physics.
A consistent description of atomic nuclei, from first principles, across the entire periodic table is still unavailable.
There exists, however, a large number of successful models which can be employed to describe specific behaviour in nuclei such as collective or non-collective motion.
Experimental nuclear physics looks to measure certain key observables with which to test these models with the aim of improving the models which will ultimately lead to a more consistent description of all observed behaviour.
One such key observable is the excitation energy of the quantised excited states of the nucleus.
These are typically obtained from measurements of gamma radiation emitted as the excited nucleus decays towards the ground state.
Another, perhaps more stringent, test of nuclear models is obtained by measuring the quantum mechanical transition matrix elements which reveal the overlap in the wavefunctions of the nuclear states.
The absolute transition matrix elements are obtained through a measurement of the mean lifetime of the nuclear state.
A number of techniques have been developed to measure the mean lifetime of a nuclear level and which technique is employed depends on the timescale over which the nuclear level is expected to decay.
The timescales typically range from femtoseconds (10 -15 s) to milliseconds (10 -3 s).
Members of the nuclear physics group at the University of the West of Scotland (UWS) have been leading efforts to measure nuclear lifetimes using a number of different techniques.
Gamma radiation emitted from fast-moving atomic nuclei produced in nuclear reactions is subject to the Doppler effect which can be utilised to measure the lifetimes of some of the shortest-lived nuclear states.
These experiments are conducted at large international laboratories around the world.
For many nuclear states, it is not possible to measure the mean lifetime using Doppler-based techniques and more direct, electronic techniques are used.
These techniques utilise radiation detectors, which have very fast electronic response to the incident radiation, and state-of-the-art electronics to directly measure the time which elapses between the creation and decay of an excited state.
Such experiments are conducted both in the detector development laboratory at UWS and at international laboratories across the world.
Members of the UWS group have a longstanding interest in the study of the very neutron-deficient nuclei that lie on the nuclear chart just above the doubly magic self-conjugate nucleus 100Sn.
The nucleus 100Sn has 50 neutrons and 50 protons, and the nuclei immediately above 100Sn are spherical or weakly deformed nuclei with level structures corresponding to excitations of individual particles in the g7/2, d5/2, and h11/2 orbitals which lie just above the nucleon number of 50.
The nuclei close to 100Sn such as 102,103,104Sn exhibit clear single-particle behaviour with irregular excitations with relatively high energies.
As more particles are added, collectivity rapidly develops.
Already at A=110-112, the nuclei 110Te and 112Te demonstrate a low-lying single-particle like structure but with rotational-like structures at higher energies and higher angular momenta.
The addition of several more nucleons leads to rotational structures and deformed ground states in nuclei such as 117,1118,119Cs and 118,119,120Ba.
The interplay between the single particle like structures close to 100Sn and the deformed collective rotational structures that develop lead to interesting nuclear structure phenomena.
There are a range of compelling physics motivations to study the nuclei in this region.
For example, the nuclei with similar numbers of neutrons and protons are expected to demonstrate neutron-proton interactions which can be apparent in a number of ways, for example in the behaviour of aligned angular momenta.
Another area of considerable interest is the potential for octupole correlations to develop between particles in the close-lying d5/2 and h11/2 orbitals which have a difference in orbital and total angular momenta of 3 units, and which have opposite parities.
Octupole correlations in this region are expected to be maximized at N=Z=56 in the nucleus 112Ba.
We are conducting a programme of measurements in these nuclei in experiments with the Jurogam spectrometers at the JYFL Laboratory at the University of Jyväskylä in Finland, with Gammasphere at the Argonne National Laboratory in the USA, and with Galileo at the Legnaro National Laboratory in Italy.
In our experiments, we are often exploiting the fact that there is an island of proton and alpha emitters in this region which facilitates the study of these nuclei by the ultra-sensitive technique of recoil-decay tagging.
We have recently studied a number of nuclei using these methods such as 112,113Cs and 111Xe.
We are planning to continue this programme of research with Jurogam-3 and the new MARA vacuum filled separator at the JYFL Laboratory, and with AGATA at Legnaro.
The UWS group is a member of the AGATA collaboration.
AGATA is the Advanced Gamma Tracking Array and is the world’s most powerful and sensitive gamma-ray spectrometers for use in research of the study of nuclear structure and nuclear research.
The AGATA collaboration consists of over 40 different institutions in around 12 different countries.
The construction of AGATA is a large-scale scientific and engineering endeavour which is being realized in phases over a number of years.
When complete, AGATA will consist of 180 high-volume high-purity germanium (HPGe) detectors.
Unlike previous gamma-ray spectrometers, AGATA will forego the use of Compton-suppression shields in favour of the use of gamma-ray tracking.
Instead of vetoing (throwing away) any gamma rays that are scattered out of an HPGe detector and therefore partially detected, any scattered gamma rays in AGATA are scattered into another HPGe detector, and the gamma ray is tracked and reconstructed.
All of the 180 HPGe detectors of AGATA are packed closely together to cover as much of the complete solid angle as possible.
The science reach of AGATA is wide-ranging covering nuclear structure, nuclear reactions, and nuclear astrophysics.
To further broaden the scope of the science that can be achieved, AGATA is operated in campaigns at different laboratories in Europe.
The initial demonstration phase of AGATA too place at the Legnaro National Laboratory in Italy.
It has since been operated in campaigns at GSI (Germany) and at GANIL (France) where it is currently operational.
In late 2021, AGATA will be moved back to the Legnaro National Laboratory in Italy, where it will be operated at first with stable beams from the Tandem-ALPI accelerators, before being used for experiments with the new SPES radioactive-beam facility.
The construction of AGATA is about 50% complete.
A UK collaboration consisting of the University of Liverpool, the University of York, Daresbury Laboratory, and UWS was recently awarded an STFC Project Grant to fund the next UK contribution of the AGATA array.
The UWS group was one of the most active groups in the previous AGATA campaign at Legnaro, leading two experiments, and we anticipate leading a number of experiments with AGATA in the next Legnaro c ampaign beginning in 2022.
The AGATA Demonstrato at Legnaro National Laboratory, front and side view.
This is a new area of research at UWS led by Dr Nara Singh Bondili.
The reactions of interest occur at very high temperatures in astrophysical environments and govern the chemical evolution of the universe.
Currently, our research is focused on reactions involving light nuclei, and we will extend this to medium-mass nuclei.
One of our interests is based on experiments relevant to one of the unsolved open problems - the 7 Li abundance puzzle which describes a disagreement between predictions and observations by a factor of three.
Solving the lithium puzzle is a high priority task in nuclear astrophysics that requires accurate knowledge of the 3 He(a,g) 7 Be reaction rate.
We are planning a programme of experiments on this reaction and similar reactions such as 3 H(a,g) 7 Li.
Our experiments will be conducted at small-scale facilities such as tandem accelerator in Madrid, Spain through the detection of g rays and also at larger-scale facilities such as the DRAGON facility at TRIUMF (Vancouver) through the counting of 7 Be ions.
Our research will also be relevant to neutrinos produced in the sun and has connections to the standard model.
Hydrogen is turned into helium in the sun at temperatures ~6000K.
Several other fusion reactions follow, producing energy that is required to maintain life on earth.
The reactions also produce neutrinos that reach earth, which are detected to study physics beyond the standard model of particle physics.
The 3 He(a,g) 7 Be reaction rate is required to calculate the number of neutrinos that can be detected on earth using the standard solar model and compare it with the observations.
Experiments to measure the cross sections for astrophysical reactions in the hot-pp chain involving light nuclei, especially, carbon nuclei are currently being planned through a high-energy beta detection method that is under development.
Image 1: A chamber used for the fusion reaction in Madrid .
A 4 He beam passing through 3 He gas target produces visible light.
Image 2: The DRAGON separator that is used to identify and count 7 Be after the fusion reaction at TRIUMF.
Throughout the history of nuclear physics, the techniques and apparatus employed to enhance the understanding of the atomic nucleus have found application in diverse fields ranging from medical imaging and border security to the provenance of antiquities.
Members of the nuclear physics group at the University of the West of Scotland have been working successfully with external funding agencies to realise the application of some of the detector technology which has been used as part of their fundamental nuclear physics research programmes.
In recent years, the Royal Society and Medical Research Scotland have both funded the development of detector technology which could be employed in future medical devices.
The Department of Transport has recently funded the construction of a prototype Compton camera system which could be employed at transportation hubs to monitor the movement of radioactive materials.
The Scottish Centre for the Application of Plasma-based Accelerators (SCAPA) is a major research initiative funded by the Scottish Universities Physics Alliance (SUPA) research pool.
Based at the University of Strathclyde, SCAPA is a facility dedicated to the development of next-generation particle accelerator technology.
Using extremely high powered lasers, SCAPA uses the laser wakefield acceleration (LWFA) method to provide beams of high-energy electrons and protons.
These particle beans are being used to solve unique problems within industrial and fundamental physics research programmes.
As a founding member of SUPA, the University of the West of Scotland (UWS) is a stakeholder in the SCAPA facility but members of the nuclear physics group at UWS play a key role in the planning and running of the facility as members of the Management Executive Committee in addition to providing the nuclear physics expertise to the SCAPA staff.
Members of the UWS nuclear physics group are also leading a project to investigate the potential of LWFA in the development of a new modality for the simultaneous treatment and imaging of cancerous tumours within the body.
This project will use the SCAPA facility as the primary laboratory in addition to using other accelerators such as CLEAR at CERN.
Some of our main collaborators are listed below.
We welcome applications from PhD students.
We have a variety of PhD projects in fundamental and applied nuclear physics, and some of our available projects are described in the School of Computing, Engineering, and Physical Sciences PhD Project Catalogue at https://www.uws.ac.uk/study/school-of-ceps-phd-projects/ .
We are happy to provide presentations, seminars, events, or visits related to our research on request.
For more details please contact John.F.Smith@uws.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/research/research-institutes-centres-groups/centre-for-action-against-stalking:
The Centre for Action Against Stalking [International Centre Against Harmful & Abusive Behaviour] [CAAS] is a partnership between University of the West of Scotland (UWS) and the charity Action Against Stalking (AAS).
UWS aims to have a transformational influence on the economic, social and cultural development of the west of Scotland and beyond.
It is placed by Times Higher Education in the top 600 universities in its 2020 World University Rankings and in the top 150 in THE’s Young University Rankings 2020.
The Times/The Sunday Times Good University Guide 2019 ranks UWS as a top 100 UK university and as the highest ranked post-1992 university in Scotland.
Action Against Stalking evolved into a charity following its successful, award-winning campaign Action Scotland Against Stalking, launched in 2009, which saw stalking-specific legislation embedded in Section 39 Criminal Justice and Licensing (Scotland) Act 2010.
AAS quickly became a high impact national and international campaign contributing to some major breakthroughs – most notably the introduction of Stalking into the Council of Europe’s European Convention (Istanbul Treaty ratified in August 2014), the introduction of two new offences of stalking in England and Wales within the Protection of Freedoms Act, 2012 and the introduction of the Victim & Witnesses (Scotland) Act (2014) which recognises stalking victims as vulnerable victims, and entitlement to Justice & Safety as outlined by the SCHR Scotland's National Action Plan for Human Rights.
Collectively these pieces of legislation herald the transformation from a tacit acceptance of what on the surface appears to be slightly annoying behaviour to the recognition that Stalking is a serious form of violence – and a welcome and signal success of the legislation is giving victims a voice and a place within the criminal justice process.
CAAS is a centre of excellence structured around areas of scholarly focus that are critical to the prevention of and responses to stalking in contemporary society.
CAAS seeks to conduct and promote innovative, applied research in a multi-disciplinary, practice - and police-oriented and victim - and experience-based environment.
CAAS is focused on pursuing research funding nationally and internationally to support the growth of knowledge in stalking behaviour and how best to prevent it; to provide leadership and direction in sharing best practice and the setting of national training standards and protocols in this area; to unite an international ‘community of interest’ to promote Masters and Doctoral-level dissertations across the various disciplines where stalking can easily be located as a research theme; and to draw upon research outputs to inform policy development in this area at an organisational, national and international level.
During its first year of operation, in 2021-22, CAAS’s strategic focus is on conducting research and knowledge exchange within the following key thematic areas: The impact of stalking, harmful and abusive behaviour on children and young people; perpetrators’ perspectives – indicators and predictors of stalking and abusive behaviour; and the nature and impact of cyber-stalking.
Given the nature of stalking, an international reach is necessary and valuable for both academics and practitioners and for policy makers.
CAAS actively works in partnership with a wide range of external bodies and universities in Scotland and internationally, on a cross-jurisdictional basis, in order to maximise opportunities to achieve its key aims.
Name:  Professor Ross Deuchar
Email address: ross.deuchar@uws.ac.uk
Telephone: 0141 848 3694
School: School of Education & Social Sciences
The Centre for Action Against Stalking (CAAS) hosted the international conference and summit ‘Dynamics between the Stalker and the Victim’ between Tuesday 20 and Thursday 22 April 2021.
This event formally launched the Centre.
The content of the conference underpinned National Stalking Awareness Week 2021 with each day having separate themes – Understanding Stalkers; Challenges in Investigating and Prosecuting Stalkers; and Stalkers and their Victims.
The Centre for Action Against Stalking is a much needed centre of excellence to compile research which will finally raise a global flag on the heinous crime that is stalking.
Having known and worked with Ann Moulds, Founder and CEO of Action Against Stalking, for many years, I have watched this charity grow to where it is now.
Like many others, those of us with strong passionate voices and real commitment for change, know it doesn’t take an army.
It is going to be interesting to see the future unfold and with the support of this new Centre, for the safety of so many currently being stalked and those who will be victims.
Those of us who have been stalked totally know the value of this research Centre.
Thank you to all involved.
The Centre for Action Against Stalking will be a template for all other nations to emulate.
Thank you to Action Against Stalking, UWS and all conference participants for allowing me the opportunity to present 'iPredator, Cyberstalking, Internet Addiction and Online Victimization' at your 2021 conference.
Stalking is a relatively new concept in criminal law.
Due to the nebulous nature of this unique type of criminality there is currently no overall consensus on how best to define it legally, clinically or academically.
In part this is due to the ongoing, ambiguous, wide-ranging behaviours that constitute the crime, many of which are non-criminal acts.
It is a crime that spans the gamete of a wide range of other serious forms of anti- social behaviour and abuse.
However, despite growing awareness and recognition of this crime over the past decade, up to date empirical research, knowledge and understanding regarding the nature and impact of stalking and the needs of its victims is still rather limited.
Stalkers can be classified into five typologies: rejected, intimacy seeker, incompetent suitor, revengeful and predatory.
This classification of stalkers, developed by Paul Mullen, Michele Pathé and Rosemary Purcell 1999 [1] places the greatest emphasis on the context in which the stalking arose, the stalker’s initial motivation for contacting the victim, what sustains the motivation in terms of the needs and desires the stalking itself satisfies.
It also incorporates the nature of the prior relationship between victim and stalker, the stalker's psychopathology and the stalker's and victim's psychological and social vulnerabilities.
[1] Stalkers and Their Victims | The BMJ www.bmj.com/content/321/7271/1296.2
Whilst it is commonly perceived that most perpetrators of stalking are male and victims female, recent Criminal Justice Survey findings highlight little difference between the number of men being stalked compared to women.
Currently there is a lack of research highlighting the prevalence and impact of male victims of stalking but for ease of understanding stalking is a complex gender-neutral heterogeneous crime, where men stalk women, women stalk men, men stalk other men and women stalk other women.
Whilst the literature on Perpetrator recidivism is severely lacking, anecdotal evidence from victims highlights that legal sanctions alone may be effective in bringing some stalkers permanently to abandon their quest.
Further research is needed to explore the factors that are related to persistence and recurrence in stalking.
Young people and children are particularly vulnerable to being groomed for sexual abuse, exploitation and trafficking.
The grooming can take place online, in person or both – by a stranger or someone they know.
'Stranger Danger' data from UK police forces in 2011-12 found that 42% of all abduction attempts were made by strangers - albeit  that three quarters of the attempts were unsuccessful.
In 2019 PACT (Parents and Abducted Children Together): London, an international non-profit organisation which specialises in fighting international child abduction, stated that non-parental child abductions increased at more than twice the rate of parental abductions between 2017/18 and 2018/19.
Stalking is a pattern of unwanted and persistent behaviour and, when placed within an intimate relationship, it is often underpinned by other menacing psychological methods to control and rule a partner.
Coercion and control is now a legal concept within criminal law.
Coercion may be defined as 'the use of force to persuade someone to do something that they are unwilling to do', whereas control means to dominate, regulate and have full control over another person’s behaviour.
It is not uncommon for stalking to exist during the relationship, and then to continue once the relationship ends.
In other instances the stalking only starts after a relationship ends, where there may be no history of domestic abuse.
The structure of the working environment provides the perfect substrate for stalkers to locate, track and pursue their victim with relative ease.
The problem becomes even more complicated if the stalker is also an employee.
He or she has greater access to the victim and coincidental contacts may be easily arranged by the stalker and the red flags of stalking dangers can be easily overlooked and distinguished from behaviours which are a normal part of working activity.
Stalking that starts within the personal domain can easily enter the workplace, making it a problem for many, while stalking that starts within the workplace can follow the victim outside.
Managers have a duty of care and a responsibility to ensure a safe working environment for all staff and not just the victim.
Being stalked within the workplace means that the workplace is not a safe environment.
With increasing new light on the crime of stalking and its pervasive and chronic nature, organisations need to take into account the implications of existing policies and practice to ensure effective management of stalking cases, the legal implications and duty of care to the victim and other members of staff.
Stalking and its links to exploitation underpins some of the worst form of criminality such as:
human trafficking; exploitation of young people, children and adults into the sex industry; forced marriage; and various forms of financial and identity fraud.
The internet provides these predatory gang stalkers with the perfect medium to cast their nets wider, opening up new markets.
Once suitable victims have been identified, groomed and enslaved into the trafficker’s world , their capturers often use technology to track and monitor their victims with threats of violence for non-compliance.
Other forms of exploitation can happen through the sharing of sexual images being used to as ransom to extrapolate money or sexual favours.
Stalking has become rampant in both the real and the virtual world and, as we know, the use of cyber technology to stalk can be simply an electronic precursor to real-world behaviours.
The internet has provided yet another useful tool in the stalker’s armoury to track, locate and communicate with their victims with relative ease.
Research highlights the majority of stalkers engage in both online and offline behaviours and what can start offline can soon move online and what can start online can soon move online.
Through the development of technological advancement, stalking is more and more crossing national and international boundaries.
Like any business trading in supply to demand, sex trafficking, human trafficking, child exploitation, child abuse and child abduction have become some of the fastest growing criminal enterprises in the world with technology being the perfect conduit.
Whether through research or anecdotal evidence, the effect of stalking on a victim carries a high price emotionally, psychologically, socially and financially, depending on the nature of the stalking and how long it has lasted.
Research states one third of stalking cases [2] will escalate to physical violence which in itself is a significant forensic sample, but it is overshadowed by an even high clinical significant sample highlighting over 50% of stalking victims will go on to develop symptoms of PTSD.
Victims report symptoms of anxiety, low mood, depression, chronic sleep disturbance, excessive tiredness, headaches, suicidal ideation to name but a few [3] .
Research by Mullen et al 1997 [4] reported victims having to make major changes in their social and working lives; for example, changing or leaving employment and, in some cases relocating to a different geographical area.
[2] Reid-Meloy, J.
(ed.) (1998), The Psychology of Stalking: Clinical and Forensic Perspectives.
San Diego, CA: Academic Press.
[3] Mullen, P., Pathé, M.
& Purcell, R.
(2000) Stalkers and their Victims.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
[4] Pathé, M.
& Mullen, P.E.
The impact of stalkers on their victims.
The British Journal of Psychiatry,170: 12-17.
Currently there is little in the way of up to date data on the victim's experience of reporting a stalking incidence to the Police.
This is an area that requires further research.
A collection of research outputs from the University of Salford in 2016 [5] highlighted some of the most common coping strategies employed by victims in an attempt to keep themselves safe and thwart the stalkers' unwanted intrusions.
Some of these coping strategies may to the outside eye appear disproportionate to the non-criminal acts that taken in isolation appear benign and harmless, yet when placed within a stalking context often hold a more sinister meaning.
Victims, in response, often make significant changes to their daily routine and lifestyle to include: avoiding places where their stalkers might be; changing their driving routes to their home; installing CCTV around their home; changing cars or mobile phone numbers; withdrawing from social activities and leisure pursuits; resigning from their job; or, in the case of young people, quitting school, college or university.
Stalkers can also target friends and families placing a greater burden on the victim's responsibility for keep them safe and in doing so the victim may feel they have no alternative but to maintain their distance, leading to social isolation.
It is also not uncommon for the victim's friends and family to feel frustrated in trying to provide long-term support to the victim.
Other studies have highlighted that victims may feel forced to terminate their employment, or in some cases, may lose their jobs as a result of poor performance or due to the stalker’s persistent and often malicious phone calls to their workplace.
In some cases victims have been known to relocate to find a place of safety.
[5] 'No place to hide' : stalking victimisation and its psycho ...
Given that stalking is a relatively new legal concept within criminal law, police responses to stalking and their victims are varied across the UK.
It is here the victim's voice must take centre stage.
This can only be achieved through through research and victim surveys in order to gain the feedback from those who have experienced the crime and experienced the criminal justice system.
Without this research, how can we truly judge whether the time, money and energy which has surely been invested in recent times to make changes to statute, systems, policies and procedures has actually made a difference, and whether that difference is consistent across the system.
One of the biggest issues is the lack of statistical data to establish a baseline reference for a true measurement of the problem.
Whatever the precise stalking rate, it is clear that it is still a crime that is under reported and poorly recognised.
It was only in 2018/19 that the Scottish Criminal Justice Surveys placed stalking within its own specific category.
Up until then, stalking was viewed as an adjunct to crimes of a sexual nature.
An extract from the 2019-20 Scottish Criminal Justice Survey highlighted almost 1 in 8 adults (11%) experienced at least one type of stalking & harassment in the 12 months prior to the survey, with stranger stalking being the most prevalent of the typologies [6]
[6] https://www.gov.scot/news/scottish-crime-and-justice-survey-201920/
The Scottish Criminal Justice Survey 2019-20 found no difference in the proportion of men and women experiencing stalking and harassment in the 12 months prior to the survey (11.4% and 12.1%, respectively).
Looking at the gender split by type of stalking and harassment, more women than men reported being followed (1.1% compared to 0.3%, respectively) or receiving unwanted messages by text, email, messenger or posts on social media sites (9.0% compared to 7.4%, respectively).
Conversely, more men than women reported receiving unwanted letters or cards (3.2% compared to 1.7%, respectively) or unwanted phone calls (8.0% compared to 5.7%, respectively.
You can view our seminars after they take place here.
Check back for the latest events.
Vulnerabilities and Sexual Exploitation During the Pandemic with Ann Moulds, Founder & CEO Action Against Stalking and Fiona McMullen, Operations Manager, ASSIST.
Unrequited Love: Stalking & Harassment within an Ex-Partner Context, with Tricia Bernal [CEO of Protection Against Stalking]; Dr Jane Monckton Smith [Professor of Public Protection]; Dr Rachael Wheatley [Forensic Psychologist, HMPPS, UK]; Hamish Brown MBE [specialist in the offence of stalking and harassment]
Sexting and Cyber-Coercion
Professor Ross Deuchar in conversation with Graham Goulden, former Chief Inspector with the Violence Reduction Unit in Scotland
Detective Mike Proctor, Det.
Retired, President of Duck Works Criminal Consulting, LLC’s Bio.
Graduated with a B.A.
in Geography, a minor in Safety Education, teachable minors in Physical Education & one in Business, from California State University at Long Beach in 1970.
Also has a Lifetime Standard Teaching as well as Community College credential, along with a Texas Commission on Law Enforcement Basic Instructor Proficiency Certificate.
Worked for thirty-three years for the Westminster Police Department, located in Orange County California.
During his tenure at Westminster P.D., he worked uniformed patrol, then wrote the pilot program on School Resource Officers for the Garden Grove Unified School District and then became an S.R.O.
and chief’s administrative aid.
He developed and later participated in the C.S.P.
(Crime Specifics Unit—an undercover investigation team who follows heavy felons until they commit crimes).
He then moved promoted to detectives, and for the majority of his years on the department was a robbery/homicide and predator crimes detective.
While at the Police Department, he received numerous awards and commendations—some of which were officer of the year, detective of the year three times, as well as The Defender of Justice Award given to him by members of the California State Legislature for his continued work on stalking.
In 1991 he began working stalkers.
He is considered one of the pioneers in the investigation of stalking, and stalking threat assessment.
He was one of the commissioners assigned to P.O.S.T.
(Peace Officers Standards and Training) to develop the first known training video and workbook on the topic of stalking.)  He has developed a stalking protocol that is utilized by law enforcement entities both in the United States and Abroad.
He was a consultant on a DOJ grant sponsored by USC (University of Southern California) emphasizing a better approach to handling stalking on college campuses.
(The USC College Consortium Project)
He is a consultant for OVC (Office for Victims of Crime) out of Washington DC., and in Jan.
of 2013 was “Spotlighted” by OVC for his work on stalking and threat assessment.
(In 2016, he completed his evaluation and editing, OVC’s VAT—Victim Advocate Training on the Stalking Training Module.) He is a member of NCVC (National Center for The Victims of Crime), who he also consults for.
In 2011 he was empaneled on the board of The National Stalking Training Academy developed by the Home Office of the United Kingdom.
(Unfortunately, this entity recently lost funding.)
He is regularly quoted in the print media like the Economist and others—most recently two Florida newspapers on different stalking cases, as well as consults for television and radio both in the United States and abroad.
This would include Atlas Media, A & E, BBC America, E-Hollywood, etc.
He has appeared on America’s Most Wanted, Case Closed, CNN, Fox news, a recent consult for Fox was on the Gwyneth Paltrow stalking trial 02/2016, Japanese and Korean television just to name a few.
The most recent interview is for a special regarding celebrity stalkers produced by Buck Productions out of Canada, which is currently airing on Reelz TV.
He also just completed an interview for an Irish television network (Peninsula Media), yet to be aired.
Proctor has written several articles for professional law enforcement journals along with two books designed to assist the victims of stalking, victim advocates, educators, and law enforcement .
How to Stop a Stalker , Prometheus Books in 2003, and his latest Antidote For a Stalker , initially released in December of 2012, re-released in May of 2013 currently on Amazon.
His blog is Stalking Detective’s First Aide For Victims.
He is working on initiating a YouTube Channel, tentatively to be named The Stalking Detective which discusses the stalking phenomenon.
His company, of whom he is President is Duck Works Criminal Consulting, LLC.
He continually consults on ongoing criminal cases, such as threats to college and university staff and current ongoing stalking cases; his most recent a celebrity stalking case in the San Francisco Bay area.
He lectures both in the United States and elsewhere outside of the U.S.; including venues like the 2016 National Coalition for Domestic Violence conference in Chandler AZ., and the state-wide training for The California District Attorneys Association.
He assists states in amending their laws and countries in obtaining same.
His most recent work was in Scotland and Norway.
He can be reached via his website email located on his website, detectivemikeproctor.com .
Detective Proctor is also a longtime member of ATAP (Association of Threat Assessment Professionals.) ATAP is an international organization designed to assist law enforcement, educators, and victim advocates, concerning the issues of stalking, along with a heavy direction towards the area of threat assessment.
It took Julie Macfarlane a lifetime to say the words out loud – the words that finally broke the calm and travelled farther than she could have imagined.
In this clear-eyed account, she confronts her own silence and deeply rooted trauma to chart a remarkable course from sexual abuse victim to agent of change.
Going Public merges the worlds of personal and professional, activism and scholarship.
Drawing upon decades of legal training, Macfarlane decodes the well-worn methods used by church, school, and state to silence survivors, from first reporting to cross-examination to non-disclosure agreements.
At the same time, she lays bare the isolation and exhaustion of going public in her own life, as she takes her abuser to court, challenges her colleagues, and weathers a defamation lawsuit.
The result is far more than a memoir.
It’s a courageous and essential blueprint on how to go toe-to-toe with the powers behind institutional abuse and protectionism.
At long last, Macfarlane’s experiences bring her to the most important realisation of her life: that only she can stand in her own shoes, and only she can stand up and speak about what happened to her.
Dr Lorraine Sheridan is a Chartered Forensic Psychologist and an international expert on stalking and harassment.
She completed Europe's first PhD on stalking and has so far published four books and more than 50 papers on the subject.
Her research has taken an applied, interventionist angle and she frequently trains professionals involved in investigating and managing stalking and other crimes.
She also advises on policy, and has advised a number of governments.
She is a police accredited offender profiler and compiles psychological reports related to offenders.
She regularly gives case management advice to the police, security personnel, celebrities and others on stalking, harassment, violence, risk assessment, malicious communications and similar topics.
After a long stint as a senior academic at the University of Leicester, England, Lorraine moved to Scotland and became a part-time Senior Research Fellow at Heriot Watt University, Edinburgh.
This was combined with self employment, clients including various police forces, government bodies, and private individuals and organisations in need of stalking and threat assessment management and interventions.
Lorraine moved to Western Australia in February 2012 and has been a senior academic at Curtin University since 2014.
She is currently President of the Asia Pacific Association of Threat Assessment Professionals.
The Gift of Fear: Survival Signals That Protect Us from Violence is a nonfiction self-help book written by Gavin de Becker.
The book demonstrates how every individual should learn to trust the inherent "gift" of their gut instinct.
By learning to recognise various warning signs and precursors to violence, it becomes possible to avoid potential trauma and harm.
Prof.
Paul Mullen MBBS, MPhil, DSc, FRCPsych, FRANZCP .
Professor Paul Mullen is Professor Emeritus at Monash University, Melbourne and Visiting Professor to the Institute of Psychiatry, London.
He was recently Professor of Forensic Psychiatry, Monash University and Clinical Director, Victorian Institute of Forensic Mental Health, and previously Professor of Psychological Medicine at the University of Otago (1982-1992)and consultant Psychiatrist at the Royal Bethlem and Maudsley Hospitals and Senior Lecturer at the Institute of Psychiatry , London.
He has published over 190 articles and referred journals, co-authored four books and contributed over 40 chapters in both the standard British textbooks on Forensic Psychiatry.
He is a member of the Fizated Research Group which conducts research into the stalking of public figures.
Rhonda Saunders has been a criminal prosecutor for twenty-four years.
She is the foremost expert in the United States on stalking.
She prosecuted the stalkers of Madonna, Gwyneth Paltrow and Steven Speilberg.
She established S.T.A.T.
(Stalking and Threat Assessment Team) for the Los Angeles District Attorney's Office and the L.A.
Stalking Task Force.
Rhonda Saunders is the author of Whisper Of Fear: The True Story of the Prosecutor Who Stalks The Stalkers .
Joseph A.
Davis, Ph.D., a nationally recognized expert in the field of public safety psychology, with a background in both psychology and law, has assembled a team of experienced professionals who have contributed to this comprehensive text, which educates, informs, and raises public awareness of this growing phenomenon.
Including several case examples for study and clinical-forensic comparison, Stalking Crimes and Victim Protection will help you provide better services to victims, evaluate the mental state of the stalker, provide assessments of potential threat, and consult on security issues, case management, and safety planning.
Professor Ross Deuchar [Interim Director of CAAS]
Ms Ann Moulds [Founder & CEO: AAS]
Dr Waiyin Hatton [Chair: AAS]
Dr Theo Tzanidis [UWS]
Professor Paul Martin [AAS]
Dr Liz Frondigoun [UWS]
Dr Allan Moore [UWS]
Ms Geraldine O’Donnell [UWS]
Dr Zara Brodie [UWS]
Ms Donna Maguire [UWS]
Dr Clair Graham [UWS]
Dr Graham Scott [UWS]
Professor Heather Tarbet [UWS]
Dr Nicola Hay [UWS]
Dr Abeer Hassan [UWS]
Dr Robert McLean [UWS]
Ms Karen Shearer [UWS Research & Enterprise Delivery Coordinator]

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/research/research-institutes-centres-groups/applied-psychology-research-group-aprg:
The APRG focuses on producing high quality psychological research that extends beyond the laboratory addressing real world challenges at local, regional and national levels.
APRG directly targets several of the UN Sustainable Development Goals; with a particular emphasis on Reducing Inequalities and Good Health and Wellbeing.
To achieve this, APRG members are committed to building external collaborations and partnerships to facilitate the production of impactful, applied research.
In addition, APRG academics often undertake a multidisciplinary approach, implementing Open Science principles, in the production of their applied research.
As a large and diverse research group, APRG has a wide variety of expertise across different themes, covering behaviour and cognition in both cyberspace and terrestrial domains.
The APRG demonstrates expertise in the following domains: Inclusive Learning, Health and Wellbeing, Cognition and Neuropsychology, and Interpersonal Psychology.
Investigating the attitudes, values, teaching methods and learning spaces which impact upon equitable education.
This involves focusing on learners with diverse needs and understanding how they can be supported to achieve within an educational context.
Examining communication and relationships between individuals.
This involves face-to-face interaction such as social perception and mate choice as well as a focus on cyberpsychology including gaming behaviours, online impression formation and online abuse.
Investigating the full spectrum of human flourishing and suffering, focusing on the identification and implementation of the processes of change.
This involves focussing on vulnerable populations experiencing stigma or suffering with disorders such as addiction, and the exploration of interventions.
Investigating a wide variety of concepts and processes in cognition and neuroscience including visuospatial attention, language processing, memory and learning and transfer.
This involves the application of specialised research approaches and equipment such as EEG, eye-tracking technology and tDCS.
Reader Email: Adrian.Parke@uws.ac.uk Tel: 0141 848 7673 PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/adrian-parke
dr claire wilson profile
Reader in Psychology Email: graham.scott@uws.ac.uk Tel: 0141 848 3830 PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/graham-scott
Reader in psychology Email: liz.boyle@uws.ac.uk Tel: 0141 848 3783 PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/elizabeth-boyle
Reader in Psychology Email: Lucy.Troup@uws.ac.uk PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/lucy-troup
Reader
Email: edward.edgerton@uws.ac.uk
Tel: 0141 848 3799
PURE profile link: https://myresearchspace.uws.ac.uk/admin/workspace/personal/overview/
Senior Lecturer in Psychology
Email: joanne.ingram@uws.ac.uk
PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/joanne-ingram
Head of Division
Email: Christopher.odonnell@uws.ac.uk
Tel: 0141 848 3798 PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/christopher-odonnell
Lecturer in Psychology Email: greg.maciejewski@uws.ac.uk Tel: 0141 848 3902 PURE profile link: Greg Maciejewski — The UWS Academic Portal
Lecturer Email: lawrie.mckay@uws.ac.uk Tel: 0141 448 4088 PURE profile link: Lawrie McKay — The UWS Academic Portal
Lecturer in Psychology Email: cai.longman@uws.ac.uk Tel: 0141 8483039 PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/cai-longman
Lecturer in Psychology Email: Nicola.Douglas-Smith@uws.ac.uk Tel: 0131 848 3310 PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/nicola-douglas-smith-2
Lecturer in Psychology Email: anna.law@uws.ac.uk Tel: 0141 848 3585 PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/anna-law
Lecturer in Psychology Email: bianca.hatin@uws.ac.uk Tel: 0141 848 3668 PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/bianca-hatin-2
Lecturer
Email: luca.kozma@uws.ac.uk
PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/luca-kozma
Lecturer in Psychology Email: gillian.hendry@uws.ac.uk PURE profile link: Gillian Hendry — The UWS Academic Portal
Lecturer Email: amanda.simpson@uws.ac.uk Tel: 01418483259 PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/amanda-simpson
Lecturer Email: Danielle.Kelly@uws.ac.uk PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/danielle-kelly
Lecturer Email: amy.marsh@uws.ac.uk Tel: 3835 PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/amy-marsh
Professor Claire Hutchinson profile
Professor Laura Kilby profile
Dr Nicola McGuigan profile
Dr Gillian Bruce profile
Dr Lesley Calderwood profile
Dr Greig Inglis profile
Dr Kallia Manoussaki profile
Dr Ailie Robertson profile
Postgraduate researchers are core members of the Applied Psychology Research Group, and central to achieving our specified targets.
There is a vibrant and dynamic PGR research community within the APRG, with PGRs engaging and contributing to all group events and activities.
The group has extensive supervision experience and expertise in a vast array of research themes and methodologies and greatly welcome prospective PGR students.
Below, we have highlighted some examples of the range of PGR work currently being undertaken at UWS:
Harriet MacLachlainn’s research focuses on student well-being and the impact of the school environment, gaining insights from the lived experiences of current students in Scotland.
Collaborating with students through creative co-production methods to generate ideas about what a school that supports student well-being might look and feel like.
Beata Cielsuk’s research focuses on improving interventions, policy, and access to treatment for the hidden population of drug users, especially older women.
The project will establish the current drug use trends, and the barriers to treatment, and aim to develop a pilot intervention with the intention of enhancing addiction treatment quality and uptake in Scotland.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/research/research-institutes-centres-groups/centre-for-migration-diaspora-citizenship:
The Centre for Migration, Diaspora, Citizenship and Identity brings together interdisciplinary scholars, and key stakeholders, to help shape public awareness, inform policy, generate high quality research, and support best practice around migration processes, diaspora movements, citizenship and identity.
At CMDCI we seek to facilitate dialogue, as well as advocate for, and strengthen, evidence-based analysis and discourse around the nexus of migration, diaspora, citizenship and identity in the contemporary world.
The Centre includes academic members from a range of backgrounds and specialisations, who are actively involved in research across a variety of projects.
CMDCI is based within the School of Education and Social Science, but also maintains strong links with Schools across the wider University.
We also work within several established networks, as well as with local, national and international governments and community organisations.
12 September 2025, Online
Theme: Migration, Transnational Identit(ies) and Senses of Belonging
Call for papers and registration
Previous events
Moving, Being, and Belonging in the Contemporary World
Conference, 11 - 12th June 2024
learn more
The Centre for Migration, Diaspora, Citizenship and Identity (CMDCI) can be reached at cmdci@uws.ac.uk
Murray.Leith@uws.ac.uk
School of Education and Social Science
Emilia.pietka-nykaza@uws.ac.uk
klement.camaj@uws.ac.uk
The activities of the Centre for Migration, Diaspora, Citizenship and Identity focus on conceptual, empirical and methodological developments within and among the following key pillars:
These projects, all carried out in conjunction with key stakeholders, illustrate the range of activity carried out by CMDCI members and colleagues within our various pillars.
Professor of Political Science and Director
Email: Murray.Leith@uws.ac.uk PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/murray-leith
Murray Leith is Professor of Political Science, and Director of CMDCI, at the University of the West of Scotland.
He researches on national identity, nationalism, belonging, politics, and veteran studies, and he lectures widely on Scotland, the broader UK and the USA.
He has worked with numerous charities, organisations and governments on such issues.
Over the last few years, he has strongly focused on the topic of the Scottish diaspora and its relationship to Scotland, as well as Scotland’s relationship with, and understanding of, the diaspora itself.
He also sits on the Scottish Connections Advisory Panel to the Scottish Government .
Senior Lecturer and Co-Director Email: emilia.pietka-nykaza@uws.ac.uk PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/emilia-pietka-nykaza
Dr Emilia Pietka-Nykaza is a Senior Lecturer in Sociology and Social Policy and Co-Director of the Centre of Migration, Diaspora, Citizenship and Identity at University of the West of Scotland.
Emilia’s expertise focuses on migrant’s practices and lived experiences of settlement and integration, role of social connections in shaping mobility and settlement patterns and practices and forms of citizenship practices and leadership among migrant communities.
Her recent studies particularly focus on rural context and impact of migration on sustainable rural communities.
Position: Lecturer and London Lead Email: klement.camaj@uws.ac.uk PURE profile link
Klement Camaj is a Lecturer in Social Sciences at the University of the West of Scotland.
Klement is a multilingual, multimethodological, storytelling researcher focused on international migration, migrant experiences, transnationalism, diaspora, and cultural identity.
Klement's main strengths consist in qualitative and multidisciplinary work, using ethnographic, narrative, and multimethodological approaches towards data collection and analysis.
Klement is a Fellow of the Higher Education Academy, Fellow of The Royal Geographical Society, and a Member of The Royal Anthropological Institute.
Position: Lecturer in Business and Management Email: narayan.bhattarai@uws.ac.uk PURE profile link: Narayan Bhattarai - The UWS Academic Portal
Narayan Bhattarai, FHEA, CMBE, is a lecturer in business and management in the School of Business and Creative Industries.
He taught at Leeds Trinity University (GBS), Royal Holloway University, and Tribhuvan University.
He is a well-recognised contributor in promoting research, teaching, administrative work, Knowledge Transfer Partnership, consultancy, and enterprising activities within and beyond the United Kingdom.
His work includes supporting sustainability initiatives alongside helping small and medium firms, particularly in the effective utilisation of digital innovation.
Position: Lecturer in Education Email: jayakumar.chinnasamy@uws.ac.uk PURE profile link: Jayakumar Chinnasamy - The UWS Academic Portal
Dr.
Jayakumar Chinnasamy has taught and supervised in Education and Business Management across India, Bhutan, Bahrain, and the UK.
His academic interests include HE internationalisation, as well as global, critical, and leadership issues in education, alongside the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
His work also encompasses comparative studies, cultural identity, organisational development, and the impact of migration on people, the planet, and prosperity.
Jayakumar is actively engaged in educational research associations, and he is dedicated to advancing international educational policies and collaborative research projects.
Professor of Sociology Email: colin.clark@uws.ac.uk PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/colin-clark
Colin Clark is Associate Dean for Research and Innovation and Professor of Sociology and Social Policy in the School of Education and Social Sciences at the University of the West of Scotland.
Colin’s research is primarily located within the connected fields of Ethnic and Racial Studies and Migration Studies, with a specialist interest in Romani Studies.
Outside of UWS, he is a Director of the Coalition for Racial Equality and Rights and a Trustee of Romano Lav (Roma Voice).
Colin acts as research advisor to the Traveller Movement, the Scottish Human Rights Commission, and the Advisory Council for the Education of Romanies and other Travellers.
X: @profcolinclark
Position: Lecturer in Social Sciences Email: Gary.Coia@uws.ac.uk
Position: Lecturer Email: beth.cross@uws.ac.uk
Beth Cross, with an MSc in African Studies and PhD in Sociology of Education from the University of Edinburgh, has been researching the interface between formal and informal learning contexts for the last fifteen years and is particularly interested in dialogic methods of exploring learner identities, strategies and trajectories.
Her interests include deliberative democracy, and service user voice and participation in health, social services and education.
She has taught in the areas of community education, social policy and children’s services in England and Scotland and worked with a number of creative interdisciplinary projects that involve visual and dramatic arts in order to expand the modalities for deliberation and participation.
Position: Lecturer Email: gray.fosterfelton@uws.ac.uk
I studied Fine Art and University College Falmouth before going on to work with children and young peoiple with special educational needs and disabilities as an Art Teacher in specialist settings.
I studied for a MAsters in Fine Art at Winchester School of Art, staying with the Univeristy of Southampton to complete my PhD in 2011.
My doctoral thesis was concerned with Deleuzean theory in relation to research carried out in, through and with art practice.
I was Post Doctoral Researcher at the Institute of Education, Univeristy College London until 2016.
During this time I worked to explore connections between my doctoral research and my ongoing practice as a teacher and SEND specialist.
Before joining UWS, I worked as a Special Educational Needs and Disabilities Coordinator (SENDCo).
I was also an Educational Consultant, supporting learning communities with all areas of inclusion and diversity, including supporting students with SEND and issues around gender diversity and LGBTQIA+.
Lecturer Email: rebecca.gordon@uws.ac.uk PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/rebecca-gordon
Rebecca Gordon (She/Her) is a Senior Lecturer in Social Sciences at the University of the West of Scotland.
Her research focuses on political leadership for inclusive change and the role of activism in inclusive change processes, representation and political leadership.
Her latest writing has explored the role of grassroots activists in galvanising legislation on LGBTQ+ rights in Pakistan and the UK.
She is currently working on a research project in the Pacific region exploring the role of participatory budgeting processes in improving connections between politicians and citizens.
She is also interested in feminist epistemologies and methodologies in ethics and research and has written on these topics.
Lecturer Email: nicola.hay@uws.ac.uk PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/nicola-hay-2
Nicola Hay has explored Roma, Gypsy and Traveller students’ agency, educational progression and career-decision making across England, Scotland and Wales.
Her research focuses on the fields of Romani studies and ethnic and racial studies, with a special interest in education and social mobility.
She also has expertise in the field of young carers, BME carers, the impact of COVID-19 and coping mechanisms.
Nicola is a mixed methods researcher with expertise in both qualitative and quantitative approaches.
She also has experience with developing creative methods co-created with research participants.
Position: Lecturer Email: luke.holmes@uws.ac.uk PURE profile link: Luke Holmes - The UWS Academic Portal
Luke Holmes works as a Lecturer in English Language and TESOL and his research interests are sociolinguistic in nature.
His current research focuses on how different conceptualisations of ethics and responsibility relate to and come with social and linguistic practices in institutional settings.
His work seeks to emphasise interactional events in which diverse linguistic and semiotic resources are employed to construct social spaces ripe with potentiality for that which is otherwise.
Lecturer Email: katy.highet@uws.ac.uk PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/katy-highet
Senior Lecturer Email: Fernando.Leon-solis@uws.ac.uk PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/fernando-leon-solis
Fernando León-Solís is Senior Lecturer in Spanish and Head of Languages at the University of the West of Scotland.
His research expertise falls in the field of Cultural Studies, Politics and Critical Discourse Analysis, with a special focus on narrative constructions of national identities in the media.
He is the author of a number of academic works and has recently edited scholarly volumes on international media and political narratives on the covid-19 pandemic and Brexit.
He lectures in politics, media studies, Spanish and English.
Email: charis.manousou@uws.ac.uk
PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/charis-manousou
Charis Manousou is a Lecturer in the MEd programme at the University of the West of Scotland's London Campus and specialises in intercultural education and inclusive environments for immigrant and diverse learners.
Her research examines intersectionality in children's multicultural school experiences, advocating identity acceptance.
Currently, Charis is engaged in a collaborative research project with other UK universities on authentic assessment in HE.
Additionally, her interest in Inclusive Leadership Practices aligns with her commitment to fostering educational environments that are inclusive and effective in diverse contemporary educational contexts.
Lecturer Email: anna.mckeever@uws.ac.uk PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/anna-mckeever
Anna is a Lecturer in Political Science with a particular interest in immigration policy and party politics, specifically conservative and radical right parties.
Her previous research examined immigration policy change in a number of West European states, including the UK, Switzerland and France.
A regular contributor to France 24 TV, she has also recently presented research to the Rothermere American Institute at the University of Oxford and the German-Southeast Asian Center of Excellence for Good Governance and Public Policy.
Anna is also interested in the issues surrounding integration of migrants, both from the perspective of migrants themselves, but also exploring how political elites shape migrant integration policies.
She sits on the editorial board of  the Journal of Contemporary European Studies.
Lecturer Email: david.mckeever@uws.ac.uk PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/david-mckeever
David McKeever is a Lecturer in Political Science and social movements researcher at the University of the West of Scotland.
His monograph Exiled Activism (Routledge, 2021) investigates the process of exile and its consequences for social movements.
Subsequently he has published research on the Scottish independence movement and continues to work on activism in democracies.
His work considers social movements broadly using quantitative and qualitative approaches.
Honorary Senior Research Fellow
Email: Duncan.sim@uws.ac.uk
Duncan Sim is semi-retired and is Honorary Senior Research Fellow in the School of Education and Social Sciences, based on the Paisley campus.
Prior to his retirement, he was Reader in Sociology.
He has undertaken extensive research on issues of identity and ethnicity.
Together with Murray Leith, his recent research has included investigations on Scottish national identity; diaspora policy; diaspora return; and studies of the Scottish diaspora in North America, England and in northern Europe, as well as advice to the Scottish Government on their recently approved Diaspora Connections Framework.
Their work has been funded by both central and local government, Carnegie Trust and the voluntary sector.
Position: Lecturer Email: laurie.walden@uws.ac.uk
Laurie Walden is a Lecturer in Education on the UWS-London campus.
Prior to joining the university in 2022, Laurie was an associate tutor at Glasgow Caledonian University and the University of Glasgow.
She has over 25 years experience as an educator including classroom teaching in elementary and middle schools in the US.
Laurie received her PhD in 2022 from the University of Glasgow with a focus on how culturally responsive pedagogy was successfully implemented in a Scottish Primary school.
She is currently co-writing a book on Culturally Responsive Pedagogy in Higher Education.
Jan Van Heese is a UWS Vice-Chancellor’s funded PhD student focused on Democratic Disengagement and Mistrust in the Fourth Industrial Revolution, supervised by Dr Anna McKeever, in collaboration with Dr Vanesa Fuertes and Professor Murray Leith.
Raghav Venkatesh is a PhD student focused on ‘Who We Are(n't): Agentive constructions of migrant identity in superdiverse Britain', supervised by Dr Katy Highet.
Nick King is a PhD student focused on 'Examining the construction of the ‘good’ foreign English Language teacher in Thailand', supervised by Dr  Katy Highet.
Lindsay Devanny is a UWS Vice-Chancellor’s funded PhD student focused on 'The politicizing of ESOL learners: An ethnography of language, migration and politics in the classroom', supervised by Dr Katy Highet, in collaboration with Dr Luke Holmes and Professor Murray Leith.
Abisola Olawale Lawal is a PhD student focused on ‘Navigating Cultural Transition: Examining the Impact of Migration from Nigeria to Scotland (2010 - 2024)’, supervised by Dr Klement Camaj, in collaboration with Professor Murray Leith and Dr Anna McKeever.
Blair Graham is a PhD student focused on ‘To what extent does a lack of economic access influence US-led humanitarian intervention?’ using Colombia and Kosovo during the 1990s as case studies.
He is supervised by Professor Murray Leith, in collaboration with Dr Rebecca Gordon and Dr Klement Camaj.
Bamidele Agbakuribe is a PhD student focused on ‘Inclusive Counselling: An exploration of general schooling and guidance counselling for disabled children in Nigeria’, supervised by Dr Rebecca Gordon.
Marjana Jahir is a PhD student focused on ‘Women’s Empowerment and Sexual Reproductive Health and Rights Practices: A Study of the Readymade Garments Industry of Bangladesh’, supervised by Professor Colin Clark, on collaboration with Dr Rebecca Gordon and Dr Julie Clark
Colleagues within CMDCI have links, and work with the following organisations
https://acert.org.uk/about-acert/
https://www.crer.org.uk/about
https://dmws.org.uk/
Welcome to HighGround - HighGround - Life Beyond the Military Outdoors
https://language-and-work-group.webnode.page/
https://lasscotland.wordpress.com/about/
https://www.romanolav.org/
https://www.scottishhumanrights.com/
https://travellermovement.org.uk/
https://www.tatdcard.org/scotland/
https://www.undp.org/pacific/projects/vaka-pasifika

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/research/research-institutes-centres-groups/pedagogy-policy-and-place-research-group:
The Pedagogy, Policy and Place research group brings together researchers, practitioners and policy makers to explore what matters most in enhancing educational outcomes, life prospects and wellbeing.
We value opportunities for collaboration and work with a wide range of partners including pre-schools, primary, secondary and special schools, further education colleges, charities, NGOs, government agencies, local authorities, trade unions and professional bodies.
Our researchers work across an extensive inter-professional network to promote research engagement and theory-guided evaluation.
Our specialisms extend from early childhood to adult and community education and encompass practice development in education and allied professional fields.
Our portfolio addresses processes of marginalisation in two key areas:
Our research is aligned with Sustainable Development Goal 4 - Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote life-long learning opportunities for all.
Professor Moira Hulme, Moira.Hulme@uws.ac.uk
Our research is investigating the relationship between professional growth, job quality and occupational wellbeing among educators.
Using mixed methods, we are exploring how local and contextual influences affect the organisational and occupational commitment of teachers across the career course.
Improved understanding of the development of commitment or withdrawal mindsets may support school systems to improve career sustainability and retention.
Our research examines how curriculum reform can address barriers to educational equity and enhance participation and belonging for children and young people across diverse needs and contexts.
As a key driver of change, curriculum innovation requires teachers to engage in pedagogical translation and contextual adaptation.
We are investigating how to build professional capacity for curriculum leadership within the teaching profession to support these essential transformations.
Our research addresses contemporary challenges in early childhood education and care.
Our diverse team brings together researchers with extensive scholarly and professional experience across Scottish, UK, and international early learning and childcare sectors.
We investigate early childhood through multiple methodologies and theoretical approaches to:
Our researchers (Hulme and Bignell) conducted a major collaborative study on teacher workload in Scotland, with Cardiff Metropolitan University and Birmingham City University, commissioned by the Educational Institute of Scotland.
This research, utilising a comprehensive time-use survey of nearly 2,000 teachers, revealed substantial impacts of excessive workloads on teacher wellbeing, job satisfaction, turnover intentions and career progression in Scottish schools.
A follow-up study is exploring teacher turnover in Scotland (Hulme, Bignell, Isdale, Murray, Nisbet, Stewart).
Our research informs policy development for teacher education and support systems across the UK, with a current focus on Wales.
Funded by the Universities and Schools' Council for the Education of Teachers Cymru, we are examining the strengths, achievements, and aspirations of teacher educators and student teachers within the Welsh context (Hulme).
This work engages stakeholders from all Initial Teacher Education (ITE) partnerships in Wales, reflecting recent national reforms that have reconceptualised school-university partnerships as collaborative endeavours through a comprehensive re-accreditation process.
Our researchers (Mohammed and Barrett) are at the forefront of shaping anti-racist policy for education in Scotland, including the development of the National Anti-Racism Framework for Initial Teacher Education (ITE) in Scotland (2023) (PDF) and contribute to national and international deliberation on decolonising/anticolonising education (Matemba).
The Vision Schools Scotland team (Killen, Maitles, Ramage, Bignell) is researching the impact of school middle leaders in fostering transformational change through holocaust education.
Projects addressing citizenship, children’s rights and participation include inclusive education (Qu, McAuliffe), citizenship practices in school spaces (Cross), and learning for sustainability (Day).
We warmly welcome enquiries from prospective doctoral candidates interested in joining our Pedagogy, Policy and Place research community at UWS.
As a doctoral scholar within our group, you will join a dynamic academic community investigating critical educational challenges through research that bridges theory and practice.
Each doctoral student benefits from mentorship by an experienced supervisory team of Education academics, while also participating in the comprehensive Researcher Development Programme offered by the UWS Doctoral College.
Our team's diverse research interests - spanning education policy, professional learning, leadership, early childhood, wellbeing, citizenship and inclusion - provide rich opportunities for doctoral projects that address contemporary educational challenges.
Whether your research interests lie in curriculum innovation, educational equity, professional development, or early childhood education and care, we invite you to explore our researcher profiles to identify potential supervisors aligned with your research aspirations.
For further information about doctoral applications, please contact our postgraduate research leader, Dr.
Julie Ovington, Julie.Ovington@uws.ac.uk
Moving the Discourse from Problems to Possibilities (pdf) - Permission required to access this SharePoint resource (log-in required)
Teacher Workload Research Report.
Executive Summary.
2024.
School of Education and Social Sciences, University of the West of Scotland (pdf)
Hulme, M.
and Bignell, C.
(2025).
Teacher Workload and Wellbeing in Scotland .
Building Capacity for Curriculum Renewal .
& Bignell, C.
Research Briefing: Fragile Leadership Pipeline.
Zenodo.
https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.15872984
"Teachers' perspectives on factors which affect increasing classroom teacher workload in Scotland" by Carole Bignell, Jeff Wood, Moira Hulme and Gary Beauchamp,
Wales Journal of Education
Should I stay or should I go?
International perspectives on workload intensification and teacher wellbeing
Our researchers have curated a special issue publication for the British Educational Research Association (BERA).
This comprehensive collection examines the critical issue of teacher wellbeing across seven diverse education systems - Scotland, England, Wales, Ireland, Alberta (Canada), Tennessee (US), and Victoria (Australia).
The research brings together contributions from leading educational researchers and teacher association officials, providing valuable insights into the shared challenges facing educators worldwide and the varying approaches to addressing workload intensification.
The BERA special issue is available online and represents an important contribution to understanding how different educational contexts are responding to the global challenge of supporting teacher wellbeing while maintaining educational quality.
Read the full collection
"Scottish teachers to strike over pupil behaviour" by Prof Moira Hulme
The Conversation

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/research/research-institutes-centres-groups/social-health-and-environmental-inequalities-shei:
The UWS Centre for Social, Health and Environmental Inequalities (SHEI) is a transdisciplinary research centre aimed at producing new perspectives on social, health and environmental injustice.
Our signature research takes an intersectional approach to understanding the social, structural, and systemic ‘causes of causes’ of inequalities and visioning equitable futures in three interrelated domains: 1) Inequality and intersectionality; 2) Health and Well-Being; and 3) Sustainable Communities and Environmental Change.
The Centre leads cutting-edge research across disciplinary divides drawing on a wide constituency of expertise.
Our emphasis on community-engaged research and collaborative knowledge co-production involves key stakeholders from policy, practice and affected communities in all stages of our research.
Our approach aims to deliver clear implementation pathways for the translation of findings into policy and practice for real world impact.
Professor Aileen O’Gorman
Email address: aileen.ogorman@uws.ac.uk
Social, health and environmental inequalities are intertwined areas of global concern.
There is an urgent need for transformative research to address these complex and entrenched challenges.
The Centre’s research takes a novel intersectional approach to understand the social, structural, and systemic ‘causes of causes’ of inequalities and vision equitable futures through intersectional policy and whole system approaches in three interrelated domains:
Professor of Substance Use and Social Policy (School of Education and Social Sciences) Email: aileen.ogorman@uws.ac.uk PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/aileen-ogorman
Professor of Mental Health (School of Health and Life Sciences) Email: Fiona.Harris@uws.ac.uk
PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/fiona-harris
Senior Lecturer Community Education (School of Education and Social Sciences)
Email: Annette.Coburn@uws.ac.uk
PURE profile: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/annette-coburn
Postdoctoral Research Fellow (School of Education and Social Sciences)
Email: Karen.Dunleavy@uws.ac.uk
PURE profile: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/karen-dunleavy
Lecturer in Mental Health and Integrated Practice (School of Health and Life Sciences)
Email: Suzanne.Heron@uws.ac.uk
PURE profile: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/suzanne-heron
Lecturer Psychology (School of Education and Social Sciences)
Email: Greig.Inglis@uws.ac.uk
PURE profile: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/greig-inglis
Senior Lecturer and Programme Lead: MA Broadcast Journalism (School of Business and Creative Industries)
Email: Elizabeth.McLaughlin@uws.ac.uk
PURE profile: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/elizabeth-mclaughlin
Senior Lecturer Education and Associate Dean for Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (School of Education and Social Sciences)
Email: Khadija.Mohammed@uws.ac.uk
PURE profile: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/khadija-mohammed
Lecturer (School of Education and Social Sciences)
Email: Rebecca.Gordon@uws.ac.uk
PURE profile: https://www.uws.ac.uk/staff-directory/rebecca-gordon/
Email: Paula.Gow@uws.ac.uk
PURE profile: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/paula-gow
Lecturer in Human Resource Management (School of Business and Creative Industries)
Email: Silvio.Hofmann@uws.ac.uk
PURE profile: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/silvio-hofmann/publications/
School Enhancement Developer (School of Computing, Engineering and Physical Sciences)
Email: Lorna.Love@uws.ac.uk
Lecturer Mental Health Nursing (School of Health and Life Sciences)
Email: Aisling.McBride@uws.ac.uk
PURE profile: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/aisling-mcbride-2
Senior Lecturer Politics (School of Education and Social Sciences)
Email: Hartwig.Pautz@uws.ac.uk
PURE profile: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/hartwig-pautz
Senior Lecturer in Leadership (School of Business and Creative Industries)
Email: Kae.reynolds@uws.ac.uk
PURE profile: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/kae-reynolds
Email: Laura.Roe@uws.ac.uk
PURE profile: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/laura-roe
Professor of Wireless Communications (School of Computing, Engineering and Physical Sciences)
Email: Muhammad.Shakir@uws.ac.uk
PURE profile: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/muhammad-zeeshan-shakir-shakir
Lecturer Social Work (School of Education and Social Sciences)
Email: Dina.Sidhva@uws.ac.uk
PURE profile: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/dina-sidhva
Senior Lecturer Psychology (School of Education and Social Sciences)
Email: Melody.Terras@uws.ac.uk
PURE profile: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/melody-terras
Lecturer Education
Email: Laurie.Walden@uws.ac.uk
PURE profile: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/laurie-walden/activities/
Centre members collaborate with a number of national and international agencies including Action Against Stalking; Drug and Alcohol Research Centre, Middlesex University; Drugs Research Network Scotland; European Society for Social Drugs Research; Finnish Institute for Health and Welfare; Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations; Highlands Alcohol and Drug Partnership; International Society for the Study of Drugs Policy; Mental Health Foundation; Ministry of Health, Malaysia; Nursing, Midwifery and Allied Health Professions (NMAHP) Research Unit, University of Stirling; Oxfam Scotland; Poverty Alliance; Scottish Drugs Forum;  Scottish Institute for Public Interest Journalism; Simon Community Scotland; Turning Point Scotland; Women in Journalism Scotland.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/research/research-institutes-centres-groups/sustainable-policy-analysis-research-centre-sparc:
SPARC aims to enhance impact and methodological innovation in policy research by delivering and supporting real-world policy solutions that are fit for purpose in the short-, medium- and long-term, through knowledge exchange and public engagement.
SPARC provides policy analysis that focuses on public value and takes into account the multi-dimensional (social, environment, and economic), multi-level (national, local, international) and multi-actor (private, public, third sector, and other stakeholders) perspectives.
In this context, SPARC particularly emphasises the need for sustainable policy analysis that creates public value for hard-to-reach and easy-to-overlook communities, places, challenges, organisations, and technologies.
Our expertise includes a wide range of policy fields (such as health, employment, migration, environmental, education, criminal justice, rural and urban development), methodologies (qualitative, quantitative and mixed methods), designs (e.g.
cross-sectional and longitudinal, case studies, quasi-experiments, meta-analysis) and analytical and theoretical frameworks.
Professor Arno van der Zwet
Email address: Arno.van-der-Zwet@uws.ac.uk
School: School of Education and Social Sciences
We aim to rise to the challenge of complex problems and sustainable solutions by employing methodological innovation in policy analysis including participatory and co-design methods, action research, large-scale and complex social science data, quasi-experimental evaluations, theories of change, contribution analysis and public value frameworks, amongst others.
We take a broad and inclusive perspective of sustainability that places social, economic and environmental factors at the heart of policy analysis.
The emphasis of our work is on the longevity of policy solutions by understanding how policy analysis can provide and support a longer-term and multi-dimensional perspective on governance and government programmes.
Our objective is to reach groups, communities, places, challenges, organisations, and technologies that due to their situation or complexity are often hard-to-reach or easy to overlook.
We look to empower situated knowledge via methodological innovations in order to reach policy solutions that are relevant, sustainable and impactful.
Following the UN in their Sustainable Development Goals, we aim to have a positive impact on knowledge, individuals, communities and societies at a local and global levels via knowledge exchange and public engagement, by providing sustainable real-world policy solutions that matter.
Improving Access To And Use Of Organisation-level Data On The Third Sector And Civil Society
The voluntary sector is widely acknowledged as containing very large numbers of organisations that make an enormous contribution to well-being and social cohesion in the UK.
We know a great deal from survey data about patterns of individual giving to charities, and about patterns of volunteering.
But there is a substantial gap in the availability of high-quality data about voluntary organisations.
And it is argued that better-quality information and evidence would lead to the contribution of those organisations being properly recognised, leading in turn to higher levels of public and voluntary support for them.
This project seeks to respond to this need by creating the first national database on the population of organisations forming the third sector through bringing together information about charities with information about different kinds of noncharitable civil society organisations (including Community Interest Companies, Co-operatives and Mutuals, and non-profit Companies Limited by Guarantee).
Key contact: Dr Diarmuid McDonnell ( Diarmuid.McDonnell@uws.ac.uk )
A Sociological Investigation Of Underemployment And The Lived Experiences Of Underemployed Workers
Increasing number of workers are underemployed, meaning that they are working below their potential or preference in terms of hours, wages, and/or skills.
Underemployment is a key societal challenge that renders workers more vulnerable to the fast and continuing economic fluctuations resulting from industrial changes, recessions and austerity measures, and other events such as the Covid pandemic or food insecurity due to climate change.
Even though underemployment is on the increase, existing research is dominated by supply-side economics and psychological analysis, and existing employment statistics do not fully reflect or account for this phenomenon.
This study will address, through a longitudinal mixed-methods design, the knowledge gap that exists in what we know about underemployment levels, composition, predictors and outcomes and about the lived experiences of underemployed workers with and outwith work.
The research will investigate the impact of underemployment on individuals, families, households, communities, and society, providing relevant policy recommendations.
Key contact: Vanesa Fuertes ( Vanesa.Fuertes@uws.ac.uk )
Link to website: https://underemployment.info/
Encouraging positive bystander responses to bias-based bullying in primary schools through a serious game approach
Bias-based bullying is a serious public health issue having a negative impact on the well-being of children with socially devalued identities and characteristics.
Given that bias-based bullying is driven by social-cognitive factors of stigma (e.g., social dominance orientation, stereotypes and prejudice) different strategies are needed to address this form of bullying compared to non-bias motivated bullying.
This project aims to contribute to our knowledge about how best to address bias-based bullying by developing and evaluating an intervention specifically designed to encourage positive bystander responses in weight-, ethnicity-, and religion-based bullying situations.
The intervention will consist of a serious game, lesson plans and teacher training and will be tested with 9- to 13-year-old children in Scotland, the Netherlands and Greece.
The study aims to contribute to building a stronger evidence base for interventions targeting bias-based bullying to ensure the human rights of students with devalued identities or attributes are respected and their wellbeing does not suffer as a result of bias-based bullying.
Key contact: Maria Sapouna ( Maria.Sapouna@uws.ac.uk )
Link to website: https://www.ou.nl/en/web/gate-bull
UK fisheries policy post-Brexit: multi-level challenges and opportunities
This project will look at the different levels of government in the UK in the context of fisheries policy.
Using fisheries as a case study, the project aims to contribute to the academic literature on multi-level governance and rescaling by exploring the need to alter policy realities in a post Brexit UK.
Besides examining the UK’s internal dynamics, the project aims to look overseas to Norway, Iceland and the Faroe Islands; states and territories who are outside the EU but who govern their own territorial waters and who negotiate with each other and the EU every year to set the amount of fish that can be caught in particular parts of the seas around Europe.
Key contact: Arno van der Zwet ( Arno.van-der-Zwet@uws.ac.uk )
Link to report: https://ukandeu.ac.uk/wp-content/uploads/2018/05/Governing-UK-fisheries-after-Brexit-Lessons-from-iceland-Norway-and-the-Faroe-Islands.pdf
Integrated territorial and urban strategies: How are ESIF adding value in 2014-2020?
The 2014-2020 regulatory provisions to EU Cohesion policy gave Member States new opportunities to use ESIF for sustainable urban development and other territorial strategies, particularly using Integrated Territorial Investment.
This study examines how Member States are responding to these new provisions and how Cohesion policy is ‘adding value’ to regional, urban and local development.
The study shows that there has been significant uptake of territorial strategies in 2014-2020, mainly in the form of sustainable urban development, across most Member States.
Many of the strategies are new; the territorial provisions have encouraged innovation and adaptation in both thinking and practice.
This innovation includes a more integrated approach to intervention, the implementation of strategies at different spatial scales, and more collaborative models of governance.
There is scope for extending the use of territorial strategies in future, albeit with simplification of some of the regulatory requirements and more flexibility in programming.
There is a need for institutional capacity-building to ensure efficient implementation at local level and greater emphasis on citizen engagement.
Lastly, more attention needs to be given to monitoring and evaluating the outcomes of strategies.
Link to European Commission report: https://op.europa.eu/en/publication-detail/-/publication/04637994-e6d5-11e7-9749-01aa75ed71a1/language-en
UWS-Oxfam Partnership - City Region and Growth Deals: Growing Equality for Scotland?
City Region Deals (CRDs) and Growth Deals are arrangements between the UK Government, the Scottish Government, local governments, and (private, public or third sector) local stakeholders.
In Scotland, CRDs and Growth Deals are expected to explicitly engage with the Scottish Government’s agenda on ‘inclusive growth’.
This is in contrast, at least on the discursive level, to the UK Government’s focus on growth as more ‘traditionally’ understood and measured in gross domestic product (GDP).
In that, CRDs and Growth Deals arguably have at least the potential to be a socially progressive force if they can proactively address inequalities and exclusions whilst also taking into account the impact of economic growth on the environment and on climate change.
This project examines whether, in Scotland, the potential of the deals to be a progressive force has been realised with regards to the themes of openness, partnership and inclusivity both during the early development phases of the deals and in the more concrete project-oriented phases thereafter.
The project discusses the extent to which the making of the various CRDs and Growth Deals has included a wide range of communities, whether those who were involved in the deal-making processes considered equality and inclusion issues, and whether equality impacts were actively monitored.
The report is underpinned by the analysis of publicly available CRD and Growth Deal documents - in particular the ‘heads of terms’ agreed for each deal by local stakeholders, the Scottish Government and the UK Government - and by data gleaned from eighteen interviews, conducted in 2018, with people involved in the making of the seven deals scrutinised in this report
Link to UWS-OXFAM partnership report: https://oxfampartnership.uws.ac.uk/wp-content/uploads/2023/01/City-Region-and-Growth-Deals-Growing-Equality-for-Scotland-REPORT.pdf
Mission Accomplished?
A Cross-national Examination of Charity Dissolution
Encouraged by ‘open data’ movements, regulators have made it increasingly straightforward for stakeholders to access large-scale data about charities and their regulation.
This project leverages some of these data resources to examine a topic of considerable public and regulatory importance: charity dissolution.
This project undertakes work to collect, clean, harmonise and analyse international data on charity dissolution.
In doing so we identify real opportunities for interdisciplinary collaboration to understand this important topic.)
Decent Work in Social Care
In 2020, this project explored what care workers, in the shadow of the the COVID-19 crisis, in Scotland think about their job quality and what needs changing.
Chiefly, participants claimed the important factors that “make work decent” are in short supply.
Care workers want more supportive managers who themselves are supported better; decent pay which takes into account the real skills that care work requires and is based on systematic job evaluations; decent terms and conditions including sick pay beyond the statutory minimum; and job security with a curb on casual employment.
A safe work environment is important too as many care workers say that their mental and physical health mattered little in their workplaces even before COVID-19.
One factor crucial to making work feel decent and worthwhile is purpose and meaning.
Many care workers say they remain in the job because their work has an abundance of both.
However, there is a lack of social recognition and this is key to understanding why, overall, job quality in the sector is low.
The lack of recognition should be understood in context of the high regard in which the NHS is held.
In the view of care workers, how Covid-19 unfolded for them confirmed long-held beliefs that existing attitudes towards older people – attitudes characterised by agism and lack of valuing them – translate directly into a lack of recognition for those who care for them.
The project report makes some suggestions on what needs to change.
Certainly, dcent work improvements for care workers require a dedicated approach and specified institutionalised ‘regime’ for job quality improvement.
Other social care sectors also require such a dedicated approach – each sector is too complex to allow a ‘one-size-fits-all’ approach.
All decent work factors, in particular the seven factors focussed on in this report, should be seen as interdependent and should be addressed by all stakeholders in a coordinated way.
Starting at the top, the culture which pervades the care sector needs to change.
A new ‘culture of care’ should drive institutions and operations in a more sustainable direction and potentially pave the way for finding new ways of resourcing social care.
This will require the courage to accept responsibility and the need for co-operation across all stakeholders, with front line care workers having a central place in this process of change.
Key Contact: Hartwig Pautz ( Hartwig.Pautz@uws.ac.uk)
Link: https://oxfampartnership.uws.ac.uk/wp-content/uploads/2023/01/SGHPDecentWorkinScottishCareHomesReport.pdf
Romania Catching-Up Regions : Strategic Requirements for Organizational Models
Strategic requirements are a way to ensure that EU funds generate more value added than just the investments they finance.
For the 2021-2027 programming period, Romania will receive around thirty billion Euro through European Structural and Investment Funds (ESFI).
This sizable budget will help address a number of development challenges throughout the country.
To be able to access these funds, Romania, as all other EU member states, has to meet a number of strategic requirements.
Generally, these strategic requirements cover most sectors covered by EU funds, and include the national level and local levels, and from the managing authorities and intermediary bodies to end beneficiaries.
Moreover, in addition to the minimum strategic requirements imposed by the European Commission, there are also a set of additional strategic requirements imposed by national governments.
The report proposes a way to think about potential strategic requirements for the SUD 2021-2027, based on the types of organizational models that could be adopted.
The report also discusses some of the risks that should be kept in mind when the decision for a SUD approach is taken, focusing on three types of risks: 1) contextual s; 2) implementation; and 3) collaboration.
Link to World Bank report: https://documents.worldbank.org/en/publication/documents-reports/documentdetail/898061580283295995/romania-catching-up-regions-strategic-requirements-for-organizational-models
Honour-Based Abuse in Scotland: Evidence and pathways to strengthen protection for victims
This programme draws together an international multi-disciplinary team of practitioners and experts in law, psychology, social work and social policy, government, and the women’s sector, along with the women who have experienced it, to consider Honour-Based Abuse in Scotland.
Considering the protection provided to victims of gender-based abuse through the law and policing, the project will illuminate and evaluate the effect this has on women who are impacted by the intersecting factors of gender, ethnicity, family networks, linguistic, financial, educational, immigration and other barriers in the face of Honour-Based Abuse.
The Domestic Abuse (Scotland) Act 2018 introduced a law to criminalise a course of conduct considered “abusive” whereby an individual who abuses their partner or ex-partner may be guilty of an offence.
This legislation represents a concerted effort to recognise the complexity of domestic abuse, but there remains a legislative gap regarding protection for victims suffering abuse rooted in ‘honour’.
The project will evaluate the current law and policy on domestic abuse in Scotland; the way this influences policing, social work, agency, education and community responses; and whether explicit legislation is required to protect women experiencing Honour-Based Abuse.
Key Contact: Scott Grant ( Scott.Grant@uws.ac.uk )
Link: https://www.scottishinsight.ac.uk/Programmes/OpenCall202122/Honour-BasedAbuseinScotland.aspx
UWX-Oxfam Partnership research on Scottish National Performance Framework and an outcome on care
The report presents a detailed blueprint for a new National Outcome on care as it could be added to Scotland’s National Performance Framework.
The blueprint uses insights gained from research literature and existing practice from around the world.
Furthermore, the views of stakeholders (unpaid carers; care workers; people experiencing care; representatives of organisations involved in providing, financing, monitoring care or in supporting care recipients or providers; and academic experts) are incorporated.
Link: https://oxfampartnership.uws.ac.uk/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/NPF-Report.pdf
Director and Professor of European Governance Email: arno.van-der-zwet@uws.ac.uk PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/arno-van-der-zwet
Deputy Director and Senior Lecturer Email: Julie.Clark@uws.ac.uk PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/julie-clark
Deputy Director and Senior Lecturer Email: Vanesa.Fuertes@UWS.ac.uk PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/vanesa-fuertes
Professor of Public Policy Email: Margaret.Arnott@uws.ac.uk PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/margaret-arnott
Lecturer Email: Diarmuid.McDonnell@uws.ac.uk PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/diarmuid-mcdonnell
Senior Lecturer Email: Maria.Sapouna@uws.ac.uk PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/maria-sapouna
Senior Lecturer Email: Scott.Grant@uws.ac.uk PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/scott-grant
Lecturer Email: nidia.avilesnunez@uws.ac.uk PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/nidia-aviles-nunez
Lecturer Email: Colin.Atkinson@uws.ac.uk PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/colin-atkinson
Senior Lecturer Email: Hartwig.Pautz@uws.ac.uk
PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/hartwig-pautz
Lecturer Email: Habibe.Ilhan@uws.ac.uk
Professor
nick.jenkins@uws.ac.uk
awais.mashkoor@uws.ac.uk
gareth.rice@uws.ac.uk
Professor of Social Sciences Email: Colin.Clark@UWS.ac.uk PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/colin-clark
Lecturer Email: Rosie.Alexander@uws.ac.uk PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/rosie-alexander
Professor of Wireless Communications Email: Muhammad.Shakir@uws.ac.uk PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/muhammad-zeeshan-shakir-shakir
Senior Lecturer Email: emilia.pietka-nykaza@uws.ac.uk PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/emilia-pietka-nykaza
Professor Email: david.mcgillivray@uws.ac.uk PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/david-mcgillivray
https://www.worldbank.org/en/home
https://commission.europa.eu/about-european-commission/departments-and-executive-agencies/joint-research-centre_en
https://eprc-strath.org/
https://spre.scot/
https://www.parliament.scot/chamber-and-committees/research-prepared-for-parliament/contact-spice
https://commonslibrary.parliament.uk/
https://ukandeu.ac.uk/
https://www.sgsss.ac.uk/
https://www.cipd.org/uk/
https://stuc.org.uk/
Arnott, M (2020) Missing Links: Past, Present and Future Interparliamentary Relations in the devolved UK (Cardiff: Institute of Welsh Affairs)
Arnott, M.A and J.Ozga (2016) ‘Scotland: in Federal Britain?’ Oxford Review of Education vol 42 issue 5 pp.253-265
Clifford, D., McDonnell, D., & Mohan, J.
(forthcoming).
‘Charities’ income during the COVID-19 pandemic: administrative evidence for England and Wales’ Journal of Social Policy.
Connolly, J.
and van der Zwet, A (eds) (2021) Public Value Management, Governance and Reform in Britain (as part of the International Series on Public Policy (series editors: Guy Peters and Philippe Zittoun), Palgrave Macmillan.)
Fuertes, V., McQuaid, R.
& Heidenreich, M.
(2021).
Institutional logics of service provision: the national and urban governance of activation policies in three European countries.
Journal of European Social Policy, 31(1), 92-107.
DOI: 10.1177/0958928720974178
Fuertes, V., Jantz, B., Klenk, T.
& McQuaid, R.
W.
(2014).
Between cooperation and competition: the organisation of employment service delivery in the UK and Germany.
International Journal of Social Welfare, 23(S1), 71-86.
DOI: 10.1111/ijsw.12100
McDonnell, D.
(2017).
‘Improving Charity Accountability: Lessons From the Scottish Experience’ Nonprofit and Voluntary Sector Quarterly, 46(4), 725-746.
McDonnell, D., Mohan, J., & Norman, P.
(2020).
‘Charity Density and Social Need: A Longitudinal Perspective’ Nonprofit and Voluntary Sector Quarterly.
https://doi.org/10.1177/0899764020911199 .
McDonnell, D., & Rutherford, A.
(2019).
Scottish Charitable Incorporated Organisations (SCIO): An Empirical Review.
Report for Scottish Charity Regulator (OSCR).
Ozga, J., & Arnott, M.
A.
Governando para além do PISA: conhecimento, redes e narrativas.
Roteiro, 44(3), 1-22.
Rutherford, A.
C., McDonnell, D., & Hogg, E.
‘Incentivising Regulatory Participation: Effectiveness of a Fundraising Levy’ Public Administration Review.
https://doi.org/10.1111/puar.13176 .
van Der Zwet, A., Connolly, J., Huggins, C., & McAngus, C.
(2022) Network resilience and EU fisheries policy engagement in third countries: Lessons for post-Brexit governance.
The British Journal of Politics and International Relations, 13691481211067146.
Clark, J., Jenkins, N.
& Noone, S.(2019) Soft power and hard choices: a critical perspective on health and inclusion in disadvantaged communities, Local Economy, 34, 7, p.
730-738
Pautz, H.; Dempsey, D.
(2022) Covid-19 and the crisis of food insecurity in the UK.
Contemporary Social Science, DOI: 10.1080/21582041.2022.2044069
McCall, V., Rolfe, S., Matthews, P., Wallace, A., Manyika, G., Iafrati, S., Clark, C., and Munro, M.
(2022) ‘The Impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic on UK Housing Policy: How do we rebuild the foundations of the ‘wobbly pillar’?
in Jolly, A., Cefalo, R., and Pomati, M.
(eds.) Social Policy Review 34: Analysis and Debate in Social Policy, 2022, Bristol: Bristol Policy Press.
Maclean, C., Pautz, H., Gibb, S and Hay, N.
(2021) Towards a Scotland that cares: a New National Outcome on Care for the National Performance Framework.
UWS-Oxfam Research Report Series.
Maclean, C., and Hay, N.
(2021) Young, caring and struggling to make ends meet: The worsening economic circumstances of Scotland’s young carers during Covid-19.
Alexander, R; Holm, A-E; Hansen, D; Vahl, K M (2020) ‘Career Guidance in Nordic Self-Governing Regions: Opportunities and Challenges’ in Haug, Hooley, Kettunen and Thomsen (eds) Career and Career Guidance in the Nordic Countries.
Brill Sense: Leiden.
pp.65-80
Alexander, R; McCabe, G & De Backer, M (2019) Careers and labour market information: an international review of the evidence Education Development Trust
Arnott, M.A.
(2017) ‘"Jigsaw Puzzle" of education policy?: nation, state and globalised policy making’ Scottish Educational Review, Vol.
49, No.
2, pp3-14.
(2016) ‘Governing Strategies of the SNP Government 2007-2016: Education Policy’ Scottish Affairs 25 (1) pp.45-61
Beck, V., Fuertes, V., Kamrāde, D., Lyonette, C.
& Warren, T.
Working Lives.
In Parker, M.
(Ed).
Life After COVID-19: The Other Side of Crisis.
The Bristol University Press
Browne, C., McDonagh, C.
and Clark, C., (2022) 'A space for me, but what about my family?': the experiences of Gypsy, Roma and Traveller student carers in UK Higher Education, in Hook, G., Moreau, M-P.
& Brooks, R.
Student Carers in Higher Education: Navigating, Resisting, and Re-Inventing Academic Cultures.
London: Routledge, p.73-87.
Fuertes, V.
The rationale for embedding ethics and public value in public administration programmes.
Teaching Public Administration, online first.
DOI: 10.1177/01447394211028275
& Robertson, P.
Career-first: an approach to sustainable labour market participation for disadvantaged groups.
International Journal for Educational and Vocational Guidance, 21, p.429-446.
DOI: 10.1007/s10775-020-09451-2
& Lindsay, C.
(2016).
Personalization and street-level practice in activation: the case of the UK's work programme.
Public Administration.
94(2), 526-541.
DOI: 10.1111/padm.12234
Hooley, T; Percy, C & Alexander, R.
(2021) Exploring Scotland’s Career Ecosystem: Evidence to support the Career Review Skills Development Scotland
Pietka-Nykaza E.
(2015) “I want to do anything, which is decent, and relates to my profession”: Refugee doctors’ and teachers’ strategies of re-entering their professions in the UK, Journal of Refugee Studies, 28 (4), 523-543
Alexander, R (2021) ‘Young people, out-migration and Scottish Islands: Surveying the landscape in Burnett, Burnett and Danson (eds) Scotland and Islandness: Explorations in Community, Economy and Culture.
pp143-168
Alexander, R (2018) 'Geography, mobility and graduate career development' in Burke, C.
& Christie, F Graduate Careers in Context: Research, Policy and Practice.
Routledge: London.
and Rostas, I.
(2022) Engaging with decolonisation, tackling antigypsyism: lessons from teaching Romani studies at the Central European University in Hungary, Social Policy and Society, 21(1): p.68-79.
Campbell, L.
and Hay, N., 2020.
Show racism the red card.
In Community Development for Social Change (pp.
227-235).
Routledge.
Hay, N., Campbell, L., Kowalewska, M., Clark, C., Tammi, L., and Balogh, B.
2020.
“A Hidden Community: Justifying the Inclusion of Roma as an Ethnic Identity in the 2021 Scottish Census.” Critical Romani Studies 3 (1): 46–71.
Jones, K., Ksaifi, L.
and Clark, C.
(2022) ‘The biggest problem we are facing is the running away problem’: placement agencies and the paradox of facilitating the mobility of immobile workers, Work, Employment and Society (online 07-08-22) https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/full/10.1177/09500170221094764
Leatham, S.
2022.
Data in which many worlds fit?
Queering knowledge production for pluriversal post-growth futures.
Proceedings of the 20th STS Conference Graz 2022.
DOI: 10.3217/978-3-85125-932-2
McKeever, A.
(2020) Immigration Policy and Right-Wing Populism in Europe.
Palgrave Macmillan.
(2021) ‘Explaining policy deadlock: The case of Sarkozy’s integration policy’, French Politics
Mulvey, G., Ahmed, T.
(2022) Race and migration in Scotland, in Gall, G.
(ed.) A New Scotland: Building an Equal, Fair and Sustainable Society.
London: Pluto Press p.195-206.
Pietka-Nykaza, E.
Clark C.
and Leith M.
(2020) Scotland and Brexit: Citizenship, identity and belonging, Scottish Affairs, 29 (3), 293-304,
McGhee, D (2016), From privileged to thwarted stakeholders – Polish migrants’ perceptions of the Scottish Independence Referendum 2014 and the UK General Election in 2015, Citizenship Studies, 20 (6-7), 899-913
McGhee, D (2015), Stakeholdership citizenship: Complexities of Polish Migrants citizenship attachments in the context of the Scottish Independence Referendum, Citizenship Studies, 20 (1), 115- 129
Sapouna, M., DeAmicis, L.
& Vezzali, L.
(in press) Bullying victimization due to racial, ethnic, citizenship and/or religious status: A systematic review.
Adolescent Research Review
Clark, J.
& Kearns, A., (2016), Going for gold: a prospective assessment of the economic impacts of the Glasgow 2014 Games upon the East End of Glasgow In: Environment and Planning C: Politics and Space.
34, 8, p.
1474-1500
Clark, J., Kearns, A.
& Cleland, C.
(2016) Spatial scale, time and process in mega-events: The complexity of host community perspectives on neighbourhood change, Cities: The International Journal of Urban Policy and Planning.
53, p.
87-97
& Rice, G., (2019) Revitalising rural Scotland: Loch Fyne, branding and belonging Journal of Place Management and Development.
13, 1, p.
18-29
& Wise, N.
(Eds) (2018) Urban Renewal, Community and Participation: Theory, Policy and Practice, Springer Urban Book Series, Cham, Switzerland: Springer.
2020."Natural Climate Solutions": We Aren't Seeing the Woods for the Trees.
Clean Slate.
118: 26-28
Medeiros, E., & Van Der Zwet, A.
(2020) Evaluating integrated sustainable urban development strategies: A methodological framework applied in Portugal.
European planning studies, 28(3), 563-582.
Van der Zwet, A., Bachtler, J., Ferry, M.
and McMaster, I (2017) Integrated territorial and urban strategies: how are ESIF adding value in 2014-2020?, Study conducted for the European Commission (DG Regio).
van der Zwet, A., Mendez, C., and Borkowska-Waszak (2021) Rescaling urban development policy in the EU: the impact of integrated place-based approaches in Cohesion Policy, Regional Studies, 55(6), pp 1154-65
Atkinson, C.
(2022).
‘Football fans are not thugs’: communication and the future of fan engagement in the policing of Scottish football.
Policing and Society, 32(4), 472-488.
Patriarchy, gender, infantilisation: A cultural account of police intelligence work in Scotland.
Australian & New Zealand journal of criminology, 50(2), 234-251.
Atkinson, C., Mackenzie, S., & Hamilton-Smith, N.
A systematic review of the effectiveness of asset-focussed interventions against organised crime.
Murray, K., & Atkinson, C., (2020) This Service Terminates Here?
Politics, Practitioner Perspectives, and the Future of Railway Policing in Scotland.
Policing: A Journal of Policy and Practice, 14(3): 752-765.
https://doi.org/10.1093/police/pay074
Schinkel, M., Atkinson, C., & Anderson, S.
‘Well-kent faces’: Policing persistent offenders and the possibilities for desistance.
The British journal of criminology, 59(3), 634-652.
Grant, S., Buchan, J., & O'Donnell, A.
Probation in Europe: Scotland.
In A.
van Kalmthout and I.
Durnescu (eds) (2020) Probation in Europe.
Utrecht: Confederation of European Probation.https://www.cep-probation.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/11/Scotland-chapter-final-version.pdf
The Challenges and Opportunities Facing Migrant Employees Working in Algerian Oil and Gas Industry: Culture, Performance, Diversity, and Social Integration.
Globalisation has rendered workplaces into increasingly culturally diverse environments, making the impact of cultural diversity on organisational performance a crucial area of inquiry.
This study examines the influence of cultural diversity on the performance and social integration of non-Algerian employees in Algeria’s oil and gas sector, a field notable for its heterogeneous workforce.
Focusing on key dimensions of cultural diversity within Algerian oil and gas companies, this research explores the opportunities and challenges faced by non-Algerian employees, the importance of effective diversity management, the mechanisms underpinning cultural diversity, and its relationship to employee performance and social.
To achieve the research objectives, a mixed-methods approach was employed.
Quantitative data were collected from 34 non-Algerian employees working in five distinct private and state-owned oil and gas companies in Algeria, selected based on nationality, experience, organisational role, and company type.
Qualitative data were gathered through online semi-structured interviews with 16 participants.
Quantitative data were analysed using cross-tabulations, while qualitative data were examined through thematic content analysis.
The findings revealed that cultural diversity significantly shapes both performance and social integration of non-Algerian employees within Algerian organisations.
These employees, originating from diverse cultural backgrounds, contribute a wealth of skills, experiences, and perspectives that improve the workplace environment by introducing innovative strategies and solutions to challenges, thus fostering creativity and innovation and driving productivity.
Through interacting with non-Algerian colleagues, Algerian employees benefit from their distinct experiences, ultimately contributing to a more dynamic and inclusive organisational culture.
This study addresses a gap in the literature on cultural diversity within Algeria’s oil and gas sector and offers practical recommendations for theory, policy, and practice.
Findings underscore the importance of tailored diversity strategies, effective communication, and employee satisfaction, with implications for multinational corporations operating in culturally diverse contexts.
These insights highlight the necessity of targeted diversity management strategies to enhance performance and social cohesion within multicultural organisations.
Operationalising One Health for Antimicrobial Resistance: The Barriers and Opportunities for Environmental Integration and Collaborative Governance in Scotland
This research examines Scotland’s One Health approach to antimicrobial resistance (AMR).
AMR is a characteristic wicked policy problem with significant cross-cutting implications for humans, animals, and the environment.
However, the environmental dimension has historically been underrepresented in both research and policy and there is a lack of comprehensive guidance for implementing One Health.
This study aims to advance understanding of effective strategies to address AMR by integrating environmental considerations and incorporating a collaborative governance perspective into the operationalisation of One Health.
A qualitative case study approach was employed, utilising documentary analysis and stakeholder interviews from sectors including government, public health, environmental management, research, and industry.
The findings highlight Scotland’s progress in integrating environmental considerations, identifying key barriers such as weaknesses in leadership and resource silos, and opportunities for enhanced stakeholder engagement and collaboration.
These insights underscore the critical role of governance factors in the implementation of One Health for addressing AMR and provide actionable recommendations for policymakers.
Date 21 January 2025
Promoting physical activity (PA) for survivors of violence against women (VAW) in Scotland: needs, approaches and impacts
Violence against women (VAW) survivors are at increased risk of experiencing injuries, trauma, physical and mental health issues, homelessness, using drugs/alcohol, and reduced education/employment opportunities.
VAW may lead to objectification and self-objectification, affecting survivors’ relationships with their bodies.
Physical activity (PA) has been linked to physical and mental health improvements.
PA can lead to better embodiment, reduce self-objectification, and boost confidence.
Some forms of PA, such as self-defence, are argued to reduce revictimization, whereas PA integrating mindfulness and body, such as yoga, may ease trauma symptoms.
There is limited literature investigating VAW survivors’ experiences and needs for PA and embodiment.
This is the first study in Scotland to explore those.
This project’s objectives are to: identify the existing provision of PA specifically for VAW survivors in Scotland, explore the approaches taken by PA for VAW providers in Scotland, understand survivors’ experiences of, and desires for, PA, and explore the impact PA has on survivors’ well-being and relationship with their bodies.
I will interview PA providers to understand their approaches and motivations for the provision of PA opportunities for survivors.
I wish to conduct photo-elicitation interviews and body mapping focus groups with survivors to explore their experiences of PA and its impact in relation to bodies and well-being.
Housing Policy in Scotland: Multi-Level Governance and the Politics of (de)Commodification since 2007
Since the neoliberal turn, housing policy has been shaped by a tension between housing’s use value as a home and its exchange value as a market asset.
This thesis examines how Scotland has navigated this tension since 2007, when the SNP assumed control of the devolved Holyrood parliament.
Measures such as regulating the private rented sector and ending the right to buy suggest a shift toward decommodification.
Within a multi-level governance framework, the research explores how political, bureaucratic, and civil society actors articulate competing interests and shape housing policy.
It assesses whether these changes represent a substantive move away from neoliberalism or a reconfiguration of its norms, focusing on distributional outcomes and the balance between financialisation pressures and social policy goals.
Drawing on Poulantzasian state theory, the study investigates how policy networks mediate tensions between use and exchange value, linking measures to broader political and economic structures.
Using policy analysis and stakeholder interviews, it highlights challenges of aligning social welfare priorities with governance practices in a financialised political economy.
By presenting Scotland’s housing strategy as a case study, this thesis contributes to critical geography, public policy and housing studies, offering insights into the politics of interest articulation and contested policy outcomes.
A Place for Everyone?
Housing, Policy, and Community in Rural Scotland
This research investigates the role of housing policy in fostering sustainable, community-led development in rural Scotland, where challenges like affordable housing shortages, second-home ownership, and aging populations threaten economic and social cohesion.
By examining how communities can take greater control of their housing needs, this study aims to provide actionable insights into empowering local residents to transform vacant properties and develop sustainable housing solutions.
The research explores innovative models of community ownership and governance, focusing on their potential to revitalize rural economies, enhance social cohesion, and promote environmentally conscious development.
Case studies of successful community-led initiatives will inform the development of a practical toolkit to support rural communities in navigating financial, legal, and technical barriers to housing control.
This project also seeks to offer policy recommendations and best practice guides for government agencies and housing professionals to create enabling frameworks that balance local needs with broader housing and tourism pressures.
Ultimately, the study aspires to contribute to sustainable rural development, offering a roadmap for equitable housing policies and community resilience in Scotland and beyond.
The Role of Local Political Leaders in Shaping the Planning and Implementation of Health and Social Care Integration: A Case Study from Scotland.
This thesis examines the role of local political leaders in shaping the planning and implementation of Health and Social Care Integration (H&SCI) in Scotland, as outlined in the 2014 Public Bodies (Joint Working) Act.
H&SCI aims to improve care quality and efficiency for individuals using health and social services.
Local councillors, integral to Integration Joint Boards (IJBs), oversee H&SCI, yet their contributions remain under-researched.
This study addresses this gap by analysing councillors’ roles, leadership styles, and the political contexts shaping their actions.
It also explores the dynamics between political representatives and senior bureaucratic actors, such as chief officers and planners.
Using a qualitative case study approach, the research analyses policy documents and conducts semi-structured interviews with councillors and stakeholders across eleven IJB areas.
An analytical framework, informed by contingency and situational leadership theories, integrates leadership styles and political contexts to identify key themes and approaches.
Findings reveal that local political leaders adopt diverse leadership styles—ranging from cooperative to result-oriented—shaped by their environment and preferences.
They face challenges such as managing stakeholder conflicts, financial pressures, and reform complexities.
The study contributes to public sector reform literature, offering insights to enhance H&SCI governance and performance, while informing integrated governance theory and practice.
Completion day - 17 May 2024
Charitable food aid and growing inequalities in the UK
This study employs a mixed methods approach to examine the evolution and geographic distribution of charitable food aid providers in the United Kingdom from 1960 onwards, investigating their relationship with areas of material deprivation.
The research aims to address a critical gap in understanding how charitable food provision intersects with socio-economic inequalities and welfare restructuring.
As Lambie-Mumford and Silvasti (2020: 191) note, "the rise of charitable food assistance needs to be understood within the context of changing welfare states and the rolling back of social security provision." Findings from the literature review so far reveal significant geographical variations in charitable food provision that do not consistently align with levels of material deprivation.
As McDonnell et al.
(2020: 1082) demonstrate, this creates "geographies of hidden hunger" - areas where high levels of need may exist but remain unmet due to limited-service provision.
Current literature also identifies complex interactions between welfare reform, local institutional capacity, and voluntary sector resources in shaping patterns of provision.
The study aims to contribute to both academic discourse and policy development by providing empirical evidence of how charitable food aid has evolved in response to changing welfare landscapes.
It highlights important implications for addressing food insecurity and social inequality in the UK context, while also identifying areas requiring further research attention.
Expected submission – 01/06/2026

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/research/research-institutes-centres-groups/uws-oxfam-partnership:
The UWS-Oxfam Partnership is an innovative model of research and knowledge exchange between the University of the West of Scotland and Oxfam Scotland.
The Partnership was launched in 2011 after years of successful collaboration between the University and Oxfam Scotland.
In particular, the development of Oxfam’s UK Poverty Programme in Scotland and its Our Economy report with its input from UWS researchers were significant milestones for the establishment of the Partnership.
Since its launch, the Partnership has brought together the academic expertise from UWS, the social justice and anti-poverty advocacy strengths of Oxfam Scotland, and a wide range of civil society organisations.
Its activities, in particular its research, have critically examined the impacts of public policies on equalities, sustainability and poverty.
At the same time, all Partnership activities have sought to provide policy-focussed ideas to inform the policy debate to work towards a more sustainable and equitable Scotland.
On the University of the West of Scotland’s Paisley campus, the UWS-Oxfam Partnership and the university’s Sustainable Policy Analysis Research Centre hold a series of five workshops between November 2024 and April 2025.
At these workshops, participants are invited to jointly develop a comprehensive understanding about how a range of issues – cost of living; housing; care and caring; learning and employment; health and wellbeing – play out in Renfrewshire.
This includes questions such as which short-term or long-term policy solutions might work and which have not worked, who should be involved in policy making, what knowledge and experience is missing from the policy process, and who needs to be addressed in order to make change happen.
To the workshops, the organisers invite people who can represent public, private and third sector organisations and their knowledge and insight with respect to the five themes and with respect to Renfrewshire.
We also welcome individuals to contribute to the discussion.
There is no cost for participation, and we want the event to be as informal as possible.
Below are Eventbrite registration links – on the Eventbrite site, more detail on the workshops is available too.
Workshop dates and themes
Friday November 1 st , 12 to 2.30pm: Cost of living - Register
Friday December 6 th , 12 to 2.30pm: Housing - Register
Friday Feb 7 th , 12 to 2.30pm: Care and caring - Register
Friday March 7 th , 12 to 2.30pm: Learning and employment - Register
Friday April 4 th , 12 to 2.30pm: Health and wellbeing - Register
The Partnership invites Initial Expression of Interest for a funded research project.
We would like civil society organisations (CSOs) and community groups to take the lead in developing a collaborative research project with UWS academics.
The Partnership is interested in receiving proposals that address one or both of the following broad themes:
The Partnership welcomes your Initial Expression of Interest, if:
The Partnership wants to place civil society organisations or community groups working with communities that are marginalised or under-represented in policy-making and decision-making in Scotland at the centre of the funded project.
Marginalised or under-represented groups may include people who have low incomes, single-parents, unpaid carers, people with a disability, or those who are members of a minority ethnic group.
Through this Call, the Partnership wants to match the research needs identified by organisations or groups to the research expertise of academics at the University of the West of Scotland.
If you are interested in developing an Initial Expression of Interest, please read the Information sheet and take a look at the application process flow chart, both linked below.
Should you have questions on this Call and on the application process, please contact scotland@oxfam.org.uk .

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/research/research-institutes-centres-groups/institute-of-biomedical-environmental-health-research:
The Institute of Biomedical & Health Research focuses on humans and their environment, addressing core research issues in human health and disease, in drug discovery and design, through to human impact on the environment and the impact of environment on human health.
Our multidisciplinary community brings together life, physical and environmental scientists in a holistic approach to research.
Aims
Activity
Long Term Vision
The Centre for Musculoskeletal Science (CMS) is a highly successful collaborative team of scientists and clinicians from UWS and the University of Glasgow who form a thriving scientific research environment with direct clinical links.
The group focus is on regulatory mechanisms and their disturbance during chronic inflammatory diseases, and in development and evaluation of novel drug therapies.
Main research themes include arthritis and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
Our research spans areas of microbiology from human to environmental health.
Within the human health remit we have projects in infection control in public health to studies of the immune response and development of new medicines for parasitic infections.
Within the environmental field, we are studying the emergence of antimicrobial resistance and how microbes can be utilised in bioremediation.
Our research partners include international institutions, industry and the NHS.
Our research interests focus on the inextricable link between human health and health of our environment.
From geochemical cycling through anthropogenic contamination to the impact of human activities on animal welfare, our combination of biologists, environmental scientists, chemists, engineers and mathematicians allows us to address the relationship between humans and their environment.
Research Team: Dr W Mackay, Prof.
Fiona Henriquez, Kenny Richardson, Ngozi Amaeze, Dr Claire Chalmers
Coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 has highlighted the importance of infection control in healthcare settings and in the community.
We have been working continuously since the beginning of the outbreak with academic and industry partners to support the Worldwide effort to contain the pandemic.
Our research and consultancy work focuses on the prevention of the spread of infection in healthcare settings, by investigating the role of the built environment and staff uniforms and PPE in the spread of infection.
We also have expertise in studying the persistence and survival of pathogens in healthcare settings and how common environmental factors contribute to this, and disinfection susceptibility.
Work with the Scottish Ambulance Service has focused on the washing of ambulance staff uniforms and cleaning of ambulances as measures to reduce the risk of the spread of infection.
Our work with companies focuses on the independent evaluation of disinfection technologies, supported by our new clinical research laboratories including a purpose built infection control single occupancy hospital isolation room for the safe testing of disinfection technologies and procedures.
In 2020-2021, we have collaborated with 9 different industrial partners, including international companies on COVID-19 related work, optimising and validating new anti-viral and anti-bacterial disinfectant agents (including environmentally friendly compounds) and protocols and optimising the efficacy of fabric face coverings and contributing to government ‘calls for evidence for COVID-19 related matters’.
Projects have been funded through the Scottish Funding Council, Innovate UK and consultancy.
Research Team: Dr Gary Litherland, Dr Anne Crilly, Dr Andrew MacKenzie, Dr Iain McLellan, Dr W Mackay, Dr Andisheh Bakhshi, Dr Robin Freeburn, Prof Carl Goodyear, Prof John Lockhart, Dr Joanna Brzeszczynska, Lynette Dunning, Kenny Richardson
COPD is an incurable and progressive lung condition characterised by progressive airflow reduction, breathing difficulties and irreversible lung damage – and ranks as the 3 rd leading cause of death world-wide .
Despite the high prevalence of COPD and associated mortality and morbidity within Scotland and in both Ireland and Northern Ireland, there has been insufficient research focus in this field.
Funded by €7.7m Interreg VA funding from the Special EU Programmes Body, our partnered initiative to combat COPD in these regions has established a new research training hub – the Borders Regions Airways Training Hub (BREATH).
Within BREATH we have brought together 50 researchers (including 19 PhD students) to investigate key aspects of COPD pathology including airway epithelial and smooth muscle dysfunction, focusing on novel roles for PARs.
http://breath-copd.org
Research Team: Prof Andrew Hursthouse, Dr Iain McLellan, Dr Steven Kelly, Dr Richard Thacker
Partnership established with HNUST since 2015, resulted in Chinese Government Fellowship awards to Prof Hursthouse as 100 Talent High End Visiting Scholar appointed to the Hunan Regional government Key Lab.
The Key Lab was established to research improved methods to explore and assess mineral resource and address control and remediation of environmental impacts.
Focused on: 1.
Innovative geophysical methods to improve exploration in complex physical terrains; 2.
better geological evaluation of resources helps to target exploitation strategies and minimise environmental disturbance and 3.
New methods to treat environmental pollutants reducing impact and providing strategies to deal with legacy environmental pollution.
These address real local issues but are also common world-wide – both within China and across terrains where resources are exploited for historical mining and new exploitation strategies.
Research collaboration between the 30+ academic staff in HNUST and CER members has led to publications in waste management, resource discovery and mitigation of environmental impact of exploitation.
Staff exchange and visiting fellowships to UWS and PhD studentships.
It has also supported development of specialist training for Chinese Government delegates through SAFEA awards.
http://hnoilgas.hnust.edu.cn/
Research Team: Prof Brian Quinn, Prof Fiona Henriquez, Dr Mhairi Alexander
We are developing new diagnostic tools to assess fish health in aquaculture (SAIC, KTP, industry funded).
Identifying fish blood parameters which are indicative of potential disease outbreaks or health problems can act as an early warning measure.
We are understanding how Neoparamoeba causes amoebic gill disease to design effective treatment.
Neoparamoeba causes amoebic gill disease, which impacts fish health and coastal economies.
Research Team: Prof  Fiona Henriquez, Dr Roderick Williams, Dr W Mackay
Award-winning research, which focused on the sight-threatening parasite Acanthamoeba and the development of technology to prevent potential blindness in contact lens wearers by inhibiting the essential metabolic pathways of Acanthamoeba, which the human host is unable to do.
The project is core to an international network of Ophathalmologists, contact lens specialists, patients, industry and academic researchers with the aim to protect eye health, aligning to UN SDG 3.
Research Team: Prof John Lockhart, Prof Carl Goodyear, Dr Anne Crilly, Dr Gary Litherland, Dr Andrew MacKenzie, Dr Carmen Huesa, Lynette Dunning
Osteoarthritis (OA) is a very common and painful condition that affects joints like hips, knees, hands and feet.
It occurs when soft protecting tissue thins and roughens, compromising the natural cushion that normally separates the ends of bones.
This degenerative disease represents a significant unmet medical need - joint replacement and other treatment is a major drain on health services around the world, and the condition has a considerable negative impact on quality of life for hundreds of millions of people.
There is as yet no way of curing osteoarthritis.
For decades it’s been accepted that cartilage deteriorates with age, leading to stress on the bone.
One revolutionary finding by our UWS team is that in many cases the bone changes before the cartilage – which casts an entirely different perspective on OA.
Research on protease-activated receptors (PARs) and the role they play are leading to significant breakthroughs in our understanding of the disease.
UWS researchers, as part of a consortium of universities, have been awarded a £1.2 million programme grant from Versus Arthritis to bring together, for the first time, experts across 5 universities in bone, matrix, molecular and systems biology in a concerted effort to better understand osteoarthritis – particularly in dissecting what role the matriptase-PAR2 axis contributes to OA pathogenesis.
Research Team: Prof Kath Sloman, Dr Mhairi Alexander, Dr Frances Orton, Dr Phillip Cowie, Prof.
Fiona Henriquez, Dr Iain McLellan, Prof.
Jose Alcaraz-Calero, Prof.
Brian Quinn.
Our work on aquatic animal health and welfare brings together a diversity of aquatic researchers whose research has impacts within aquaculture, conservation, animal welfare and ecotoxicology.
Working with industrial collaborators we are developing behavioural tools to test the attractiveness of novel diets to shrimp in aquaculture and improving the welfare of fish held and transported within the ornamental trade.
Our conservation-related projects range from understanding how pollutants affect heath and reproduction in wild amphibians and how large-scale coral reef rehabilitation in Indonesia influences the return of fish communities.
Ecotoxicology projects within the group investigate the impact of microplastics on aquatic organisms and the effects of multiple stressors on health and reproduction in freshwater invertebrates.
Research Team: Prof.
Fiona Henriquez, Prof Andrew Hursthouse, Prof John Connolly, Dr Iain McLellan, Dr Roderick Williams, Dr Kiri Rodgers, Dr Regina Esiovwa, Ronnie Mooney
This work has stemmed from a cross-disciplinary collaboration and focuses on addressing the emergence of AMR in the environment and the development of mitigation strategies with a focus on a ‘One Health’ approach.
Our research includes the role of protists in protecting and influence resistant bacteria and the impact of anthropogenic influence has had on microbial communities.
The work is funded by NERC and involves geochemistry, social science, microbiology and engineering disciplines.
Senior Lecturer in Animal Behaviour
Email: mhairi.alexander@uws.ac.uk
Pure profile: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/mhairi-alexander
Lecturer in Statistics
Email: andisheh.bakhshi@uws.ac.uk
Deputy Dean
Email: claire.chalmers@uws.ac.uk
Pure profile: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/claire-chalmers
Lecturer in Zoology
Email: phillip.cowie@uws.ac.uk
Pure profile: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/phillip-cowie
Lecturer in Immunology; BREATH Principal Investigator
Email: anne.crilly@uws.ac.uk
Pure portal: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/anne-crilly
Senior Lecturer in Forensic Science
Email: ciaran.ewins@uws.ac.uk
Pure profile: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/ciaran-ewins
Senior Lecturer in Cell Biology
Email: robin.freeburn@uws.ac.uk
Pure profile: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/robin-freeburn
Professor of Parasitology
Email: fiona.henriquez@uws.ac.uk
Pure profile: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/fiona-henriquez-mui
Professor of Environmental Geochemistry
Email: Andrew.hursthouse@uws.ac.uk
Pure profile: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/andrew-hursthouse
Lecturer in Biomedical Science
Email: farah.jaber@uws.ac.uk
Pure profile: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/farah-jaber
Lecturer in Microbiology
Email: steven.kelly@uws.ac.uk
Pure profile: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/steven-kelly
Lecturer in Cell and Cartilage Biology; BREATH Principal Investigator
Email: gary.litherland@uws.ac.uk
Pure profile: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/gary-litherland
Professor, School of Health and Life Sciences, Centre for Musculoskeletal Science
Email: John.Lockhart@uws.ac.uk
Pure profile: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/john-lockhart
Lecturer in Pharmacology
Email: andrew.mackenzie@uws.ac.uk
Pure profile: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/andrew-mackenzie
Reader in Infection Control
Email: w.mackay@uws.ac.uk
Pure profile: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/william-mackay
Head of Division; Senior Lecturer in Cell Biology
Email: gail.mcgarvie@uws.ac.uk
Pure profile: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/gail-mcgarvie
Senior Lecturer in Environmental Chemistry
Email: iain.mclellan@uws.ac.uk
Pure profile: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/iain-mclellan
Senior Lecturer in Immunology
Email: fiona.menzies@uws.ac.uk
Pure profile: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/fiona-menzies
Lecturer in Safety, Health and Environment
Email: jan.miller@uws.ac.uk
Pure profile: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/jan-miller
Lecturer in Forensic Science
Email: carrie.mullen@uws.ac.uk
Pure profile: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/carrie-mullen
Lecturer of Ecotoxicology
Email: frances.orton@uws.ac.uk
Professor of Ecotoxicology
Email: brian.quinn@uws.ac.uk
Pure profile: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/brian-quinn
Professor of Aquatic Biology
Email: katherine.sloman@uws.ac.uk
Pure profile: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/kath-sloman
Lecturer in Analytical Chemistry (Microbial Natural Product Chemistry)
Email: mostafa.rateb@uws.ac.uk
Pure profile: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/mostafa-rateb
Senior Lecturer in Agricultural Entomology
Email: richard.thacker@uws.ac.uk
Pure profile: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/richard-thacker
Lecturer in Mathematics
alan.terry@uws.ac.uk
Lecturer in Nanochemistry
Email: david.thompson@uws.ac.uk
Pure profile: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/david-thompson
Lecturer in Environmental Biology
Email: james.turner@uws.ac.uk
Pure profile: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/jamie-turner
Lecturer in Microbiology & Metabolomics
Email: roderick.williams@uws.ac.uk
Pure profile: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/roderick-williams
Lecturer in Organic Chemistry
Email: mohammed.yaseen@uws.ac.uk
Pure profile: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/mohammed-yaseen
Scottish Alliance for Geoscience, Environment and Society Marine Alliance for Science and Technology for Scotland (MASTS) Scottish Universities Life Sciences Alliance (SULSA)

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/research/research-institutes-centres-groups/sport-and-physical-activity-research-institute-spari:
The Sport and Physical Activity Research Institute (SPARI) has over a decade of outputs, funding applications, and REF submissions.
In REF2021, half of our outputs were considered world internationally excellent, while a further almost a fifth were considered world-leading.
We contributed internationally excellent 3* impact case studies and provided an internationally leading environment, ranked as the highest in UWS.
The internationally recognised Shanghai Rankings place us as the highest-ranked Sports Science research institute in Scotland and 4th in the UK.
SPARI exists to support staff in their research ambitions and helps develop funding submissions, impact case studies, collaboration, and network building.
We conduct research into the physiology, psychology, and sociology of sport, exercise and physical activity.
This research encompasses a variety of domains, including basic mechanistic science, applied sport performance, and the role of physical activity in health and well-being.
The Institute has a strong track record of outputs and funding and has received support from NIHR, CSO, and various regional and national charities.
SPARI Research themes are organised into Special Interest Groups (SIGs).
Currently we have 3 main SIGs:
mHealth refers to the use of mobile devices to support individual or population-level wellbeing and public health.
The ubiquitous nature of mobile technology means that mHealth has the potential to provide scalable improvements in health outcomes.
The mHealth special interest group focuses on how we can best use this approach in a variety of conditions, evaluates the benefits and limitations of using mHealth, and seeks to develop new and validated instruments for use in remote health monitoring.
The SPIG promotes elective research and disseminates evidence-based and best-practice knowledge to improve athlete health, fitness, and sports performance.
In line with the broad scope of SPARI, the SPIG targets include a broad range of multidisciplinary, theoretical/basic (i.e., mechanistic), and applied (i.e., on-field) research pertaining to both individual and team-sport disciplines.
The SPIG also provides an active forum for networking, discussion, activities, knowledge sharing and debate both among members (i.e., staff development) and external collaborators/partners (i.e., creating REFerable impact) who share mutual interests.
The QRN aims to support staff who utilise qualitative approaches in their research.
This work ranges from work embedded in sociological and socio-cultural perspectives to research trials using qualitative methods to evaluate how sports performers, or patients, respond to a particular intervention.
As a result, the QRN has an active and diverse membership who meet regularly to host external speakers and consider different research paradigms underpinning qualitative approaches.
SPARI Lead Email: nicholas.sculthorpe@uws.ac.uk Tel: 01698 283100 PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/nicholas-sculthorpe
SPARI Vice Lead Email: vish.unnithan@uws.ac.uk Tel: 01698 283100 PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/viswanath-unnithan
mHealth SIG Convenor Email: Lawrence.hayes@uws.ac.uk Tel: 01698 283100 PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/lawrence-hayes
Sport Performance SIG Convenor Email: antonio.delloiacono@uws.ac.uk Tel: 01698 283100 PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/antonio-dello-iacono
Qualitative Research Network Lead Email: david.carless@uws.ac.uk Tel: 01698 283100 PURE profile link: https://research-portal.uws.ac.uk/en/persons/david-carless
Comparison of physical activity metrics from two research-grade accelerometers worn on the non-dominant wrist and thigh in children.
Journal of Sport Science.
Duncan Buchan.
Concentric phase assistance enhances eccentric peak power during flywheel squats: intersession reliability and the linear relationship between concentric and eccentric phases.
International Journal of Sports Physiology and Performance.
Antonio DelloIacono.
Programming high-speed and sprint running exposure in football: beliefs and practices of more than 100 practitioners worldwide.
Vish Unnithan, Antonio DelloIacono.
Physical activity levels in asthma: relationship with disease severity, body mass index and novel accelerometer-derived metrics.
Journal of Asthma.
The effect of dietary anthocyanins on biochemical, physiological, and subjective exercise recovery: a systematic review and meta-analysis Critical Reviews in Food Science and Nutrition.
Rachel Kimble.
The relationship of oral health with progression of physical frailty among older adults: a longitudinal study composed of two cohorts of older adults from the United Kingdom and United States.
Journal of the American Medical Directors Association.
Encouraging togetherness during a national lockdown: the influence of relationship-oriented personal-disclosure mutual-sharing on team functioning in academy soccer coaches.
The Sport Psychologist.
Harry Warburton.
Differences in body composition, static balance, field test performance, and academic achievement in 10-12-year-old soccer players.
Frontiers in Physiology.
Lawrence Hayes.
A worldwide survey on the practices and perceptions of submaximal fitness tests in team sports.
Reliability, familiarisation effect and comparisons between a pre-determined and a self-determined isometric squat testing protocol: International Journal of Sports Physiology and Performance.
Antonio DelloIacono, Vish Unnithan.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/research/research-institutes-centres-groups/alzheimer-scotland-centre-for-policy-and-practice:
Alzheimer Scotland Centre for Policy and Practice provides a high quality environment for applied research, education and social enterprise.
The Alzheimer Scotland Centre for Policy and Practice (ASCPP) is a collaborative partnership between University of the West of Scotland and Alzheimer Scotland.
The Centre team is dedicated to excellence through dementia education and research based scholarship.
We work collaboratively through a range of partnerships in practice and with involvement of people whose lives are affected by dementia.
Our team is comprised of an extremely dedicated group of colleagues with specialist knowledge across gerontology, mental health, nursing, psychology, sociology and psychiatry.
The page outlines our proposed MSc in Ageing, Frailty, and Dementia, research degree study options (PhD, MPhil, MRes) and our educational ethos and approach.
Through our applied dementia research and enterprise projects we endeavour to apply evidence-based knowledge to influence policy, advance practice and improve lives.
Public and Political Engagement
Supporting family carers affected by dementia
See our social media channels for regular updates on our activities and our 'Publication of the month' feature.
TWITTER FACEBOOK YOUTUBE

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/research/united-nations-sustainable-development-goals/1-end-poverty:
Globally, the number of people living in extreme poverty declined from 36 per cent in 1990 to 10 per cent in 2015.
But the pace of change is decelerating and the COVID-19 crisis risks reversing decades of progress in the fight against poverty.
New researchpublished by the UNU World Institute for Development Economics Research warns that the economic fallout from the global pandemic could increase global poverty by as much as half a billion people, or 8% of the total human population.
This would be the first time that poverty has increased globally in thirty years, since 1990.
More than 700 million people, or 10 per cent of the world population, still live in extreme poverty today, struggling to fulfil the most basic needs like health, education, and access to water and sanitation, to name a few.
The majority of people living on less than $1.90 a day live in sub-Saharan Africa.
Worldwide, the poverty rate in rural areas is 17.2 per cent—more than three times higher than in urban areas.
For those who work, having a job does not guarantee a decent living.
In fact, 8 per cent of employed workers and their families worldwide lived in extreme poverty in 2018.
One out of five children live in extreme poverty.
Ensuring social protection for all children and other vulnerable groups is critical to reduce poverty.
Collectively UWS researchers  across all Research Institutes, Centres and Groups (uws.ac.uk/research/research-institutes-centres-groups/) are working towards this goal.
BACK TO GOALS

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/research/united-nations-sustainable-development-goals/2-zero-hunger:
Current estimates show that nearly 690 million people are hungry, or 8.9 percent of the world population – up by 10 million people in one year and by nearly 60 million in five years.
The world is not on track to achieve Zero Hunger by 2030.
If recent trends continue, the number of people affected by hunger would surpass 840 million by 2030.
According to the World Food Programme, 135 million suffer from acute hunger largely due to man-made conflicts, climate change and economic downturns.
The COVID-19 pandemic could now double that number, putting an additional 130 million people at risk of suffering acute hunger by the end of 2020.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/research/united-nations-sustainable-development-goals/3-healthy-and-well-being:
Ensuring healthy lives and promoting well-being at all ages is essential to sustainable development.
Currently, the world is facing a global health crisis unlike any other — COVID-19 is spreading human suffering, destabilizing the global economy and upending the lives of billions of people around the globe.
Before the pandemic, major progress was made in improving the health of millions of people .
Significant strides were made in increasing life expectancy and reducing some of the common killers associated with child and maternal mortality.
But more efforts are needed to fully eradicate a wide range of diseases and address many different persistent and emerging health issues.
By focusing on providing more efficient funding of health systems, improved sanitation and hygiene, and increased access to physicians, significant progress can be made in helping to save the lives of millions.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/research/united-nations-sustainable-development-goals/4-quality-education:
Over the past decade, major progress was made towards increasing access to education and school enrolment rates at all levels, particularly for girls.
Nevertheless, about 260 million children were still out of school in 2018 — nearly one fifth of the global population in that age group.
And more than half of all children and adolescents worldwide are not meeting minimum proficiency standards in reading and mathematics.
In 2020, as the COVID-19 pandemic spread across the globe, a majority of countries announced the temporary closure of schools, impacting more than 91 per cent of students worldwide.
By April 2020, close to 1.6 billion children and youth were out of school.
And nearly 369 million children who rely on school meals needed to look to other sources for daily nutrition.
Never before have so many children been out of school at the same time, disrupting learning and upending lives, especially the most vulnerable and marginalised.
The global pandemic has far-reaching consequences that may jeopardize hard won gains made in improving global education.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/research/united-nations-sustainable-development-goals/5-achieve-gender-equality:
There has been progress over the last decades: More girls are going to school, fewer girls are forced into early marriage, more women are serving in parliament and positions of leadership, and laws are being reformed to advance gender equality.
Despite these gains, many challenges remain: discriminatory laws and social norms remain pervasive, women continue to be underrepresented at all levels of political leadership, and 1 in 5 women and girls between the ages of 15 and 49 report experiencing physical or sexual violence by an intimate partner within a 12-month period.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/research/united-nations-sustainable-development-goals/6-clean-water-and-sanitation:
Worldwide, one in three people do not have access to safe drinking water , two out of five people do not have a basic hand-washing facility with soap and water, and more than 673 million people still practice open defecation .
The COVID-19 pandemic has demonstrated the critical importance of sanitation, hygiene and adequate access to clean water for preventing and containing diseases.
Hand hygiene saves lives .
According to the World Health Organization, handwashing is one of the most effective actions you can take to reduce the spread of pathogens and prevent infections, including the COVID-19 virus.
Yet billions of people still lack safe water sanitation, and funding is inadequate.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/research/united-nations-sustainable-development-goals/7-affordable-and-clean-energy:
The world is making progress towards Goal 7, with encouraging signs that energy is becoming more sustainable and widely available.
Access to electricity in poorer countries has begun to accelerate, energy efficiency continues to improve, and renewable energy is making impressive gains in the electricity sector.
Nevertheless, more focused attention is needed to improve access to clean and safe cooking fuels and technologies for 3 billion people, to expand the use of renewable energy beyond the electricity sector, and to increase electrification in sub-Saharan Africa.
The Energy Progress Report provides global dashboard to register progress on energy access, energy efficiency and renewable energy.
It assesses the progress made by each country on these three pillars and provides a snapshot of how far we are from achieving the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals targets.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/research/united-nations-sustainable-development-goals/8-decent-work-and-economic-growth:
COVID-19 has disrupted billions of lives and endangered the global economy.
The International Monetary Fund (IMF) expects a global recession as bad as or worse than in 2009.
As job losses escalate, the International Labor Organization estimates that nearly half of the global workforce is at risk of losing their livelihoods.
Even before the outbreak of COVID-19 , one in five countries – home to billions of people living in poverty – were likely to see per capita incomes stagnate or decline in 2020.
Now, the economic and financial shocks associated with COVID-19—such as disruptions to industrial production, falling commodity prices, financial market volatility, and rising insecurity—are derailing the already tepid economic growth and compounding heightened risks from other factors.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/research/united-nations-sustainable-development-goals/9-industry-innovation-and-infrastructure:
Inclusive and sustainable industrialisation, together with innovation and infrastructure , can unleash dynamic and competitive economic forces that generate employment and income.
They play a key role in introducing and promoting new technologies, facilitating international trade and enabling the efficient use of resources.
However, the world still has a long way to go to fully tap this potential.
Least developed countries, in particular, need to accelerate the development of their manufacturing sector if they are to meet the 2030 target, and scale up investment in scientific research and innovation.
Global manufacturing growth has been steadily declining, even before the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic.
The pandemic is hitting manufacturing industries hard and causing disruptions in global value chains and the supply of products.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/research/united-nations-sustainable-development-goals/10-reduced-inequalities:
Inequality within and among countries is a persistent cause for concern.
Despite some positive signs toward reducing inequality in some dimensions, such as reducing relative income inequality in some countries and preferential trade status benefiting lower-income countries, inequality still persists .
COVID-19 has deepened existing inequalities , hitting the poorest and most vulnerable communities the hardest.
It has put a spotlight on economic inequalities and fragile social safety nets that leave vulnerable communities to bear the brunt of the crisis.
At the same time, social, political and economic inequalities have amplified the impacts of the pandemic.
On the economic front, the COVID-19 pandemic has significantly increased global unemployment and dramatically slashed workers’ incomes.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/research/united-nations-sustainable-development-goals/11-sustainable-cities-and-communities:
The world is becoming increasingly urbanized.
Since 2007, more than half the world’s population has been living in cities , and that share is projected to rise to 60 per cent by 2030.
Cities and metropolitan areas are powerhouses of economic growth—contributing about 60 per cent of global GDP.
However, they also account for about 70 per cent of global carbon emissions and over 60 per cent of resource use.
Rapid urbanization is resulting in a growing number of slum dwellers, inadequate and overburdened infrastructure and services (such as waste collection and water and sanitation systems, roads and transport), worsening air pollution and unplanned urban sprawl.
The impact of COVID-19 will be most devastating in poor and densely populated urban areas, especially for the one billion people living in informal settlements and slums worldwide, where overcrowding also makes it difficult to follow recommended measures such as social distancing and self-isolation.
The UN food agency, FAO, warned that hunger and fatalities could rise significantly in urban areas, without measures to ensure that poor and vulnerable residents have access to food .

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/research/united-nations-sustainable-development-goals/12-responsible-consumption-and-production:
Worldwide consumption and production — a driving force of the global economy — rest on the use of the natural environment and resources in a way that continues to have destructive impacts on the planet.
Economic and social progress over the last century has been accompanied by environmental degradation that is endangering the very systems on which our future development — indeed, our very survival — depends.
A few facts and figures :
The COVID-19 pandemic offers countries an opportunity to build recovery plans that will reverse current trends and change our consumption and production patterns towards a more sustainable future.
Sustainable consumption and production is about doing more and better with less.
It is also about decoupling economic growth from environmental degradation, increasing resource efficiency and promoting sustainable lifestyles.
Sustainable consumption and production can also contribute substantially to poverty alleviation and the transition towards low-carbon and green economies.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/research/united-nations-sustainable-development-goals/13-climate-action:
2019 was the second warmest year on record and the end of the warmest decade (2010- 2019) ever recorded.
Carbon dioxide (CO2) levels and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere rose to new records in 2019.
Weather patterns are changing, sea levels are rising, and weather events are becoming more extreme.
Although greenhouse gas emissions are projected to drop about 6 per cent in 2020 due to travel bans and economic slowdowns resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, this improvement is only temporary.
Climate change is not on pause.
Once the global economy begins to recover from the pandemic, emissions are expected to return to higher levels.
Saving lives and livelihoods requires urgent action to address both the pandemic and the climate emergency.
The Paris Agreement, adopted in 2015, aims to strengthen the global response to the threat of climate change by keeping a global temperature rise this century well below 2 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels.
The agreement also aims to strengthen the ability of countries to deal with the impacts of climate change, through appropriate financial flows, a new technology framework and an enhanced capacity building framework.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/research/united-nations-sustainable-development-goals/14-life-below-water:
Our rainwater, drinking water, weather, climate, coastlines, much of our food, and even the oxygen in the air we breathe, are all ultimately provided and regulated by the sea.
Careful management of this essential global resource is a key feature of a sustainable future.
However, at the current time, there is a continuous deterioration of coastal waters owing to pollution, and ocean acidification is having an adversarial effect on the functioning of ecosystems and biodiversity.
This is also negatively impacting small scale fisheries.
Saving our ocean must remain a priority.
Marine biodiversity is critical to the health of people and our planet.
Marine protected areas need to be effectively managed and well-resourced and regulations need to be put in place to reduce overfishing, marine pollution and ocean acidification.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/research/united-nations-sustainable-development-goals/15-life-on-land:
But it is under increasing stress.
Human activity has altered almost 75 per cent of the earth’s surface, squeezing wildlife and nature into an ever-smaller corner of the planet.
Around 1 million animal and plant species are threatened with extinction – many within decades – according to the 2019 Global Assessment Report on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Service.
The report called for transformative changes to restore and protect nature.
It found that the health of ecosystems on which we and all other species depend is deteriorating more rapidly than ever, affecting the very foundations of our economies, livelihoods, food security, health and quality of life worldwide.
Deforestation and desertification – caused by human activities and climate change – pose major challenges to sustainable development and have affected the lives and livelihoods of millions of people.
Forests are vitally important for sustaining life on Earth, and play a major role in the fight against climate change.
And investing in land restoration is critical for improving livelihoods, reducing vulnerabilities, and reducing risks for the economy.
The health of our planet also plays an important role in the emergence of zoonotic diseases, i.e.
diseases that are transmissible between animals and humans.
As we continue to encroach on fragile ecosystems, we bring humans into ever-greater contact with wildlife, enabling pathogens in wildlife to spill over to livestock and humans, increasing the risk of disease emergence and amplification.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/research/united-nations-sustainable-development-goals/16-peace-justice-and-strong-institutions:
The number of people fleeing war, persecution and conflict exceeded 70 million in 2018, the highest level recorded by the UN refugee agency (UNHCR) in almost 70 years.
In 2019, the United Nations tracked 357 killings and 30 enforced disappearances of human rights defenders, journalists and trade unionists in 47 countries.
And the births of around one in four children under age 5 worldwide are never officially recorded, depriving them of a proof of legal identity crucial for the protection of their rights and for access to justice and social services.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/research/united-nations-sustainable-development-goals/17-partnerships-for-the-goal:
A successful development agenda requires inclusive partnerships — at the global, regional, national and local levels — built upon principles and values, and upon a shared vision and shared goals placing people and the planet at the centre.
Many countries require Official Development Assistance to encourage growth and trade.
Yet, aid levels are falling and donor countries have not lived up to their pledge to ramp up development finance.
Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the global economy is projected to contract sharply, by 3 per cent, in 2020, experiencing its worst recession since the Great Depression.
Strong international cooperation is needed now more than ever to ensure that countries have the means to recover from the pandemic, build back better and achieve the Sustainable Development Goals.
Collectively UWS researchers  across all Research Institutes, Centres and Groups are working towards this goal.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/open-days-info-sessions/undergraduate-open-days-and-events/which-uws-open-day-is-best-to-attend:
We are a multi-campus University with a wide range of programmes available to study.
Our programmes are taught across four Scottish campuses in Paisley, Lanarkshire, Ayr and Dumfries.
You should attend the campus open day that showcases the programmes you are interested in studying for the most valuable experience.
Close to town, on the banks of the River Ayr, the state-of-the-art Ayr Campus is home to a range of UWS degree programmes including Education, Childhood Studies, Nursing, Commercial Music, Filmmaking & Screen Writing and much more.
Our Ayr Campus Open Day is relevant for the following courses:
Register for Ayr Open Day
The Dumfries Campus Open Day is a chance to find out more about UWS study options in Dumfries including Childhood Studies, Computing Science, Adult Nursing, Mental Health Nursing and Social Work.
The Dumfries Campus Open Day is relevant for the following courses:
Register for Dumfries Open Day
The UWS Lanarkshire campus is located within the dynamic Hamilton International Technology Park and is home to UWS degree programmes including Nursing, Midwifery, Life Sciences, Sports, Computing, Business, Education, Engineering, Social Science and much more.
Our Lanarkshire Campus Open Day is relevant for the following courses:
Register for Lanarkshire Open Day
Our largest campus and a short train ride from Glasgow, UWS Paisley provides students with an exciting and inspiring learning environment.
UWS Paisley offers a range of courses and research opportunities in Business, Social Sciences, Technology and Computing, Engineering, Physical Sciences, Health and Life Sciences.
The Paisley Campus Open Day is relevant for the following courses:
Register for Paisley Open Day
Join us for one of our Undergraduate Open Days and Information Sessions and learn more about studying at UWS.
Each UWS campus has its own individual character, architecture and social scene.
Find out more about what makes each campus a unique place to study.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/current-students/student-enrolment-and-inductions/enrolment-at-uws/student-enrolment-for-new-students:
Academic Year 2025/26 has three terms (Terms 1, 2 and 3 respectively).
These begin in September, January and May each academic year.
We're thrilled to welcome all of our new students each term and to help you to make an exciting and positive start to your studies.
Each term we plan a range of activities and opportunities to make friends, meet your tutors, learn about our Students’ Union, experience our vibrant campuses and much more.
In welcoming you to our campuses, we’re confident you'll have a fantastic start to your time with us, and that you'll enjoy the variety of things that make your student experience unique at UWS.
You'll receive an email when it's time for you to enrol for the new academic year.
This email will contain instructions on how to get started with your studies, including setting up your online security and enrolling.
All the information you need is also available on this page.
If you were not prompted to set up your password, please do so now.
To set up your password:
i.
Go to outlook.office365.com .
ii.
Select your profile picture or initials at the top right of the screen.
iii.
Select View my account.
For more information on setting up Multi-Factor Authentication, you can view our MFA set-up guide here.
You can also view our IT induction video which includes instructions on setting up security as well as other important information about our IT systems and support.
IT induction video
Enrolment is the formal process all students go through, each year of study, to register as a student at the University.
You will receive an email from the University with instructions on how to enrol.
Once you have completed step one above, please click below to access enrolment.
Enrol here
Enrolment can also be accessed via the Student App : My Student Records > Student > Online Enrolment.
Enrolment lets us report to agencies such as Student Awards Agency Scotland (SAAS) and Student Loans Company (SLC), to confirm your funding arrangement.
We’re processing enrolments manually this year, and therefore it may take slightly longer than the normal five working days for funds from SLC to reach your account.
Once you’re enrolled, you’ll be able to view your timetable via CELCAT Calendar within 24 hours.
INTERNATIONAL STUDENT ENROLMENT
As part of the online enrolment process, we require you to enter your term-time address in the UK.
If you have not yet entered the UK, you may not know your term-time address and we will accept you entering the UWS campus address where your programme is taught.
You can find campus addresses here .
Once you have entered the UK, you will be required to update this address.
You will also be required to provide the original of your passport and BRP once you have arrived in the UK.
We will give you the details of where and when this can be done in due course.
If you already have your BRP, please email a scanned copy to enrol@uws.ac.uk quoting your Student ID.
If you enrol but your Student visa application is unsuccessful, please contact our International Student Support Team through the Hub for a referral appointment
The UWS Student app is the gateway to systems for our students, these will enable you to access:
And a whole lot more including useful information about Sport, Your Student Union and accessing Support Services.
To access search UWS Student app in IOS, Android or visit the Student App website and use the web version.
Select your profile (campus, online student or guest) and log in with your Student ID number and password.
During your time at UWS, check UWS Student app and student email regularly for essential information as well as notifications about events, surveys, news, opportunities and more!
Once you’re enrolled, you will be able to view your timetable via CELCAT Calendar CELCAT Calendar (uws.ac.uk) and Outlook within 24 hours.
Please ensure that you log in to view your timetable.
Should you notice discrepancies within your timetable (a missing module or a clash), you must contact your Programme Leader or School Office.
Should you wish to book for private or group study, please contact Timetable.Office@uws.ac.uk
Your digital student ID is available 24/7 on the UWS Student App after you complete online enrolment.
For more information on student ID cards visit the Student Hub SharePoint site and navigate to Common Enquiries > ID cards.
Please ensure you have completed Step 1: Security Setup before accessing this site.
Please have a look around the enrolment and induction pages for a wide range of information about getting started at UWS.
REGISTERING WITH A DOCTOR
If you need to register with a GP as you have moved away from home to study you can find out all the information you need on doing this at the links below:
SCOTTISH CAMPUSES
LONDON CAMPUS
Induction is a really important part of your university journey and there will be opportunities for you to engage in activities at a university-level, School-level and programme-level throughout this period.
Check out all the Welcome and Induction info
See below for answers to some FAQs.
Q: I have a conditional offer for study at UWS - will I be able to enrol?
A: You will only be able to enrol once the conditions of your offer are met.
When you have the evidence your conditions are met contact UWS Admissions to update your record.
Once Admissions have completed the process you will be able to enrol.
You can contact the Admissions team at admissions@uws.ac.uk
Q: What do I do if I meet my conditions after enrolment is closed?
A: If you receive the conditions required to enrol after the enrolment period officially ends you will require permission from the UWS School you study under for late enrolment permission.
Contact your School Office for advice.
SCHOOL OF BUSINESS & CREATIVE INDUSTRIES
bci@uws.ac.uk
SCHOOL OF COMPUTING, ENGINEERING & PHYSICAL SCIENCES
CEPS@uws.ac.uk
SCHOOL OF EDUCATION & SOCIAL SCIENCES
ess@uws.ac.uk
SCHOOL OF HEALTH & LIFE SCIENCES
hls@uws.ac.uk
Q: I'm stuck on a section of my online enrolment, what do I do?
A: Please send a screenshot or snip of the error message including the error code if there is one and the page of enrolment the issue appears on to enrol@uws.ac.uk
Q: I have not received my enrolment email what do I do?
A: All information is on the Welcome website which is included in the email.
Please refer to the website for all instructions and details.
If you are eligible to enrol the website will explain your next steps.
There is no information in the email required to enrol.
Q: I have enrolled but my timetable is blank, what do I do?
A: After completing your online enrolment, please allow 2-3 days for your timetable to update.
Please ensure you log in to view your timetable.
If it has not updated after 3 working days, please contact the Student Hub via hub@uws.ac.uk
Q: Can I change modules after I have enrolled?
A: In some cases you can change your modules after enrolment, please contact your academic in School office or your Programme Leader to do this.
Q: I am returning from an interruption of studies, where can I find and complete the recommencement of studies form?
Q: What are the requirements for my new password?
Q: I have enrolled but I can't access my Aula/Can't see any modules on my Aula page
A: After completing your online enrolment, please allow 3 working days for AULA to be updated.
If it has not updated after 3 working days, please contact IT helpdesk via helpdesk@uws.ac.uk
Q: I have not received my temporary password, what do I do?
A: Please contact WhatsApp 0141 848 3998, or by email at hub@uws.ac.uk
Q: How do I enrol when in self service Banner?
A: Follow the steps in the Enrolment Guide attached to the email
UWS is committed to looking after any information that you make available to us.
This privacy notice explains when and why we collect personal information about you and how we will use this information, keep it secure how we might share this with others as well as your rights.
Download our Student Enrolment User Guide
Read our Student Enrolment Terms and Conditions
Read more about our our Disclosing Criminal Convictions policy
Everything you need to know about getting started on the new term at UWS.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/current-students/student-enrolment-and-inductions/enrolment-at-uws/student-enrolment-for-returning-student:
These begin in September, January and May each academic year and we are really thrilled to welcome you back.
To begin enrolment please follow the steps below.
To login to UWS systems you need to make sure you have set up the Microsoft Authenticator App.
If you have this skip to step 2.
If not, please follow these steps to complete this before trying to enrol.
ENROL HERE
We would encourage you to enrol as soon as possible, to ensure a smooth start to your studies.
From Friday 16th August, once you’re enrolled you will be able to view your timetable via CELCAT Calendar.
If you enrol but your Tier 4 Visa application is unsuccessful, please contact our International Student Advice Team by emailing Internationaladvice@uws.ac.uk for more information.
If you are a student that had resit exams during Term 3 (summer) 2024/25 academic year, you must wait for an official email to enrol.
Enrolment is only possible once resit marks are processed.
This may be after the date your lecturer or school inform you of the resit outcome.
Please wait for an email to enrol.
Induction isn't only for new students and we'd encourage you to take part in some of our activities at the start of term to help us welcome you back.
Induction activities at uws

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/current-students/student-enrolment-and-inductions/student-induction:
On this page you will be able to find your programme induction information which provides details of all the activities you will undertake during induction.
New students are required to attend a School welcome session as well as their programme induction.
Ayr Campus Monday 8th September, 10am – 11am, GT34
Paisley Campus Undergraduate: Tuesday 9th September, 10am – 11am, G240 Postgraduate: Wednesday 10th September, 10am – 11am, G240
Lanarkshire Campus Thursday 11th September , 10am – 11am, 1.1.18
Paisley Campus Undergraduate: Monday 8th September, 10am – 11am, P118 Postgraduate: Monday 8th September, 11.30am – 12noon, P118 (except MSc IT with Pathways) Monday 8th September MSc IT with Pathways: R101 - See programme induction for full details of welcome session
Dumfries Campus Tuesday 9th September , 1.30pm – 2pm, Room 2.075, Seminar Room 3
Lanarkshire Campus Thursday 11th September , 10am – 11am, 1.2.11
Paisley Campus Tuesday 9th September MSc Psychology, MSc Social Work, PgDip Career Guidance and Development: 9am-10am, P118 BA (Hons) Criminology & Criminal Justice and BA (Hons) Criminology & Psychology: 10am – 11am, P118 BA (Hons) Social Sciences: 11am – 12noon, P118 BSc (Hons) Psychology: 12noon – 1pm, P118
Thursday 11th September Teaching of English to Speakers of Other Languages & BA (Hons) English Language
Lanarkshire Campus Friday 12th September , 9am – 10am, 1.1.08 (all programmes except for the below)
Monday 8th September BA (Hons) Childhood Studies: 2pm – 3pm, 1.1.18
Ayr Campus Thursday 11th September BA (Hons) Education: 12noon – 12.30 pm, GT42 BA (Hons) Education: 12.30pm – 1pm, GT43 BA (Hons) Childhood Studies: 2pm – 3 pm, GT32
Dumfries Campus Wednesday 11th September BA (Hons) Childhood Studies:, online (link to follow), 2pm - 3pm
School welcome sessions will take place on each campus on the dates below.
For details of the specific school welcome session for you, please see your programme induction page.
Lanarkshire Campus Tuesday 9th September
Ayr Campus Wednesday 10th September
Paisley Campus Thursday 11th September
Dumfries Campus Friday 12th September
Each of our respective programmes will have it's own induction in addition to the school induction.
Please find more information on your course induction below.
Undergraduate
Postgraduate
PGDE
We look forward to welcoming you to the UWS London Campus.
To start your student journey, check out our induction schedule for all of the activities taking place at the start of term.
London Campus Induction 2025 PDF
When you join UWS you become part of a School with it's own sense of culture and belonging.
Find out more about the school you will be joining and access your programme induction.
We’d like to wish you a very warm welcome to our School here at UWS
If you have yet to enrol, you should do this as soon as possible to get access to all the information you require and ensure you are registered as a student.
You will receive an email from the University when it is your time to enrol, along with instructions on how to do so.
WELCOME Week and FESTIVAL
Further resources to help you get started at UWS

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/current-students/student-enrolment-and-inductions/uws-welcome-festival:
West Fest is your welcome festival as you begin your journey at UWS.
You can expect to find games and fun activities as well as stalls with useful information about the wide range of support available at UWS.
There will also be information on development opportunities and extra-curricular activities, and other interesting things to engage with at uni.
West Fest runs at the same time as your Student Union Fresher’s Fair so you can visit both and snag all your freebies in one day!
When you attend your School Welcome you will also be able to collect your FREE welcome goodie bag with a few useful items to start your university journey off right!
WEST FEST The Street/Reception 11 am – 3pm
Student Union Fair The Street/Union Area 11 am – 3pm
WEST FEST The Basement Atrium 11 am – 3pm
Student Union Fair The Basement Atrium 11 am – 3pm
Wellbeing Event hosted by West Fest Student Hub 11am - 2pm
WEST FEST The Student Hub 11 am – 3pm
Student Union Fair Student Union Building 11 am – 3pm
WESTFEST Room 2061 1 pm – 3pm
Student Union Fair Room 2061 1 pm – 3pm
Learn more about enrolment and induction at UWS.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/current-students/student-enrolment-and-inductions/enrolment-at-uws:
Everything you need to know about enrolment.
For new students just about to join UWS, this page provides all the guidance you'll need to get off to the best start.
Ready to return to UWS?
This page will provide all the information you need to get the new term started.
Our step-by-step user guide on enrolling at UWS.
If you have applied for a package of student funding, the enrolment process will have an impact on when you receive payments.
It is important to understand and plan for this, as you may not get your f...
The UWS Student Enrolment Terms and Conditions gives you information about us and the legal terms and conditions with which you need to comply with as a condition of your enrolment at UWS.
In respect of fairness and transparency, as well as our responsibility towards students and staff, all applicants and enrolled students, should disclose relevant, unspent criminal convictions.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/current-students/student-enrolment-and-inductions/get-to-know-uws:
This page is intended to provide you with a range of different information that will be useful to you during your studies at UWS.
Have a read through, get to know your term dates and more about the UWS experience.
Get in touch with our friendly teams if you’d like more information.
UWS incorporates four distinctive campuses situated in the west and south-west of Scotland and one in London the capital city of the UK.
The Library supports learning throughout your student journey and provides access to a wide range of books and journals online and in print.
Library staff are available in-person or remotely to assist with any enquiries and offer one-to-one support to help you get the most out of your time at UWS.
UWS LIBRARY
You can contact The Student Hub for support or questions you may have during your student journey at UWS.
There’s a Student Hub on every Scottish campus.
Our friendly Student Hub team can assist you with enrolment, council tax enquiries and payments for tuition and accommodation fees.
You can also access information and appointment booking for the support services available to you.
UWS STUDENT HUB
All students are allocated £10 print credit once they have completed enrolment.
This credit can be used to print on any Multi-Function Print device located on campus.
Procedures for printing can be found on our Student Support SharePoint .
The instructions vary based on the type of device and operating system you are using.
Once this credit has been used students can top up print credit from University of the West of Scotland | Papercut .
Important note: Do not add more credit to your account than you think you will need as a refund on any remaining balance at the end of your studies cannot be requested.
New student enrolment
Returning student enrolment
We have a supportive culture here at UWS, career focused and forward thinking.
From our learning and teaching models, wellbeing, values and commitments.
Our students are at the heart of everything we do.
Our Students' Union are here to represent you, support you, and work with you to improve the student experience at UWS.
There is a wide range of support available to ensure that all students fulfil their potential, achieve their goals and enjoy their time at UWS.
Academic skills are study habits and learning strategies that contribute to overall learning and student success.
The Academic Skills Advisers at UWS offer advice and resources to help students in developing these habits and strategies.
We offer this advice in various ways:
Listen to our podcast
Visit our YouTube channel
For more information on the support available from the Academic Skills Team, visit the Academic Study Skills page .
Your Careers Service is here to help you to achieve your career goals by providing professional careers education, information, advice and guidance.
You can use the resources and services of the Careers Service from first year through to five years after graduation.
For more information on the support available from the Careers Service, visit the Developing Your Career page.
This is also where you can book appointments with a Careers Adviser and book to attend Careers Events.
If personal or emotional problems are making your life difficult, the Counselling Service at UWS can help.
You can talk to one of our counsellors about anything that’s affecting your well-being, big or small.
The counselling team aims to create a safe, affirming and welcoming environment that embraces human diversity.
It’s very important to us to provide equality of services and care to everyone, regardless of age, disability, race, sexual orientation, gender, gender identity, religion or belief.
In addition to counselling and wellbeing support, we encourage students to visit the NHS webpage on health services when starting the new term.
Disability is no barrier to success at UWS.
Our friendly, confidential team will work with you to help identify appropriate support strategies and adjustments tailored to meet your individual needs.
If you have, or think you have a long term medical condition, unseen disability or specific learning difficulty, we will be able to offer you advice and guidance on support available.
Don’t worry if you do not know what type of support you will need, our disability advisers will help you identify which support may be best for you.
Studying at university will likely have a big impact on your money, so planning ahead is key and will help you focus on your studies and complete your course.
Whether you are living away from home for the first time, or are returning to education as a mature student, perhaps with children to support, we have help and advice that everyone can benefit from.
Your Student Funding
You might have already researched your student funding options, and you might have applied already and have this in place for the start of term.
Whether you want to check you’ve applied for everything you can, or still need to make your student funding application, we have a lot of information for you.
You can view our Student Money Magazine , which includes a range of information around student funding, budgeting and much more, all aimed at helping you get the possible start.
You can also find out more at money-fees-funding.
From here, select the type of student you will be, and you can read specific information about the student funding that may be available to you.
You can also find out more about additional funding that may be available.
You should also visit our Student Funding Payments webpage to understand how enrolment impacts the release of any student funding payments you have been awarded.
Managing your Money
The Funding and Advice Team have a lot if information to help you manage your money while a student.
Whether you are an international student adjusting to life in the UK, or a local student adjusting to your student funding, our range of information will help you get the most out of your money.
Visit our Money and Debt Advice webpages for advice on everything from budgeting and planning, to benefits and banking.
Contacting the Funding and Advice Team
The Funding and Advice team are here for you.
If you have any questions or concerns, you can contact the team via email on fundingadvice@uws.ac.uk , you can find us offering support during the Welcome festival as part of your induction, or you can book an appointment through the Student Hub.
Coming to the UK as an international student is an exciting experience.
However we understand that there are also many new challenges and our International Student Advisers are here to help you with many aspects of living and studying away from home.
We can help you with:
If you are a new international student in 2025/26, here are our five things to do in your first week at UWS:
The UK Council for International Student Affairs (UKCISA) website at www.ukcisa.org.uk also provides information on all aspects of international students studying in the UK.
At UWS, we understand that being a carer, a care experienced student or an estranged student can have a big impact on your life and studies.
If you are in any of these categories, we have an extensive range of support available.
As well as going to your classes, there are many ways to make new friends, feel part of the UWS community, and to make sure your university experience is fulfilling, rewarding and fun.
This is not only important for your wellbeing, but students who get involved with other aspects of university life, such as UWS Achievement Awards, Team UWS and societies, tend to do better in their studies, build networks and gain skills which can help while at university and beyond.
Employers are very interested to hear about extra-curricular activities as well as your degree.
To help us make our teaching, facilities and services work for you, we like to ask you what we do well and where we can improve.
You will also receive regular verbal and written feedback from your course team and other University staff to help guide you through your studies.
Keep an eye out for the range of ways we ask for your feedback through student surveys, module evaluations questionnaires, the Students’ Union and Student Representatives.
All you need to know about getting enrolled, induction and getting started at UWS.
Attend Freshers, welcome activities and tours.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/current-students/student-enrolment-and-inductions/international-students:
The International Student Support Team (ISST) help international students with:
Our team can also signpost students to appropriate resources for non-Student visa related enquiries.
We can provide general information and links to UKVI and UKCISA (UK Council for International Student Affairs) resources.
Key resources for enrolled students and all upcoming International Student Support information sessions, welcome and induction events, drop-in sessions and visa information sessions can be accessed at our International Student Support Events Calendar .
Please note, you need to be logged in to your UWS Microsoft 365 account.
For new international student arrivals, please see our induction section which contains important information about the induction events you should join at the beginning of your term at UWS.
For information on travel to UWS, see Our campuses - click on your campus location and then in the next page you will see a link to information on travelling to your campus.
Key resources for new international students are listed below:
Please visit the UK Government website for further information and resources on Student Visa.
By 2025, Biometric Residence Permit (BRP) holders need to take action to create a UKVI account and access their eVisa to prove their rights and immigration status.
Find out what you will need to do, and when, at gov.uk/evisa .
Switching Student Visa & Enrolment Conditions (PDF)
We appreciate that there is a lot of information to take in as a newly arrived international student so we have organised a variety of induction events on each campus to help you settle in.
Please attend the on campus ‘ International Student Support Drop In’ sessions and ‘Life in the UK’ sessions, which will give you an opportunity to ask questions.
Specific campus information is detailed below and once enrolled, check the International students calendar of events .
Student Hub International Student Support
See UWS International Student Events* for up to date information.
*link available to enrolled students only The UWS Finance team are also available in the Student Hub (Paisley campus) on Tuesdays from 11am – 1pm for any students with queries regarding tuition fees.
Student Hub, Export Building
*link available to enrolled students only You will also be invited to campus for your academic school's in-person induction event – check your email to find out which day your event is.
International Students who have never lived or studied in the UK before may benefit from Managing Your Wellbeing When Studying in the UK a free online course designed to help international students adjust to UK culture and offer support and guidance to help students manage stress, tackle negative thoughts.
Sign up - Managing Your Wellbeing When Studying in the UK
Is this your first time living in the UK?
If so, come along to this fun, interactive introduction to life in the UK online session.
Meet other new international students and understand and discuss what to expect about living, working and socialising in the UK.
This is relevant to all newly arrived international students.
Online via Zoom
Joining details
See UWS International Student Events * for up to date information on all online zoom sessions with joining details *link available to enrolled students only.
Walk ‘n’ Talk around Paisley with the International Student Support Team:
Wednesday 10 September (2 – 3 pm)
As part of your induction to welcome new international students to UWS, join us for a short walk (30 – 45 minutes) and fresh air.
This is a great opportunity to meet other students for a chat and explore part of Paisley you might not have seen before.
FREE tour of the Sma' Shot Cottages (Paisley) for UWS international students at a Scottish Campus
Wednesday 17 September - (2 – 3 pm)
Meet at 1.45 pm at the Student Hub entrance (Paisley campus).
The visit is from 2 – 3 pm and students will enter the cottage on a first come, first served basis.
Meet other UWS international students and explore a typical weaver's cottage plus find out about the history of the famous Paisley Pattern - the Sma' Shot Cottages are just a 5-minute walk from UWS Paisley Campus and Storie Street residences.
See the Sma' Shot Cottages website for more information about the cottages.
Discover more information and apply
English Language Support Information And Application 2025 to 2026 [DOC]
Follow the International Student Support Team on social media for the latest information and events:
All you need to know about getting started at UWS and supporting your studies.
Support for international students travelling from abroad to start their study at UWS in the UK.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/current-students/student-enrolment-and-inductions/get-to-know-uws/learning-and-teaching-experience-at-uws:
At UWS, we want you to learn in a way that best suits you to help you get the most out of your studies.
To optimise your UWS experience, we focus on providing opportunities for high-quality, dynamic and engaging on-campus learning and teaching.
All supplemented with accessible online activities, inspired by social media, and using the latest digital platforms.
Not only does this learning model provide the academic tools and support from our experienced academics that you need to succeed in your studies, it's designed to offer the flexibility to allow you to fit your studies around your busy lifestyle.
Our learning model is designed to provide you with a great UWS experience.
You will benefit from rich on-campus engagement.
This is supplemented by live, timetabled and non-timetabled online activities.
We recognise our students have a busy lifestyle, and therefore, our interactive online learning environment provides flexibility in how you access your studies, enabling you to receive all the benefits of learning with others.
Our learning model gives you access to a suite of online tools to supplement your on-campus studies – including video material, academic readings, podcasts and guided activities, such as discussion forums and workshops.
As a UWS student, a range of learning and engagement opportunities will be available to you, such as:
During the Welcome Week, all students will be allocated a Personal Tutor.
For returning students this may be the same one you have had previously or you may be allocated someone new.
This is usually a lecturer from your course who can offer you support and guidance with your studies.
Your Personal Tutor will set up a meeting in the early part of Term 1, and thereafter you should meet at least once per term and maintain regular communication.
It is important that you fully engage with your Personal Tutor, even when things are going well, as they can help you to make good decisions and to get the most out of your time at UWS.
They can also assist if you have a problem with any aspect of your studies.
If you do have any issues, you should contact your Personal Tutor as soon as possible rather than wait until your next scheduled meeting.
As a UWS student you are expected to:
At UWS we want you to succeed throughout your whole UWS journey.
We expect you to engage with your studies and in-person attendance is mandatory.
All students are expected to attend classes and engage academically with their studies.
This means regularly attending and participating with timetabled on-campus classes, joining and being involved with online teaching sessions, completing and submitting assessments on time and engaging with other activities.
At UWS we know that the more you engage with your studies, and with the University as a whole, the greater your chances of success.
To register your attendance, you must scan in on campus using your physical or digital ID card.
You will find this on your UWS student app .
You are expected to scan in once a day if you have timetabled, in-person classes, this allows us to measure whether you are attending your classes and in the event of an emergency it gives us essential information about who is on campus and where they might be.
We know at times the unexpected happens such as feeling ill or issues with public transport.
If you are going to miss a class you must contact your programme leader or academic team and let them know the reason for your absence.
As you come on campus for your classes keep an eye out for the attendance scanners.
Look on the Student App for a full list of locations, click the Locations tile and then choose “Attendance Scanning Points”.
The locations of the scanning points will be dropped onto the map.
Get ready for the start of term at UWS.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/current-students/student-enrolment-and-inductions/get-to-know-uws/support-online-platforms-and-systems:
At UWS there are a number of systems that you will use throughout your time with us.
This page is intended to help you familiarise yourself with each of them.
All UWS students are provided with a Microsoft 365 email and Teams account to communicate and collaborate with fellow students and lecturers.
Your UWS student email address is in the format BannerID@studentmail.uws.ac.uk.
Check your emails regularly – this is where all your UWS communications will be sent.
Log in to office.com with your full UWS email address and network password to access Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook plus additional learning and collaboration tools.
Once enrolled, students can download the Office apps on up to five personal devices free of charge.
All UWS students should set up Multi Factor Authentication – this adds an additional "Second Factor" layer of security by requiring an extra step to validate your login when accessing your University email, Teams, OneDrive files and calendar.
This extra step makes it more difficult for someone else to access your account, even if they discover your username and password.
Once you have the Authenticator app set up on your mobile device, you can use it to change your password any time you need to.
You must keep your email and Microsoft 365 account secure.
Ensure that you:
This is your student portal which is packed with features to help you in your UWS journey once you are enrolled.
The UWS Student App is the place to go to find everything!
Features include campus information, your digital ID card, timetables, sports, careers, support and links to systems.
Aula is your Virtual Learning Environment (VLE).
An online learning platform where you will find resources related to your course and information from your lecturers.
It is important that you visit this website regularly and participate in activities set for your classes.
You can access Aula through the UWS Student App.
The student information system - Self Service Banner - holds a record of your UWS journey from enrolling to exam results to graduating.
You can access Self Service Banner through the ‘My Student Record’ tile in the UWS Student App.
You will receive a note of your student Banner ID in your welcome email – it is in the format B00xxxxxx.
You will use your Banner ID or student email address and network password to log in to UWS systems.
Once enrolled, you will have access to the Self-Service Portal and the Student Support site where you will find information about support and systems that are available to you, such as wifi, printing, library services, loan laptops, student services and student administration.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/current-students/become-a-student-ambassador:
Student Ambassadors work with the University’s UK student recruitment and marketing teams to promote UWS to prospective students and stakeholders.
There are a range of activities and opportunities available to student ambassadors such as:
We are looking for positive, enthusiastic students who like to meet new people and chat about their experience as a UWS applicant and student.
You should have strong communication skills and ideally some experience in either a customer service or public facing role, although this is not required and full training will be provided.
To apply, you must be fully enrolled on an undergraduate or postgraduate programme (at any level) at UWS, and based at either Ayr, Dumfries, Lanarkshire or Paisley campus.
Applications from a variety of backgrounds are encouraged and welcomed.
Applicants must have at least 6 months remaining on their course at UWS.
Kennagh – PhD Student Creative Industries, Ayr Campus
Joshua – BSc (Hons) Applied Bioscience, Lanarkshire Campus
Your hours with us are flexible.
You can arrange your schedule around your academic commitments with no pre-determined hours per week.
Hours offered depend on the events we hold throughout the year – we have several busy periods where significant support is required and therefore more hours are available.
Although this position does not guarantee a consistently high income, it can supplement other sources of income and can also provide you with a variety of experiences and opportunities.
You can gain valuable skills, inspire prospective students and most importantly, have fun!
These roles are hourly paid and fit around your studies.
Register your interest using the form below to receive more information on the role and making your application.
register your interest

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/news/national-recognition-for-student-s-drug-use-research:
Thursday 01 02 2024
A PhD student from University of the West of Scotland (UWS) has won a prestigious national award for her research into drug use in Scotland.
Beata Ciesluk is the first UWS recipient of the Robertson Medal, presented annually by the Carnegie Trust to the most outstanding student on its PhD scholarship programme.
Beata said: “It’s fantastic to receive this recognition: winning this medal means a lot to me.”
Beata was chosen from 11 students awarded scholarships in this year’s cohort.
Her research focuses on the increasing rates of drug use in “hidden” parts of the population not traditionally associated with drug use, such as women and older individuals.
Beata, who is originally from Poland, moved to Lerwick with her family when she was 14.
Having studied Psychology at the University of the Highlands and Islands (UHI) Shetland, Beata articulated to UWS in Paisley, where she gained a first-class Psychology degree in 2020 before going on to gain a Masters with Distinction in Addiction Psychology in 2022, also from UWS.
Beata added: “My research focuses on addiction; specifically, drug use in Scotland.
Due to the high numbers of drug related deaths, there's a need to study this population and to understand why people are dying.
“Through my research, I realised there's a minority population made up of women and older individuals who are not coming into the system.
Beata Ciesluk, PhD student, UWS
Beata’s focus on these issues has led her to work in addiction services; work she continues to this day, in her role as a Community Link Worker with We Are with You, based in Paisley.
Presenting Beata with the coveted silver medal, Ronnie Bowie, Chair of the Carnegie Trust for the Universities of Scotland said: “Beata is a poster child for everything that Andrew Carnegie wanted to achieve by setting up this endowment.
“In particular, we were very impressed by the way her research is embedded in her understanding of the lived experience of the people in this community, something she's done all the way through and continues to do today.”
The award was presented in a ceremony at UWS’s Paisley campus on Wednesday 24 January, led by the University’s Principal and Vice-Chancellor, Professor James Miller; also a Trustee of the Carnegie Trust.
“Our research is directed towards creating real and impactful benefit to our communities and the wider challenges set by the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals – Beata’s research clearly speaks to these values.”
Two silver medals are awarded each year to Scholarship candidates judged to be the most outstanding in the fields of Science and Engineering and Arts and humanities.
The medal was introduced in 2003 to mark the contribution of the retiring Chairman of the Trust, Sir Lewis Robertson, who served the Trust for more than 40 years.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/research/impacts:
An ultralight wheelchair developed in partnership with University of the West of Scotland (UWS) academics has helped Phoenix Instinct land a $1 million global competition prize.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/news/uws-professor-elected-to-prestigious-role-with-european-roma-institute-for-arts-and-culture:
Tuesday 12 11 2024
Professor Colin Clark was nominated and elected by peers for the three-year term of office, which began on 1 November 2024.
Based in Berlin, the Barvalipe Academy is the agenda-setting and strategic body of the European Roma Institute for Arts and Culture (ERIAC).
Professor Clark, who teaches Sociology and Social Policy at UWS was nominated in recognition of his research and contributions to the discipline of Romani Studies.
His research is mainly located within the connected fields of Romani Studies and Ethnic and Racial Studies, with a special interest in issues of migration, identity and citizenship.
He said, “I am honoured and humbled to have been nominated and elected by my peers to join the prestigious Barvalipe Academy of the European Roma Institute for Arts and Culture.
“There is still a lot of work to be done to combat anti-Roma racism and discrimination across Europe.
To achieve equality and integration for our connected communities, the Academy can play a leading role in shifting the political landscape." In addition to his work at UWS, Professor Clark sits on the Board of Directors of the Glasgow-based anti-racist organisation, the Coalition for Racial Equality and Rights, and he is also a Trustee of the Roma Rights group Romano Lav (Roma Voice).
He is also a member of the Research Advisory Group of the Scottish Human Rights Commission and sits on a Steering Group that advises the Scottish Government on matters relating to Gypsy/Traveller accommodation.
On 29 August 2024 he received a research award from the Scottish Association of Minority Ethnic Educators (SAMEE) for his work with Gypsy, Roma, and Traveller communities in the UK and Europe.
The ERIAC is a joint initiative of the Council of Europe, the Open Society Foundation, and the Roma Leaders’ initiative, which acts as an international creative hub to support the exchange of creative ideas across borders, cultural domains and Romani identities.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/i-found-my-place/charlie-adult-nursing-student:
Before joining UWS, Charlie was working in a care role with adults with profound and multiple learning disabilities.
He then got a job with the NHS as a vaccinator, giving ‘flu and COVID vaccinations.
It was at this time that Charlie decided he wanted to progress further and go and study nursing at UWS.
Charlie found his place at UWS - find yours!

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/i-found-my-place/karen-criminal-justice-forensic-science-student:
Mum of two, Karen, wanted to prove that she could achieve more and be a role model for her kids.
She completed a SWAP course, then an HND at college as her route into the UWS criminal justice and forensic science degree.
Karen wants to work in an investigative role in policing when she graduates.
Karen found her place at UWS - find yours!

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/i-found-my-place/cal-social-sciences-student:
Cal joined UWS through Clearing.
He’d looked at a lot of universities for courses like psychology, teaching, economics and finance, as he was unsure about what he wanted to focus on.
The UWS social sciences degree met all his subject interests and allowed him to gain a broad perspective before specialising.
Cal has cerebral palsy and is appreciative of the strong support network offered by the University to help him meet his learning needs.
Cal found his place at UWS – find yours!

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/i-found-my-place/adam-commercial-music-student:
Adam, who recently graduated in Commercial Music from UWS, enjoyed the facilities on campus, and input from industry professionals who teach on the course, to help him enhance his skills for the music industry.
Adam found his place at UWS – find yours!

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/i-found-my-place/brian-business-marketing-student:
Brian’s experience of UWS and the support he received from the University teams, has built his confidence and enabled him to chase his dreams of excelling in academia.
Brian found his place at UWS – find yours!

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/i-found-my-place/christie-commercial-music-student:
UWS Commercial Music graduate Christie chose the course as it offered the mix of subjects and skills to meet her passions in music.
Christie found her place at UWS – find yours!

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/i-found-my-place/sana-digital-marketing-student:
Sana is a postgraduate student on our MSc Digital Marketing programme at Paisley campus.
Sana found her place at UWS – find yours!

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/i-found-my-place/alesha-sport-exercise-student:
Alesha is a first year student on our BSc (Hons) Sport & Exercise programme at our Lanarkshire campus.
Alesha found her place at UWS – find yours!

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/i-found-my-place/rafail-engineering-student:
Rafail is a student on our BEng (Hons) Aircraft Engineering programme at Paisley campus, and part of the Scotland archery team.
Rafail found his place at UWS – find yours!

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/i-found-my-place/chigo-project-management-student:
Chigo is a postgraduate student on our MSc Project Management programme at Paisley campus.
Chigo found his place at UWS – find yours!

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/i-found-my-place/nicole-chemistry-student:
Nicole is a graduate of our BSc (Hons) Chemistry programme and is currently Team UWS Sports President.
Nicole found her place at UWS – find yours!

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/i-found-my-place/blair-journalism-student:
Blair is a student on our BA (Hons) Journalism / Journalism (Sport) programme and is a prominent YouTube vlogger.
Blair found his place at UWS – find yours!

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/i-found-my-place/iain-events-management-student:
Iain is a mature student setting out on a new career path with our BA (Hons) Events Management at Paisley campus.
Iain found his place at UWS – find yours!

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/i-found-my-place/lisa-education-student:
Lisa studies on our BA (Education) programme at Ayr campus.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/business/knowledge-expertise:
Find all the knowledge, expertise, resources, venues and support you need for your organisation to flourish at UWS.
We can help with grant applications for innovation projects, hosting your events, and you can have access to UWS graduates and students to help with job, internships and placement opportunities that you are planning.
Recruit UWS graduates for your vacancies, offer internships to UWS graduates or placement opportunities for UWS students.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/business/knowledge-expertise/innovation-funding-for-businesses:
Secure innovation funds
UWS can help you source and secure funds to support your research ideas in partnership.
There are several sources of funding support industry collaborations with University researchers.
We can help you source and apply for the most appropriate one to suit your business and project ideas.
To discuss your project, contact one of our UWS business development managers.
If you are looking for collaboration and advice for funding options relating to
then contact: business@uws.ac.uk
Below, we provide overview and links to more detailed information about:
The Scottish Funding Council offer s funding programmes to offset the cost for SMEs of collaborating with Scotland's universiti es to develop new products, services and process es .
UWS works in partnership with the Innovation Centres .
These represent Scottish Funding Council's (SFC) commitment to connect Scotland's academic expertise with industry, public and third sectors to create economic and societal benefits.
Innovation Centres provide funds for joint projects between businesses and universities.
So, if you are interested in:
Contact business@uws.ac.uk to see how we can help you.
Innovate UK provides funding for companies and partner organisations, including universities, to discover and develop the science and technology innovations that will grow the UK economy.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/business/knowledge-expertise/commercialisation:
Support for entrepreneurs
Turn our intellectual property to your advantage / profitable use.
Or get the lift you need as an entrepreneur to turn your bright idea into a successful company.
We foster a culture of entrepreneurship among our students, staff and researchers and actively encourage them to pursue ideas and set up their own business.
We also work with a range of businesses – from start-ups to multi-nationals – to support the commercialisation of academic research.
We also provide funding and support on business planning, starting a business, marketing and finance, working with organisations including Scottish Edge, Scottish Institute for enterprise, Business Gateway and Enterprise Campus.
UWS promotes technology transfer by licensing our expertise and patents to businesses in a wide range of industries and sectors.
We have extensive, industry-leading research and expertise that is readily-available for companies to license.
To discuss a licensing opportunity, or to find out more about the opportunities available, please contact us .
We champion entrepreneurship and have supported countless academics, students and graduates to take the first steps into establishing their own business.
We're also happy to work with entrepreneurs with no current association with UWS to fulfil their business ambitions.
We help businesses to succeed by:
If you're a current student and think we can help, or if you are a member of staff, or run your own business, talk to us if you think we can help you to develop your IP or business idea.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/business/knowledge-expertise/consultancy-services:
UWS can help you reach your business goals.
Harness UWS's expertise for practical ends.
From problem solving and technical analysis to commercialisation of intellectual property, we can help you to reach your business goals.
Contact us to discuss you consultancy needs
Enterprise Services
Below you will see a small set of examples of our consultancy partnerships for Public, Priviate and Third Sectors.
Edinburgh-based SNAP40 designs wearable medical devices.
UWS helped the firm develop a device to monitor respiratory rate, blood pressure, heart rate and skin temperature.
The data is transmitted wirelessly to a software platform w hich detects patterns , automatically notifying healthcare staff of any issue .
Christopher McCann, CEO, SNAP40
Around 1.2m flights per year depend on National Air Traffic Services’ Prestwick Control Centre for safe and efficient passage.
NATS has formed a partnership with UWS to work on a range of projects covering joint research and knowledge transfer, collaborative education and training programmes.
Alastair Muir, Director for Prestwick, NATS
Since 2019, a team at UWS has worked closely with British Council Sri Lanka, the Quality Assurance Council and University Grants Commission (UGC), on a project across all 15 State universities in Sri Lanka.
We provide training and consultancy on developing a Student Voice within the Quality Assurance process across institutions.
A partnership between UWS and Loretto Care, an organisation which provides support to people in need across the west of Scotland, has helped build and sustain a world-class facility for people with alcohol-related brain damage .
Loretto has been able to transfer much of UWS’s world-class academic research and knowledge to its own staff.
Cathy Fallon, Director of Housing and Care, Loretto Care

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/business/staff-and-student-innovation:
The driver behind this work is both research impact (spin outs) and regional economic development.
Spin Out development has a high profile both at UWS and in the Scottish Government with the publication of its Entrepreneurial Campus Blueprint to:
UWS has a significant impact on the places where we are located, creating companies, jobs, and tax revenues.
By retaining expertise in our areas, we're able to inspire and educate future generations of entrepreneurs.
We have a significant emphasis on embedding entrepreneurship into the curriculum (under and past graduate).
UWS have innovative programmes to achieve this as widely as possible as part of our investment in greater staff and student success.
UWS’ approach to spin out development has been widely recognised as best in class by investors, founders and the business community.
Our approach aligns with all ten recommendations in the Entrepreneurial Campus Blueprint.
To find out how you can be involved in high-value spin out development, please get in touch.
Find out more about Innovation funding for businesses at UWS.
Student innovation refers to the process by which students engage in activities and programmes involving creative thinking, problem-solving, and the development of ideas, products, services, or solutions.
It involves applying creative and inventive approaches to address challenges or to create something new.
Student innovation is not limited to a specific field or discipline and can span a wide range of areas, including technology, business, social impact, arts, and sciences.
'To ignite, elevate and engage the next wave of leaders for the future, through skills development, innovation and entrepreneurship’.
To achieve this, our team provides support and valuable resources for individuals interested in starting up their own ventures, developing their ideas and skillsets.
This includes our workshops, programmes, business support, incubation spaces, online tools, funding opportunities and access to entrepreneurial networks.
Find out more about our upcoming programmes and activities by visiting our main i3 Student Innovation Hub website
If you have any questions, get in touch with our team at studentinnovation@uws.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/business/carbon-champions-project:
In 2022, University of the West of Scotland led a pioneering project to deliver support and training to enable organisations across South Ayrshire to meet the national Net Zero goals, and position South Ayrshire as a national leader in green working practices.
Thirty participating organisations accessed fully funded consultancy and training to support plans for decarbonisation and improved sustainability.
These individuals became ‘Carbon Champions’ - skilled auditors, able to recognise challenges and opportunities for improvement in their own organisations.
The Carbon Champions project was funded by the National Community Renewal Fund.
It was delivered by University of the West of Scotland, in partnership with South Ayrshire Council with the support of Ayrshire Chamber of Commerce, Ayrshire College, and Entrepreneurial Scotland.
The UK Community Renewal Fund was a UK Government programme for 2021/22.
It aimed to support people and communities most in need across the UK to pilot programmes and new approaches to prepare for the UK Shared Prosperity Fund.
The participating businesses received a support package with a minimum value worth £15,000 including:
To find out more about the Carbon Champions Programme, or to discuss delivery of Carbon Reduction training within your organisation, contact our dedicated CPD team at: cpd@uws.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/business/international-skills-and-innovation:
The University of the West of Scotland (UWS) is dedicated to equipping learners and professionals across the globe with the skills and knowledge needed to thrive in an ever-changing world.
Our International Skills and Innovation programmes are designed to foster cross-cultural collaboration, support lifelong learning, and drive economic growth in diverse international contexts.
We aim to deliver impactful training and innovative solutions to meet the needs of individuals, industries, and communities worldwide.
By combining our academic excellence with practical experience, we enable participants to address local and global challenges effectively and sustainably.
Our international activities are firmly aligned with the UWS Strategy 2025.
Our international work, including skills development, knowledge exchange, and partnerships, contributes directly to our strategic goals by expanding our reach beyond Scotland to have a global impact.
We work closely with partners across the globe, including government agencies, educational institutions, and businesses, to ensure our training programmes are tailored to the specific needs of each region.
UWS became the first organisation in Scotland to be accredited by China’s State Administration for Foreign Expert Affairs (SAFEA).
This accreditation enabled UWS to deliver high-quality training to Chinese professionals, providing expertise in various sectors such as urban planning, construction, public administration, finance, human resources, artificial intelligence, and digital engineering.
The partnership began with a pilot course for Hainan University in 2016.
It expanded rapidly in 2019, resulting in over 23 courses being delivered to nearly 500 delegates, including representatives from the Ministry of Development, the World Bank in China, and several provincial authorities.
This collaboration was recognised for its quality and impact, with a satisfaction score of 100% for the first training session and an average evaluation score of 96% across all courses.
It also brought 1.2 million GBP to the economy.
Check out this newspaper article for more information on our SAFEA partnership achievement.
We also engage in numerous international innovation initiatives that drive collaborative research, knowledge exchange, and development.
Our recent innovation-focused collaborations have included:
The Zhejiang Innovation Base (ZIB) is a key part of UWS's ongoing collaboration with China, focusing on driving Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (SME) innovation and fostering international partnerships.
Established in partnership with the Zhejiang Provincial Science and Technology Cooperation Centre, ZIB serves as a hub for supporting Scottish and Chinese SMEs through joint innovation initiatives and knowledge exchange.
One of the primary goals of ZIB is to create opportunities for business matchmaking and support international business development through UWS's Innovation Creation Approach.
The focus on SME growth mirrors Scotland's economic development priorities and helps build a bridge between the two regions, ensuring mutual growth and benefit.
ZIB also emphasises the importance of research collaboration, connecting Scottish companies with local Chinese partners to foster innovation and knowledge sharing.
The base not only supports economic development but also enhances cultural understanding and cooperation, further positioning UWS as a pioneer in international business and educational partnerships.
Whether you are an individual looking to advance your skills, an organisation seeking customised training, or a partner interested in collaboration, UWS is ready to support your journey.
Together, we can build a future that is innovative, inclusive, and globally connected.
For more information, please get in touch with our International Skills and Innovation team:

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/business/ayrshire-digital-economy-ecosystem-adee:
Digital efforts across Ayrshire were previously fragmented, with councils, businesses, and academic institutions working in isolation, leading to duplicated efforts, missed opportunities, and gaps in infrastructure and digital skills.
Limited collaboration between stakeholders further hindered progress.
The Ayrshire Digital Economy Ecosystem (ADEE) was established to address these challenges by creating a co-ordinated, collaborative framework that aligns regional digital initiatives, supports skills development, and accelerates innovation.
ADEE underpins the Ayrshire Growth Deal , aiming to position Ayrshire as a leading regional digital economy.
In 2024, UWS began development of the ADEE framework in collaboration with North Ayrshire Council and other 5GIR partners.
It was established alongside the Digital Connectivity & Innovation Centre as part of £1 million in funding from the Ayrshire 5G Innovation Region (A5GIR) project, which is part of the £38 million Innovation Regions programme funded by the UK Department for Science, Innovation and Technology (DSIT).
The vision of the ADEE framework is to create a thriving, inclusive, and sustainable digital economy in Ayrshire by advancing digital infrastructure, fostering innovation, enhancing digital skills, ensuring seamless connectivity, and promoting digital inclusion.
Through strategic collaboration and investment, it aims to position Ayrshire as a leading digital hub that drives economic growth and benefits businesses, communities, and future generations.
Stakeholder Engagement
Engagement of regional stakeholders is a key component to the development of the ecosystem.
To enable co-creation of framework elements, and alignment of ecosystem activities, this engagement is conducted through several methods:
To gauge existing factors surrounding private and public sector 5G adoption, a surveys of Ayrshire organisations were conducted.
- The DAP Pilot : The Digital Ambassador Programme was pilot of a series of three workshops which included presentations from partners, networking opportunities and breakout sessions for discussion surrounding regional 5G adoption.
Attendees consisted of members from public and private sector organisations in the Ayrshire region.
- The DIA Pilot : The Digital Innovation Accelerator is a pilot programme to support businesses with digital transformation, including a series of regional engagement workshops and tailored industry support.
To facilitate alignment among ecosystem projects, a delivery group of leading partners gathers regularly to present and discuss developments of the ADEE.
The key themes of the ADEE framework are Innovation, Collaboration and Education.
It is through these that the ecosystem supports projects in impacting the Ayrshire Digital Economy.
The delivery programmes for each of these themes are supported by Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) to measure impact over time of project use cases and provide valuable data to support further business cases.
The Ayrshire Digital Economy Framework (ADEF) supports the Ayrshire Regional Economic Strategy (RES) and its regional priorities.
Its five key pillars include:
These pillars represent the foundation of the digital master plan, driving regional economic growth, improving public service delivery, and ensuring that digital transformation benefits all citizens across Ayrshire.
The ADEE framework has been produced into a comprehensive document, which outlines the strategy and structure of the framework, and its application to the Ayrshire 5GIR projects.
This covers:
Framework master document
The ADEE maintains an online presence for the benefit of engagement, networking and marketing, through which events and news in the ecosystem are shared: https://www.linkedin.com/company/ayrshire-digital-economy-ecosystem The Ayrshire digital economy ecosystem is further described in this video: 5GIR 2 - Ayrshire's Digital Economy Explainer
Professor Muhammad Zeeshan Shakir, Professor of Wireless Communications and Director, DCIC, muhammad.Shakir@uws.ac.uk Leon Irving, 5G Ecosystem Manager, leon.Irving@uws.ac.uk Chao Guo, Digital Ambassador Program Coordinator, chao.guo@uws.ac.uk The ADEE team can be contacted at adee@uws.ac.uk
North Ayrshire Council South Ayrshire Council National Manufacturing Institute Scotland (NMIS) Ayrshire College Scotland 5G Centre Farrpoint

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/business/knowledge-expertise/case-studies:
Gas Sensing Solutions Ltd in Cumbernauld make carbon di oxide sensors.
Our world-leading Institute of Thin Films, Sensors & Imaging helped them to create a portab le fast-response sensor for use in exercise science and sports.
I t helps to determine the correct intensity of exercise for individual athletes.
Other UWS scientific breakthroughs include:
Ask us about your scientific requirements business@uws.ac.uk
Alan Henderson, MD, Gas Sensing Solutions
UWS leads a €6.8m project team spearheading the roll-out of Europe’s 5G mobile network.
Around 1000 times faster than 4G, th e new technology has big implications for future applications, from remote surgery to self-driving cars .
Early benefits will come to remote areas , where fixed network s are prohibitively expensive.
Our vast technological expertise includes:
Ask us about your technology requirements business@uws.ac.uk
The Scottish Centre for Enabling Technologies at UWS has worked with NHS Scotland to develop apps and tools that support palliative care, diabetes monitoring, cancer care and ophthalmology.
They’ re among games, apps, animation and database management systems that SCET has created for more than 250 companies.
Our other healthcare work includes:
Discuss your healthcare requirements with us business@uws.ac.uk
UWS’s long-term partnership with Oxfam involves local groups from communities throughout the west of Scotland.
It has produced research on the integration of refugees, the economic contribution of co-operatives, the work of community organisations and the impact of austerity on health.
Our wide-ranging work with social policy implications includes:
Find out more about our social policy expertise business@uws.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/about-uws/academic-schools/school-of-business-creative-industries:
New thinking for a changing world
The School of Business & Creative Industries at UWS offers professionally focused business and creative courses designed to equip you for career success and prepare you to make an immediate impact on your sector of choice, post-graduation.
Our Business & Creative Industries courses are tailored to suit the needs of modern-day businesses, professionals, and practitioners, meaning that studying with UWS will give you a sought-after skillset that will:
Our courses are recognised for quality and flexibility, attracting both home and international students.
Our strong links with industry and world-class research underpin our courses, which are delivered on each of our campuses and through many partners across the globe.
Our courses are:
Many of our courses are professionally accredited or working towards accreditation.
Professional accreditation through institutions can include:
Additionally, accreditation from our creative programmes may include:
WATCH UWS ALUMNI SERIES WITH PATRICK DOYLE HERE!
The Small Business Charter (SBC) accreditation, awarded by the Chartered Association of Business Schools, recognises business schools in the UK that demonstrate excellence in supporting small businesses, student entrepreneurship, and local economic growth.
It signifies a school's strong commitment to working with small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) through high-quality business support, impactful engagement, and relevant academic programmes.
Accredited schools play a key role in fostering innovation and enterprise by delivering practical assistance, developing entrepreneurial talent, and contributing to regional development initiatives.
Gain the right skills and confidence to make an impact in business.
We work with employers to create programmes that meet the demands of commerce and industry.
At UWS, we offer a wide range of business-related degree courses:
Our graduates have gone on to secure employment with organisations such as Shell, Ford, Motorola and Citibank, as well as national charities and education providers.
UWS is one of only three Skillset Academies in Scotland - an industry-accredited network of excellence.
We offer a wide range of creative-related degree courses, including:
Build on your existing qualifications with a postgraduate business degree that will enhance your career prospects as well as your academic knowledge.
Our postgraduate courses offer distinctive and flexible routes to meet the demands of business and creative industries.
We offer a wide range of postgraduate courses in business, including:
Additionally, we offer a wide range of postgraduate courses in creative industries:
Fatima Jamshed, BAcc (Hons) Accounting graduate, Fund Accountant at BNP Paribas
The School is respected at home and abroad for its research and consultancy.
It focuses on the economic development of communities, enterprise and innovation, and leadership and organisational performance.
Research centres:
Our Creative Media Academy (CMA) is one of only three such academies in Scotland to be endorsed by Creative Skillet.
Directed by award-winning Professor Nick Higgins and Paul Tucker, the CMA has strong links with industry and the public sector.
It has established a Glasgow Creative Enterprise Cluster, a driving-force for industry facing, multidisciplinary projects and public events at the Centre for Contemporary Arts and projects at Film City Glasgow.
Our global outlook generates opportunities for study or work experience abroad.
Many School staff work as consultants on international projects.
We draw participants from across the world to conferences, workshops and seminars.
As a student, you can gain from our links with partners in China, India, Europe and beyond.
If you have any enquiries relating to our School, please contact us: bci@uws.ac.uk
Staff from the School work with leading organisations for research and consultancy projects and our students gain practical work experience and guest lectures from leading multinational organisations
Abbott UK
Astra Zeneca
Doosan Babcock
Honeywell
Rolls Royce
Vascutek
Creative Skillset
British Broadcasting Corporation
Scottish Television
Pinewood Studios
Trinity Mirror PLC

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/campuses/ayr-campus/travelling-to-ayr-campus:
The University of the West of Scotland's Ayr Campus is located just a 10-minute walk from Ayr town centre.
It is well served by public transport links, cycle paths and walking routes.
U WS supports and encourages students to make sustainable travel choices for their journey to Ayr Campus wherever possible.
If you live within 2 miles of Ayr Campus, why not save money and get fit by walking?
If you live a bit further away, you could try cycling to campus.
Sustrans are an organisation that maintain national cycle routes in the UK.
Enter the Ayr Campus postcode (KA8 OSX) into the Sustrans map to see routes that take you close to the campus.
Cycle parking, shower facilities and lockers are available throughout the campus.
The UWS Ayr Campus is well served by public transport links.
Ayr train station is under 10 minutes’ walk from the campus.
There is a half hourly train service between Ayr and Glasgow Central with a journey time of just over 40 minutes.
Stagecoach is the local bus operator and runs bus services into Ayr and the town centre from surrounding areas and further afield - timetables can be found on the Stagecoach website .
Alternatively, you can plan your walking, cycling or public transport route with Google Maps or Traveline Scotland .
Parking at Ayr Campus is limited for students during the day and, as there is little capacity for on-street parking in the area, you are advised to make use of public transport to the campus or to car-share as much as possible.
The UWS journey share scheme can help you find someone to car share with.
Blue badge holders and car sharers are able to access dedicated spaces in car parks 1 and 2.
The University and SRUC enjoy a close relationship with the local community and we ask students not to park on the Craigie Estate or Holmston Road due to the disruption this can cause to local residents.
South Ayrshire Council monitor parking on the streets around the Campus and are likely to apply penalties to those parking illegally.
If you are unable to park on the Campus you can access parking in Ayr town centre.
There are two international airports close to our Scottish campuses: Glasgow International Airport (GLA) and Glasgow Prestwick Airport (PIK).
If you arrive into London by air you can take a direct flight to Glasgow International Airport or Glasgow Prestwick Airpor t.
There are frequent services from London to these airports and the flight only takes one hour.
Alternatively, there are train services operating from central London from where you can access connecting bus, rail and road networks to our Scottish campuses.
From Glasgow International Airport , the easiest way to travel to Ayr Campus is to take a taxi or bus to Paisley Gilmour Street train station and then a train to Ayr.
Taxis are readily available at the airport and the cost from the airport to Paisley Gilmour Street train station is approximately £8 to £10.
Alternatively, you can take the number 60 bus service to Paisley Gilmour Street train station.
Once you have arrived at Paisley Gilmour Street train station you can take a train directly to Ayr station.
Trains to Ayr operate every 30 minutes (less frequently on a Sunday).
The journey will take about 45 minutes and Ayr is the last stop on the route.
The Trainline website provides information about train times and fares.
Ayr Campus accommodation is a 5 minute taxi journey from Ayr train station.
Taxis are available outside the train station and will cost approximately £5.
If your plane arrives into Glasgow International Airport after the last train to Ayr has left, you will need to take a taxi directly to Ayr, costing approximately £70.
Glasgow Prestwick Airport is very close to our Ayr accommodation.
A taxi directly from the airport will cost approximately £8 to £12.
Taxis are available from the front of the airport and can also be called from the airport - a irport staff can assist you if required.
Stena Line run a ferry service between Belfast and Cairnryan ferry port , the crossing takes approximately 2 hours 15 minutes and there are up to 6 crossings daily .
A regular bus service runs between the Cairnryan ferry port and Ayr town centre - T raveline provides information about times and fares.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/campuses/dumfries-campus/travelling-to-dumfries-campus:
The University of the West of Scotland's Dumfries Campus is located within the Crichton estate, two miles from Dumfries town centre.
UWS supports and encourages students to make sustainable travel choices for their journey to Dumfries Campus wherever possible.
If you live within 2 miles of Dumfries Campus, why not save money and get fit by walking?
Enter the Dumfries Campus postcode (DG1 4FD) into the Sustrans map to see routes that take you close to the campus.
The UWS Dumfries Campus is well served by public transport links.
A regular bus service operates between campus and the centre of Dumfries, with a 15 minute journey time.
Dumfries train station is located in Dumfries town centre with a regular service to Glasgow Central.
Parking at UWS Dumfries Campus is limited and students are advised to make use of public transport to the campus or to car-share as much as possible.
As well as decreasing carbon emissions, car-sharing significantly reduces fuel costs.
F rom G lasgow International Airport , the easiest way to travel to Dum fries Campus is to take a bus to Glasgow Central train station and then a train to Dumfries train station.
Once you have arrived at Dumfries you can take a taxi directly to your accommodation.
Taxis are available from the front of the station and can also be called from the station.
If your plane arrives into Glasgow International Airport after the last bus to Glasgow Central train station and onwards to Dumfries, you will need to take a taxi to Dumfries.
Taxis are readily available at the airport.
Airport staff can assist you if required.
From Glasgow Prestwick Airport , take a train to Glasgow Central train station.
All passengers receive discounted rail tickets on proof of air travel (e.g.
flight itinerary or boarding pass).
The train journey takes around 50 minutes.
Trains operate approximately every 30 minutes, for most of the day, and every hour on a Sunday.
When you arrive at Glasgow Central Station you can take a train to Dumfries train station.
If your plane arrives into Glasgow Prestwick Airport after the last train to Glasgow Central train station and onwards to Dumfries, you will need to take a taxi to Dumfries.
Taxis are available from the front of the airport and can also be called from the airport.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/campuses/lanarkshire-campus/travelling-to-lanarkshire-campus:
The University of the West of Scotland's Lanarkshire Campus is located at Hamilton International Technology Park, with more than 80 local businesses.
It is well served by public transport links.
UWS supports and encourages students to make sustainable travel choices for their journey to Lanarkshire Campus wherever possible.
If you live within 2 miles of Lanarkshire Campus, or are alighting the train at Blantyre, we would encourage staff and students to get fit by walking.
If you live a bit further away, you could cycle to campus.
Active commuters will be supported with 100 cycle parking spaces, with enhanced cycle provision and repair kits and tools in a secure compound.
Shower facilities on every floor of each building will allow all active commuters to freshen up before their day begins.
We are also working with South Lanarkshire Council to improve walking & cycling routes and are investigating a bike hire scheme to facilitate more cycling to and from Campus.
Enter the Lanarkshire Campus postcode (G72 0LH) into the Sustrans map to see routes that take you close to the campus.
The UWS Lanarkshire Campus is well served by public transport links.
There are bus stops within close proximity to the campus serviced by a number of buses (201, 205, 226, 250 and 263).
There is currently one bus link utilising the campus bus stop - the First Bus U1 (Hamilton to campus) makes a stop at the UWS Lanarkshire bus station on Technology Avenue during term times.
Timetables for local bus and rail services will be available at the campus welcome desk and are available online.
Alternatively, you can plan your walking, cycling or public transport route with Google Maps or Traveline Scotland.
The Lanarkshire campus has ample car parking – shared between staff and students.
If you intend to drive, please consider car sharing.
As well as saving carbon it will reduce your fuel costs.
If you arrive into London by air you can take a direct flight to Glasgow International Airport or Glasgow Prestwick Airport.
T he best way to travel from G lasgow International Airport to Lanarkshire Campus is to t ak e a bus to Glasgow Central train station and then a train to Blantyre station.
Trains to Blantyre leave from the lower level platforms in Glasgow Central train station and the journey will take approximately 20 minutes.
The campus address is Technology Avenue, Blantyre, Glasgow, G72 0LH.
If you would prefer to take a taxi from Blantyre train station, contact the Accommodation Office in advance of your journey for advice:
If you r plane arrive s into Glasgow International Airport after the last train has left, you will need to take a taxi to the campus, costing approximately £45.
From Glasgow Prestwick Airport , take the train to Glasgow Central train station .
The journey takes around 50 minutes.
When you arrive at Glasgow Central s tation you can take a train to Blantyre.
Trains leave from the lower level platforms in Glasgow Central train station and the journey will take approximately 20 minutes.
If you r plane arrive s into Glasgow Prestwick Airport after the last train to Glasgow Central train station and onwards to Blantyre, you will need to take a taxi to the campus, costing approximately £55 to £70.
Stephenson Place Hamilton International Technology Park Technology Avenue South Lanarkshire G72 0LH Scotland, UK

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/campuses/london-campus/travelling-to-london-campus:
Located in the historic London Docklands, the UWS London Campus is just a 1-minute walk from East India DLR station, just 20 minutes from Shoreditch and Bank and 10 mins from London City Airport.
UWS London Campus is perfectly situated for access to East London’s rich and diverse amenity offering – which can all be easily reached by foot, bike or public transport.
UWS supports and encourages students to make sustainable travel choices for their journey to London Campus wherever possible.
If you live within 2 miles of London Campus, why not save money and get fit by walking?
Enter the London Campus postcode (E14 2BE) into the Sustrans map to see routes that take you close to the campus.
Transport for London have also produced a guide to cycling in London.
The city of London has some of the most integrated public transport networks in the world.
The UWS London Campus is well served by public transport links with nearby bus stops, underground (Tube) connections and overground train stations.
You can plan your walking, cycling or public transport route with Google Maps.
The best way to get around London is by using a Student Oyster Card which will give you discounts on travel across London, with 30% off the price of adult-rate tickets.
You can obtain an 18+ Student Oyster photo card from the Transport for London website .
The closest train station to UWS London Campus is the East India DLR.
The closest alternative station is Blackwall DLR.
The Canary Wharf, Canning Town and West Ham are alternatives to the DLR station of East India and all are close to the UWS London Campus.
The UWS London Campus is close to a number of bus stops with services running to all areas of the city.
The following list of bus stops are those closest to the London campus: Aberfeldy Street; Blackwall Tunnel; Leamouth Road; Blackwall Station; Cotton Street; Blackwall Tunnel East India Dock Rd; All Saints.
Further information on bus routes and timetables can be found on the Transport for London website .
TfL Buses to/from London Docklands (pdf)
You can plan your walking, cycling or public transport route with Google Maps .
London is an extremely congested city with very limited free parking.
Drivers in the city centre also have to pay a congestion charge for driving within the charging zone.
It is more cost-effective for students to travel by public transport.
London is well connected to the rest of the world with the high speed Eurostar rail link , the nearby Port of Dover and five international airports:
The se all offer easy access to the city centre with regular train and bus services.
Visit London provides information on airport transfers into the city .

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/campuses/paisley-campus/travelling-to-paisley-campus:
The University of the West of Scotland's Paisley Campus is located in the centre of Paisley town, and just a 10 minute train journey from Glasgow city centre.
It is well served by public transport links and cycle paths.
UWS supports and encourages students to make sustainable travel choices for their journey to Paisley Campus wherever possible.
If you live within 2 miles of Paisley Campus, why not save money and get fit by walking?
Enter the Paisley Campus postcode (PA1 2BE) into the Sustrans map to see routes that take you close to the campus.
The UWS Paisley Campus is well served by public transport links.
Paisley Gilmour Street and Canal Street train stations are both within a 10 minute walk of campus.
There are bus stops within close proximity to the main High Street entrance of campus.
Timetables for local bus and rail services are available at the campus reception.
Please note that there is no student parking provided at Paisley Campus, except for blue badge holders.
If you intend to drive and park near the campus, please consider car sharing.
As well as saving carbon it will reduce your fuel costs - typical savings are around £685 a year from East Kilbride and nearly £1300 from Cumbernauld.
If you have an electric vehicle there is a charging point on campus which is currently free of charge.
Glasgow International Airport is situated in Paisley, 10 to 15 minutes by taxi to the University accommodation.
From Glasgow Prestwick Airport y ou can get a train direct to Paisley Gilmour Street train station, taking 40 minutes.
You should take the Glasgow bound train which operates approximately every 30 minutes, for most of the day, and every hour on a Sunday.
Once you have arrived at Paisley Gilmour Street train station, you can take a taxi from Country Square ( outside the station) directly to your accommodation.
If your planes arrives into Glasgow Prestwick Airport after the last train to Paisley has left, you will need to take a taxi to Paisley, costing approximately £55 to £70.
High St
PA1 2BE

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/uws-sport/gym-facilities-at-uws/paisley-campus-gym:
Located on the 3rd floor of the Students’ Union building on Storie Street, Paisley Campus Gym has an exciting fitness suite and group fitness area.
The gym and exercise classes are open to everyone - you don't need to be a UWS student or staff member to join.
Register for a membership
The gym offers a wide range of equipment and caters for all fitness interests and abilities.
Our staff are on hand to help motivate and inspire you to reach your fitness goals.
The facility contains a wide range of equipment, including:
Paisley also benefits from a fantastic outdoor gym .
The site now boasts a full resistance cardio suite where you can select your desired level of intensity through our digital screens.
View our weekly instructor-led fitness class timetable below.
Our classes cater for all fitness interests and abilities.
Classes can be accessed as part of your membership, or on a pay as you go basis.
For any further information, or to book a class, please get in touch with our gym team.
Indoor Cycling - 12.30pm to 1.00pm
Get Started - 1.20pm to 1.50pm
Body Blast - 5.00pm to 5.30pm
Abs Blast - 5.30pm to 5.45pm
Induction - 7.00pm to 8.00pm
Body Blast - 12.30pm to 1.00pm
Abs Blast - 1.20pm to 1.50pm
Indoor Cycling - 5.00pm to 5.30pm
Body Blast - 5.30pm to 5.45pm
Abs Blast - 7.00pm to 8.00pm
Are you interested in working with a personal trainer?
Whatever level of fitness, or availability, we have personal trainers who work with you to achieve your fitness goals.
How about becoming a Personal Trainer at UWS?
UWS Sport has an agreement in place to allow UWS approved Personal Trainers to provide support services within our UWS operated gym facilities.
For more information on personal training opportunities email uwspaisley.campusgym@uws.ac.uk
Memberships are free for Staff and Students while we also offer community memberships for locals.
Find out more on our prices below and register for a membership.
Membership for UWS Students is free as part of their study.
Students should still fill in a membership form or get in touch with the gym team.
Membership for UWS Staff is free as part of their employment.
Staff should still fill in a membership form or get in touch with the gym team.
Community memberships are priced as follows:
Concession memberships are priced as follows:
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on X

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/about-our-website/accessibility-residences-booking-platform-tcas:
University of the West of Scotland (the "University", "us", "our" or "we") is committed to making our web presence as accessible as possible and we endeavour to make our website compliant with The Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
The online platform referred to in this statement is our residences booking platform ("the platform", "our platform", "this platform", "the site").
There are three distinct but inter-related facets to this platform (an application and booking system, an administration backend system and a residents-only system).
The platform is built on the TCAS online property management solution.
We would normally aim to respond to your mail in 10 working days upon receipt.
However, due to the global pandemic and the necessary remote working procedures that are now in place within the University, we are unable to respond by mail and are working on campus in a limited capacity.
We recommend using email for contacting us for the foreseeable future.
This website is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.1 (WCAG2.1) - AA standard, due to the non-compliances listed below.
Across the platform, heading levels have been omitted and web pages are incorrectly marked up within a table.
This fails success criteria 1.3.1 (Info and Relationships), 2.4.6 (Headings and Labels).
The platform exhibits no keyboard focus indicator and, as such, there are many focus indicator and keyboard accessibility issues on this website platform.
This fails success criteria 2.1.1 (Keyboard), 2.4.7 (Focus Visible), 2.4.11 (Focus Visible (Enhanced).
No skip link is included on the platform pages.
This fails success criteria 2.4.1 (Bypass Blocks).
Across the platform, there are many forms where input fields and list boxes are not programmatically associated with their respective labels.
There are also examples where input fields are unlabelled.
These fail success criteria 1.1.1 (Non-text Content), 1.3.1 (Info and Relationships), 1.3.5 (Identify Input Purpose), 4.1.2 (Name, Role, Value).
Also, in-line error messages are not always clear in relation to what the error is and how it can be corrected.
Error messages are also not programmatically associated to their input fields.
This fails success criteria 1.3.1 (Info and Relationships), 1.3.5 (Identify Input Purpose), 3.3.1 (Error Identification), 3.3.3 (Error Suggestion).
Across the platform, many form select boxes have no descriptions and fail success criteria 1.3.1 (Info and Relationships), 3.3.2 (Labels or Instructions), 4.1.2 (Name, Role, Value).
Some forms used across the platform have no visible label indicating the purpose of the input field.
This fails success criteria 1.3.1 (Info and Relationships), 3.3.2 (Labels or Instructions).
On many pages the form input fields do not have a description that is explicitly associated with the field.
This fails success criteria 1.3.1 (Info & Relationships), 3.2.2 (Labels or Instructions) and 4.1.2 (Name, Role, Value).
The form elements on many pages of the website have a label but text has not been added to those labels (i.e.
the labels are empty).
This fails success criteria 2.4.6 (Headings and Labels).
Finally, on many forms across the platform, there are many dropdown elements where labels are not associated with the dropdown elements themselves.
This fails success criteria 1.3.1 (Info and Relationships), 3.3.2 (Labels or Instructions) and 4.1.2 (Name, Role, Value).
Logos and images across the platform do not have appropriate alternative text.
This fails success criteria 1.1.1 (Non-text Content).
The platform exhibits a range of lost functionality at 300% or 400% zoom.
Reflowing at 300% or 400% causes some dropdown items, elements and menus not to be fully visible.
This fails success criteria 1.4.10 (Reflow).
There are pages where the forms are not available at 300% and 400% zoom.
On some pages textual content and items in the header such as main logo and main menu are not available at 300%, 400% zoom.
There are a range of insufficient colour contrast ratios issues across the platform.
Colour contrast is not sufficient for some text on pages.
There are examples across the platform with a contrast ratio of 2.9:1 which is insufficient; the colour contrast ratio required is 4.5:1.
This fails success criteria 1.4.3: Contrast (Minimum).
There are instances where form control values for input fields have a contrast ratio of 3.4:1 which is insufficient; the contrast ratio required is 4.5:1.
There are also instances of insufficient contrast ratio used in relation to icons where icons have a contrast ratio of 2.6:1; the ratio required is 4.5:1.
These fail success criteria 1.4.11 (Non-text Contrast).
A custom student accommodation / residence booking solution for the University is not a viable option at this juncture and we are claiming that it would be a disproportionate burden at this time to develop one.
Although we have no control over the structure, design or style of the platform, we are in discussions with the 3rd party supplier of this platform concerning their plan to address digital accessibility compliance issues that the platform contains.
The supplier has provided a detailed development roadmap covering the accessibility of the platform which extends into 2023.
We will update this statement as the platform evolves to address the identified accessibility issues.
None.
No automated digital accessibility assessments of the website were or are conducted.
This statement was prepared on 21 October 2021.
It was last reviewed on 21 October 2021.
The website was last manually tested on 13 August 2021.
See details of assessments undertaken below:
The manual digital accessibility assessment of the website was undertaken on the 13 August 2021.
It was carried out by AbilityNet Ltd and consisted of assessing 5 webpages using 8 accessibility tests.
Pages tested:
It was last updated in April 2023.
We update this statement at least annually and will next review it in October 2024.
We are working with our platform supplier to address the digital accessibility issues that have been identified in this statement in the months and years ahead.
Our supplier has provided the following update:
We have addressed the accessibility requirements in both the Application Form and the Resident Portal.
There is a new Application Form available for V8 that came out earlier this year and our new Resident Portal will be available in 2023.
However, in updating our accessibility requirements for the Application Form and Resident Portal, we have identified the fact that the Admin Portal will require more substantial developments and therefore, time to address the accessibility issues contained therein.
The supplier has provided a development roadmap for the platform which extends into 2024.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/about-our-website/accessibility-uws-shop:
The website referred to in this statement is our UWS Shop website ("the website", "our website", "this website", "the site").
The shop is built on the WPM Education Payment Platform (“the platform”, “this platform”).
It is entirely a 3rd party platform and we have no control over the structure of the webpages therein.
However, we want as many people as possible to be able to use this website for all their university purchases.
On many webpages: heading levels have been omitted are not marked up logically; footer headings have been incorrectly classified as children of the page content and in some cases part of a list when they are not visually part of the lists.
Many web pages use tables for presentation but they haven’t been marked as presentational and table headers are not marked up as such.
Many web pages use text visually styled as headings, which are not marked up as such.
This fails success criteria 1.3.1 (Info and Relationships), 1.3.2 (Meaningful Sequence), 2.4.2 (Page Titled), 2.4.6 (Headings and Labels), and 2.4.10 (Section Headings).
There are many focus indicator issues on this website which include:
These fail success criteria 2.4.3 (Focus Order), 2.4.7 (Focus Visible), and 2.4.11 (Focus Visible (Enhanced)).
Submenus within the website cannot be accessed on a keyboard basis.
Offering a skip link to move keyboard users straight to the content would be beneficial.
Drop down menus should always have a description that is explicitly associated with the field to make sure that users of assistive technologies will also know what the field is for.
This fails success criteria 1.3.1 (Info and Relationships), 3.3.2 (Labels or Instructions) and 4.1.2 (Name, Role, Value) Select box has no description.
We have instances of broken links on every page in the website; a local link (anchor link) occurs but the destination does not exist.
This fails success criteria 1.3.1 (Info and Relationships) Local link destination does not exist.
Pages currently include hyperlinks which are identified by colour only; these can be difficult to see for people with colour vision difficulties.
This fails success criteria 1.4.1 (Use of Colour).
Whilst we’re working on with our partner to rectify issues, you might find a tool like A+ FontSize Changer Lite helpful – it can automatically underline all hyperlinks on a page.
Across many pages on the website, adjacent hyperlinks, one with a link text, the other with an iconic representation of that link, point to the same destination.
This fails success criteria 1.1.1 (Non-text Content) Adjacent links used for same destination.
Many pages of the website use the same link text for links going to different destinations.
Users might not know the difference if they are not somehow explained.
This fails success criteria 2.4.4 (Link Purpose (In Context)) Link text used for multiple different destinations.
A few pages on the website use link text that is too generic and does not identify the link purpose.
The link does not seem to have any programmatically determined link context that can aid in identifying the purpose either.
This fails success criteria 2.4.4 (Link Purpose (In Context)) Link text is too generic in its current context.
HTML has been used on all pages of the website to format presentational attributes instead of CSS.
This fails success criteria 1.3.1 (Info and Relationships) HTML is used to format content.
Some input fields across the website are not programmatically associated with their respective labels.
These fail success criteria 1.3.1 (Info and Relationships), 1.3.5 (Identify Input Purpose), 4.1.2 (Name, Role, Value).
Input fields should always have a description that is explicitly associated with the field to make sure that users of assistive technologies will understand the purpose of the field.
Forms across the website do not contain distinct or clear submit buttons.
This fails success criteria 3.2.2 (On Input) Missing button in form.
The forms used across the website have no visible label indicating the purpose of the input field.
This fails success criteria 3.3.2 (Labels or Instructions) Field label not visible.
Forms across the website have drop down boxes (select) present without a submit button.
This fails success criteria 3.2.2 (On Input) Provide a button for ‘select box’.
On many pages of the website the form input fields do not have a description that is explicitly associated with the field to make sure that users of assistive technologies will also know what the field is for.
This fails success criteria 1.3.1 (Info & Relationships), 3.2.2 (Labels or Instructions) and 4.1.2 (Name, Role, Value) Input field has no description.
The form elements on many pages of the website have a label but text has not been added to that label (i.e.
the label is empty).
On many pages on the website, the form element has a label but text has not been added (label is empty).
This fails success criteria 1.3.1 (Info and Relationships) and 4.1.2 (Name, Role, Value) Form control label is missing text.
The university logo image does not have appropriate alternative text.
Unavailable products in the website catalogue do not have alternative text descriptions.
Alternative products in the catalogue have unnecessary alternative text descriptions.
There are no alternative text descriptions for the verification codes generated.
Reflowing at 400% causes some dropdown items not to be fully visible.
Text spacing also causes text overflow.
Colour contrast is not sufficient for the social media links as well as borders around catalogue quantity and ‘All Departments’ call-to-action button and inactivated experience buttons.
The website does not have the language set on each page.
This fails success criteria 3.1.1 (Language of Page) Language of page has not been set.
For all pages on the website, the language of the page should be interpreted as British English (en-GB).
On the My Account page of the website, the ID used for an element on the page is also used for another element on the same page.
This fails success criteria 1.3.1 (Info & Relationships) and 4.1.1 (Parsing) Element ID is not unique.
Although we have no control over the structure of the website, we are in discussions with the 3rd party supplier of this platform concerning their plan to address digital accessibility compliance issues that the platform contains.
Once we have established a position in relation to this platform, we will update this statement.
A custom solution for the University is not a viable option and we are claiming that it would be a disproportionate burden at this time.
This statement was prepared on 23 September 2020.
It was last reviewed on 23 September 2020.
The website was last manually tested in August 2020 and undergoes automatic testing every 5 days.
Using the Siteimprove platform, an automated digital accessibility review of the website is undertaken every 5 days.
The manual digital accessibility assessment of the website was undertaken on the 27 August 2020.
It was carried out by AbilityNet Ltd and consisted of 3 webpages using 10 different accessibility tests.
To assist in these activities, we have engaged a sector-leading web governance platform - Siteimprove.
We are also committed to ensuring that digital accessibility is embedded in the digital creation and development process and this entails a programme of staff training in a variety of areas of digital accessibility from understanding WCAG 2.1 through to creating accessible documents with Adobe InDesign depending upon roles.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/about-our-website/accessibility-online-application-website:
The website referred to in this statement is our online application website ("the website", "our website", "this website", "the site").
The website is built on the Ellucian Banner ERP.
For example, the text can be resized freely on the platform.
Heading levels have been omitted and web pages are incorrectly marked up within a table.
This fails success criteria 1.3.1 (Info and Relationships), 2.4.2 (Page Titled), 2.4.6 (Headings and Labels).
No keyboard focus indicator.
This fails success criteria 2.4.7 (Focus Visible), 2.4.11 (Focus Visible (Enhanced)).
Offering a skip link to move keyboard users straight to the ‘Find a Programme’ would be beneficial.
Input fields and list boxes are not programmatically associated with their respective labels.
In-line error messages are not always clear in relation to what the error is and how it can be corrected.
Form select boxes have no descriptions and fail success criteria 1.3.1 (Info and Relationships), 3.3.2 (Labels or Instructions), 4.1.2 (Name, Role, Value).
Colour contrast is not sufficient for the UWS footer logo, all footer text and placeholder text.
The pages contain element IDs that are not unique.
This fails success criteria 1.3.1 (Info and Relationships), 4.1.1 (Parsing).
It was last reviewed on 22 September 2020.
It was carried out by AbilityNet Ltd and consisted of 2 pages using 10 accessibility tests.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/about-our-website/accessibility-uws-libguides:
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 and W3C Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.2 (WCAG2.2) .
The digital platform referred to in this statement is our Library Guides platform ( https://uws-uk.libguides.com/home ) (“LibGuides”, “the website”, “our website”, “this website”, “the platform”, our platform”, this platform”, "the site").
UWS run a number of other publicly available websites, platforms and digital solutions but these have their own accessibility statements.
LibGuides is a third-party platform by Springshare LLC (Springshare).
LibGuides is a flexible platform for creating and sharing library user guides and maintaining A-Z list of collections and databases.
It is a template-based platform that allows us to leverage content to enhance the user and learner experience.
This accessibility statement refers to our current and public version of LibGuides (using Base LibGuides ).
However, we have currently upgraded the platform (to LibGuides CMS ) and are working offline to create a new LibGuides experience for our users.
Springshare state that LibGuides has been designed to comply with internationally accepted web standards and guidelines in order to make it as accessible to as many people as possible.
Springshare also note that they have used W3C Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.1 (WCAG2.1) as their guide to developing the platform.
Springhare provide more information on their commitment to enabling digital accessibility for everyone and their platform’s compliance on their Accessibility Statement webpage:
Springshare’s Accessibility Statement
We are aware that some parts of the platform are not fully accessible, and this may cause some users problems accessing some of the content within the platform (see Technical Information section below for more details).
At UWS, we are committed to digital accessibility, and we want as many people as possible to be able to use this platform.
For example, this platform will allow you to:
The platform itself is based on templated and reusable components to ensure a more consistent user experience.
We do, however, recognise that issues have been identified accessing content on the platform.
We are continually working on adding, updating and removing content from the platform which will change the digital accessibility status over time.
Where we have identified digital accessibility issues that we cannot alter at a local level, we also feedback to Springshare LLC.
Where appropriate, we may provide some hints and links in the sections below.
Suggestions are offered in good faith for user convenience; but please note that any reference to the use of plugins and software are used at your own risk.
The following list highlights some of the main accessibility points across the platform:
The platform can be viewed at a magnification of 400% on 15.6” and 14" laptop screens and screen sizes greater than this, using all major browsers and content reflows accordingly.
The platform responds well on desktop and on mobile using different size browsers.
We add content according to responsive templates within the platform.
We are aware of reports of magnification and reflow issues with some users who were using a 13-inch screen MacBooks/MacBook Pro (iOS) using Google Chrome browser.
However, we have been unable to replicate this internally and externally.
There are a very small number of elements where magnification causes pixelation in images (see Technical Information section below for more details).
All platform pages can be accessed easily by keyboard.
There are some issues surrounding the focus state identification across the platform (see Technical Information section below for more details).
The platform tries to use a logical semantic structure to all pages so that content is as meaningful to users of assistive technologies, as possible.
That noted, there are some issues surrounding the use of headings and semantic structure of pages across the platform (see Technical Information section below for more details).
LibGuides uses a pseudo-consistent page structure wherever possible and provides "Skip links" to allow repetitive navigable elements (e.g.
This noted, there are some issues surrounding the use of keyboard focus, alternative text, programmatically identifiable elements, and semantic structure of pages across the platform (see Technical Information section below for more details).
Across the vast majority of the website, default colour contrasts meet accessibility guidelines.
However, we have identified instances and elements where this is not the case (see Technical Information section below for more details).
Automatic playing videos and carousels can be distracting and even impactful; we ensure none of ours autoplay.
All UWS videos will have captioning added.
We have tried to ensure that all new UWS videos have had captions added prior to loading to streaming services in order to make them as accessible as possible.
We are working to ensure that appropriate descriptions have been added to platform content elements that display links such as Read more or Find out more across the site for users of assistive technologies.
There are a significant number of broken links on the website which link to websites and platforms of external third-party providers.
We are working to rectify these or remove them completely (see Technical Information section below for more details).
We are working to ensure that all images across the site have been identified as either decorative or non-decorative and have alternative text descriptions according to their category.
The platform has been assessed using NonVisual Desktop Access (NVDA).
It uses page and element labels and instructions to ensure that visually impaired users understand the purpose and content therein.
There several are known issues though with semantic structure, hidden content and missing programmatic information etc.
We are working to rectify these issues (see Technical Information section below for more details).
AbilityNet has advice on making your device easier to use if you have a disability.
Also, UWS’s Disability Service webpage offers up-to-date information and support options for prospective as well as current students and also staff with specific learning difficulties, disabilities, sensory impairments, mental health difficulties and medical conditions.
You can contact us if you have digital accessibility feedback, issues, questions, or comments relating to our LibGuides platform.
Please provide the web address (URL) of the page(s) in which you find the problem, a description of the issue and your name.
We aim to respond to your enquiry in 21 working days.
This website is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.2 (WCAG2.2) - AA standard, due to the non-compliances and exemptions listed below.
We have been made aware of reports of magnification and reflow issues with some users who were using a 13-inch screen MacBooks/iMacPro.
However, we have been unable to replicate this.
Where this may be encountered, this would fail success criterion 1.4.10: Reflow.
We have identified this issue to our supplier and will update this statement in September 2025.
There are interactive elements that do not receive focus when tabbing through the page.
As a result, they cannot be operated with a keyboard.
Interactive elements must be entirely compatible with a keyboard.
Users should never need to use a mouse.
This fails success criterion 2.1.1: Keyboard.
There are instances across the platform where the keyboard focus order is not logical, navigates onto the same interactive component a number of times, or does not remain on a currently active element.
There are also instances across the platform where non-interactive components receive focus; this may confuse keyboard users.
The Focus Order does not need to mirror the visual order, but interactive elements must receive focus in a manner that makes sense; it must not be illogical or make the interfere with the operability of components.
This fails success criterion 2.4.3: Focus Order.
Some functional images have been identified as having inappropriate or missing text alternatives.
Non-text content must have appropriate alternatives.
This is required for the content to be understood by all users.
This fails success criterion 1.1.1: Non-text Content.
Some content on the platform is inappropriately hidden which breaks reading order.
When content has a meaningful order, an appropriate reading order needs to be programmatically determined.
This assists users with assistive technology to navigate the content and understand it; prevents content from appearing unstructured and disorganised to users.
There are instances across the site where the appropriate reading order has not been programmatically determined.
This fails success criterion 1.3.2: Meaningful Sequence.
There are a number of instances across the platform where we have identified elements, regular link text and placeholder text as having insufficient colour contrast between displayed text and a coloured background.
This fails success criterion 1.4.3: Contrast (Minimum).
We aim to fix this by September 2025.
There is information across the platform that is visually communicated exclusively through the use of colour.
Understanding content and operating interactive elements on websites and platforms must not rely on colour.
This may particularly disadvantage low vision and colour-blind users.
There is not an additional visual cue that these elements are links.
This fails success criteria 1.4.1: Use of Colour and 1.4.3: Contrast (Minimum).Where we can fix such issues within templates, we aim to fix this by September 2025.
However, where we are unable to fix these (system-level issues that cannot be addressed by us), we have identified this issue to our supplier and will update this statement in September 2025.
There are images in use across the platform that contain significant levels of text.
Text should not be embedded in images.
This can make the content inaccessible for users with impaired vision.
For example, screen readers rely on the text being included in text alternatives, which are commonly not effective for communicating multiple sentences or structured text.
This fails success criterion 1.4.5: Images of Text.
Content in some page elements across the platform that do not categorise the content within the page or element structure.
If a relationship between elements is expressed with visual cues, it also needs to be programmatically determined within an element on a webpage.
This enables assistive technologies to communicate the relationships to users.
Similarly, element or page content sometimes breaks structural semantics.
Some content may seem unstructured or disorganised.
Some unordered lists have not been marked up semantically across the platform.
In addition, there are some elements that are visually communicated as being key and value pairs (description list items) which have not been programmatically determined.
These fail success criterion 1.3.1: Info and Relationships.
Some headings are not marked-up semantically and some text uses heading semantics inappropriately across the platform.
Some elements categorise content but are not marked as headings and there are some elements contained within heading tags that do not title or categorise other content.
This can be confusing for users of assistive technologies.
There are pages across the platform where interactive elements and page states are not programmatically identifiable.
All such elements need a programmatically determined name, role and value.
These properties must be accurate and appropriate.
This may impact users who interact with the platform using accessibility properties, e.g.
users of screen readers and voice recognition technology.
This fails success criterion 4.1.2: Name, Role, Value.
We are aware of a significant number of broken links across the platform on a number of pages.
These were added to our platform in order to link users to external third-party platforms and resources.
Over time, some of these third-party platform owners have changed the asset/page names to which we initially linked to or have removed the assets/pages from their platform completely.
We are working to resolve the broken links by updating them and / or removing them where appropriate.
This relates to success criterion 2.4.4: Link Purpose (In Context).
Because of the volume of broken links, this is an ongoing exercise, but we will update this aspect of this statement by September 2025.
Many hyperlinks on the platform do not all have text alternatives.
Text alternatives do not need to be visible and is usually added in HTML.
However, links represented by images or icons can be problematic to users with vision impairments.
Missing alternative text in links presents real difficulties for users of assistive technologies and impairs the user experience.
Text alternatives should describe the link’s purpose – what visitors can expect to see after they click it.
This fails success criteria 2.4.4: Link Purpose (In Context), and 4.1.2: Name, Role, Value.
We aim to fix these by September 2025.
A number of pages across the platform have used inline frames (iframes) to display content (often new media) from other parts of the web, e.g.
YouTube videos etc.
These do not currently have text alternatives.
Every iframe should have a text alternative that summarises its content or purpose.
This fails success criteria 1.1.1: Non-text Content and 4.1.2: Name, Role, Value.
Some pages on the platform contain empty headings (heading tags with no text content).
Headings are used to manage the presentation and therefore the digestion of content for users.
They need to be used correctly especially for users of screen readers.
Failing to properly define and use headers for content (no text) or images (no alternative text) impairs the user experience of vision impaired users.
This fails success criteria 1.3.1 Info and Relationships and 2.4.6: Headings and Labels.
In addition, headings are not always structured on many pages across this platform.
On these pages, one or more heading levels have been omitted; they should follow a nested structure from <h1> to <h6>.
Heading tags help assistive technology users understand how the content is structured and can help in-page navigation.
This fails success criteria 1.3.1 Info and Relationships and 2.4.6 Headings and Labels.
See Semantic Structure (above).
A small number of pages on the platform refer to buttons which have missing alternative text within content blocks.
Some of these appear to be ghost buttons (created in HTML but which have with no content) and these need to be removed.
Some need to have titles added.
This fails success criteria 2.4.4: Link Purpose (In Context) and 4.1.2: Name, Role, Value.
Where we are unable to access the code to add appropriate alternative text, we have identified this issue to our supplier and will update this statement in September 2025.
The accessible name of any interactive element should contain its visible text label.
One page on the platform does not conform to this requirement.
Using two different names for a single page element can create a confusing user experience for assistive technology users.
This is especially true for speech-input users who will experience difficulty activating a control if the displayed label does not match the assigned accessible name for the element.
This fails success criterion 2.5.3: Label in Name.
We have identified this issue to our supplier for clarification (esp.
surrounding form submission CTAs) and will update this statement in September 2025.
There are pages across the platform where content which is triggered by a mouse hover or keyboard focus is either not dismissible or persistent.
There are certain conditions which must apply to triggered content – it must be dismissible without moving mouse or keyboard focus, users must be able to move the mouse over new content without it being dismissed and content must be persistently visible until the user moves their mouse of keyboard focus onto other page elements.
Triggered content issues will impair the user experience.
This fails success criterion 1.4.13: Content on Hover or Focus.
When interactive elements receive keyboard focus, they must provide a visual cue as to this focus status update.
There are elements across the platform that receive focus, but which do not provide any visual cue.
There are instances on the platform where there is no visual difference between when the element is not receiving keyboard focus and when the element is receiving keyboard focus.
In addition, there are instances across the platform where the keyboard focus indicator is barely visible.
Keyboard-only users may struggle to track their position on the page without focus indication or with difficult to see focus indication.
This fails success criterion 2.4.7: Focus Visible.
There are a number of pages across the platform where the interactive elements do not meet the minimum required size or spacing requirements.
Interactive elements, like buttons or links, should be large enough or be positioned, so they can easily be clicked or tapped by users with physical impairments.
This fails success criterion 2.5.8: Target Size (Minimum).
The LibGuides platform itself contained a relatively small number of downloadable PDFs.
These PDFs were not fully accessible.
These are being replaced with newer versions for the coming academic session.
Generally speaking, PDFs contain machine readable content, but they have a number of additional issues that need to be addressed to raise their accessibility up to the required standards.
Where LibGuides links to other UWS platforms which contain a significant number of downloadable PDFs, there may also be a large number of historic PDFs which currently fail in combinations of the above success criteria and on success criterion 1.4.5: Images of Text.
These are likely to be of scanned copies of archived examination papers and probably contain scanned text which may not have been converted to computer-readable text.
These may not be able to be amended in a reasonable timeframe due to the potential number of papers impacted.
If this is the case and one the past examination papers you require is one of those papers, please contact us directly and we will work with you to resolve the issue.
We are currently commencing the process of replacing PDFs on the LibGuides site for the coming academic session to address these issues.
We plan to complete this work by September 2025.
Office file formats* published before 23 September 2018, unless they are active and necessary to tasks that we are performing.
PDFs before 2018 and archive PDFs (documents which are out of date and replaced with newer version but still published for archive purposes.).
* the term "Office file formats" refers to a document in a format that is not intended primarily for use on the web but is included in web pages, e.g.
This statement was prepared on 05 August 2024.
We have undertaken both a manual digital accessibility audit and assessment of the platform through a third-party and an automated digital accessibility audit and assessment of the platform using a sector-leading web governance platform.
The results of both assessments informed the creation of this accessibility statement and the planning of remediation activities moving forward.
It platform was externally reviewed and manually tested on 15 July 2024 by AbilityNet Ltd.
The platform will undergo automatic testing periodically.
The manual digital accessibility assessment of the website was completed on the 15 July 2024.
The assessment was carried out using a variety of tools, including assistive technologies such as the NVDA screen reader.
and used a Windows 11 computer using a Firefox browser.
LibGuides is a third-party platform by Springshare LLC.
LibGuides is a template-based platform that allows us to leverage content to enhance the user and learner experience.
The manual assessment was undertaken on a cross-sample pages and components that are representative of the platform itself.
In this way, it could identify accessibility issues that would need to be addressed for the site to be compliant with accessibility legislation and guidelines.
The manual audit and assessment had two main components:
In addition, the manual audit and assessment looked at a single PDF and assessed against 54 separate tests.
The website is also assessed using a sector-leading, automated website governance platform (Siteimprove) to identify accessibility issues, errors, warnings.
This statement was initially prepared in August 2024.
We review this statement at least annually and will next review it before September 2025.
We are committed to ensuring that our library platforms are accessible to all.
We are also committed to ensuring that digital accessibility is embedded in the digital creation process and this entails a programme of staff training in a variety of areas of digital accessibility from understanding WCAG 2.2, creating and using accessible documents, using HTML tags accurately and others.
We are also undertaking a series of remedial activities from adding alternative text to elements, removing/updating broken links, replacing images with embedded text.More significantly, we are working on the creation of a new LibGuides experience for our users.
This is being developed on LibGuides CMS , an upgraded platform experience from Base LibGuides - the version of the platform that we currently use and which all the accessibility issues identified within this statement refer to.
We are also in contact with Springshare to identify and share system-level accessibility issues.
This is to elicit an understanding of Springshare's development roadmap from the with respect to the system-level issues that have been surfaced as a result of our accessibility audits and assessments and which we at UWS are not in a position to rectify locally.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/about-our-website/accessibility-uws-primo:
The digital platform referred to in this statement is our Library Search platform ( https://uws-primo.hosted.exlibrisgroup.com/primo-explore/search?vid=44PAI_V1&sortby=rank&lang=en_US ) (“Primo”, "LibSearch", “the website”, “our website”, “this website”, “the platform”, our platform”, this platform”, "the site").
Primo is a third-party platform by ExLibris (part of Clarivate™ - a leading global provider of transformative intelligence).
Primo is a library discovery service which is a powerful search tool provided by libraries to enable users, such as students, and academics to search and discover a wide range of library resources from a single interface.
These resources can include books, e-books, journals, articles, databases, multimedia items, and more.
Clarivate™ state that Primo has been designed to comply with internationally accepted web standards and guidelines in order to make it as accessible to as many people as possible.
Clarivate also note that they have used W3C Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.2 (WCAG2.1) as their guide to developing the platform and that they constantly review their platform annually based on external audits and customer feedback.
clarivate's notes on Accessibility for Primo
The platform is based on ‘out-of-the-box’ templated and reusable components to ensure a consistent user experience.
For example, you can zoom in, up to 400% and the screen will act responsively.
We also provide digital accessibility feedback to Clarivate™ over issues that we cannot amend ourselves.
The platform can be viewed at a magnification of 400% and content reflows accordingly, across it and is generally responsive working with desktops, laptops and mobile devices.
That noted, there are some issues surrounding the use of some headings and the semantic structure of some pages across the platform (see Technical Information section below for more details).
Primo uses a pseudo-consistent page structure wherever possible and provides a "Skip link" to allow repetitive navigable elements (e.g.
Unfortunately, at the time of publication, across the platform, default colour contrast does not meet accessibility guidelines.
We have identified several instances and elements where this is the case (see Technical Information section below for more details).
We are working to address this as soon as possible by reviewing and reworking the platform CSS.
We are working to ensure that appropriate alternative text descriptions have been added to platform interactive elements across the site for users of assistive technologies.
We have reviewed the accessibility of our platform using the web governance platform, Siteimprove, for an automated accessibility audit.
We have also undertaken a manual accessibility audit of the platform using AbilityNet Ltd.
We are aware that some parts of the platform are not fully accessible, and this may cause some users some problems accessing content within the platform (see Technical Information section below for more details).
You can contact us if you have digital accessibility feedback, issues, questions, or comments relating to our Primo platform.
There are instances across the platform where the keyboard focus order is not logical, navigates onto the same interactive component a number of times, is not set onto the component when it is opened, does not follow into expanded elements, fails when content has been removed from certain pages, does not remain on a currently active element, does not return to triggered elements, is given to page elements unnecessarily.
We have identified these issues to our supplier and will update this statement in September 2025.
There are checkboxes and form fields across the platform that are not associated with their visual group label.
The purpose of the interactive elements may be unclear to users and content may seem unstructured.
This fails success criterion 1.3.1: Info & Relationships.
Some form fields across the platform may either be visible but not associated with the form element itself, or not visible at all.
Every form element must have a descriptive text label associated with it.
If it doesn’t, it makes it difficult for users of assistive technologies to use the platform, e.g.
speech-input users to control the form element.
There are a number of instances across the platform where we have identified interactive elements, regular link text and placeholder text as having insufficient colour contrast between displayed text and a coloured background.
This fails success criteria 1.4.3: Contrast (Minimum), 1.4.6: Contrast (Enhanced), and 1.4.11: Non-text Contrast.
This fails success criteria 1.4.1: Use of Colour and 1.4.3: Contrast (Minimum).
Interactive elements must have labels.
In the context of this success criterion, the label is the visual signifier that communicates the nature of the form field.
These visual signifiers must appropriately communicate the purpose of the form fields.
There are elements that do not have a permanent label.
This may particularly disadvantage users that find navigating the web cognitively challenging.
Users may struggle to understand the purpose and operation of the interactive elements.
The use of temporary labels may confuse or misguide users.
This fails success criterion 3.2.2: Labels or Instructions.
If a relationship between elements is expressed with visual cues, it also needs to be programmatically determined.
This enables assistive technology to communicate the relationships to users.
Content may otherwise seem unstructured or disorganised.
There are elements that are visually communicated as being interrelated, unordered list items.
However, malformed list semantics have been used.
This fails success criterion: 1.3.1: Info and Relationships.
There are interactive elements with overridden/no accessible names.
The result is that the names are inappropriate.
In addition, there are dynamic selection tracking updates that are not programmatically determined across the platform.
This fails success criterion 4.1.3: Status Messages.
We are aware of a number of broken links across the platform on a number of pages.
This is an ongoing exercise, but we will update this aspect of this statement by September 2025.
This fails success criteria 2.4.4: Link Purpose (In Context), 2.4.9: Link Purpose (Link Only), and 4.1.2: Name, Role, Value.
This fails success criterion: 4.1.2: Name, Role, Value.
This fails success criteria 1.3.1 Info and Relationships.
If a text alternative is not provided, buttons represented by images or icons may be unusable to visitors using assistive technology.
In this case, the text alternative should describe what the button does or what users can expect to happen if they click it (not the visual features of the button).
Titles need to be added to some buttons.
Every webpage needs a descriptive title.
The title is the first thing announced by a screen reader after a page loads.
This lets the user know where they are on your site and what type of content to expect.
You should be able to add a page title from your CMS without needing to access the source code.
Some pages on Primo do not have a title.
This fails success criterion 2.4.2: Page Titled.
There are a small number of instances on the platform where elements do not conform to this requirement.
At this particular juncture, an upgrade of the Primo platform to the latest version would require staffing levels that we do not currently have budget for.
It would require the secondment of several members of the core library staff for several months on a project of this scale.
As there is insufficient budget to facilitate the backfilling of any seconded posts, this would mean that we would not be able to support our core services and library users would suffer as a result.
Consequently, we are unable to commit to upgrading the Primo platform at this juncture and are citing platform upgrading as a disproportionate burden.
We have undertaken a manual digital accessibility audit and assessment of the platform through a third-party.
In addition, we have undertaken an automated digital accessibility audit and assessment of the platform.
The results of both assessments informed the creation of this accessibility statement and in planning remediation activities moving forward.
It platform was externally reviewed and manually tested on 15 July 2024 and will undergo automatic testing periodically.
Primo is a third-party platform by Clarivate™ which is a template-based and allows us to leverage content to enhance the user and learner experience.
We review this statement at least annually and will next review it in September 2025.
We are also undertaking a series of remedial activities from amending the CSS, adding alternative text to elements, removing/updating broken links, replacing images with embedded text, and we are in contact with Clarivate™ to feedback our accessibility audit findings and elicit a development roadmap with respect to some of the more system-level issues that have been surfaced as a result of our accessibility audits and assessments and which we at UWS are not in a position to rectify directly.
We will be revisiting the question of upgrading the Primo platform for the annual UWS operational planning cycle (for 2025/26) and will update this statement accordingly.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/about-our-website/accessibility-programme-specification-and-module-descriptor:
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 and Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.2 (WCAG2.2) .
The online platform referred to in this statement is our Programme Specification & Module Descriptor (PSMD) repository ("PSMD", "the repository", "our platform", "this platform", "the site", "the website", "the webpage", "the solution").
We run a number of other publicly available websites and online platfdorms but these will have their own accessibility statements.
As of May 2024, PSMD is a temporary, bespoke (non-proprietary), public-facing digital solution for document storage which will be used in the short-term to house all of UWS's academic programme specifications and module descriptors until a more robust, web-based digital solution is developed in-house.
The previous PSMD solution was a web-based solution.
However, this has been sunsetted as a result of being compromised following a significant cyber-attack in July 2023.
The current solution is built on Microsoft's Internet Information Services (IIS) for Windows® Server which is a flexible, secure and manageable web server for hosting online content.
Although a temporary solution, we want as many people as possible to be able to use this website in order to find out more about the academic content of their courses and modules prior to enrolling and throughout their academic studies at UWS.
Some aspects of the temporary solution cause accessibility issues and these are identified in the Technical Information About this Website’s Accessibility section below.
You can contact us if you have digital accessibility feedback, issues, questions, or comments relating to this website.
For accessibility issues, contact us using the email or postal address details below:
We aim to respond to your email in 21 working days upon receipt.
If you require any of the documents that are housed on this website in a different format (e.g.
MS Word)(please note that we cannot, at present, supply content in every format but will do our best to accommodate your needs), please email us at the following address outlining the specific PDFs in question and the preferred format you are requesting:
This website is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.2 (WCAG2.2) - AA standard, due to the non-compliances listed below.
Colour contrast does not meet minimum or enhanced requirements.
There is insufficient colour contrast between the text and background on this page to meet either minimum or enhanced contrast requirements.
This fails Success Criteria 1.4.3 Contrast (Minimum) and 1.4.6 Contrast (Enhanced).
Interactive element does not meet minimum size nor spacing, or enhanced size on both landing and subsequent sub-pages.
Interactive elements, like buttons or links, should be at least 24 by 24 pixels, so they can easily be clicked or tapped by all users.
This fails Success Criteria 2.5.8 Target Size (Minimum) and 2.5.5 Target Size (Enhanced).
Line height is fixed.
The line-height has been fixed using an absolute length unit, such as px, pt or cm.
This fails Success Criteria 1.4.12 Text Spacing.
Page language has not been identified on sub-pages.
The main language of the page has not been declared within the <html> element.
This fails Success Criteria 3.1.1 Language of Page.
There is improper use of preformatted text element on subpages.
The preformatted text element <pre> tells the browser to leave text formatting as it is, preventing the user from adjusting letter spacing.
It should only be used for content that is either code or a <figure> such as ASCII art.
Without exception, the content of this element is meant to be visually presented to a sighted user.
This fails Success Criteria 1.4.12 Text Spacing
This digital solution is a temporary one and the information presented is in PDF format.
The solution contains a very large number of downloadable PDFs.
However, not all of these PDFs are fully accessible.
Whilst the majority of these PDFs contain machine readable content, they all will have a number of issues impacting their accessibility measured against the required standards.
Although not consistent, the PDFs typically fail accessibility guidelines on combinations of the following success criteria:
As noted above, the publishing of course and module information in PDF format is a temporary digital solution.
We are currently working on developing a new web-based solution to publish our programme specifications and module descriptors online, in an accessible format.
In the meantime, if you are seeking the information presented in these PDFs in an alternative format, please email psmd@uws.ac.uk outlining the specific PDFs in question and the preferred format.
As noted the current digital solution is a temporary one as a new, robust, web-based (non-pdf) solution is being developed in-house.
A proprietary solution is not a viable option at this juncture and we are claiming that it would be a disproportionate burden, at this time, to purchase one.
We will update this statement as the in-house development evolves to address the identified accessibility issues.
We have undertaken an automatic digital accessibility assessment of this website.
No manual digital accessibility assessment of the website was conducted at this time.
This statement was prepared on 25 May 2024.
The website was last automatically tested on 23 May 2024.
The website is assessed using a sector-leading, automated website governance platform to identify website errors, warnings - Siteimprove.
It was last updated in May 2024.
We review and update this statement annually and will next review it in July 2025 or at the launch of our our new web-based solution (whichever is sooner).
We are also committed to ensuring that digital accessibility is embedded in the digital creation and development process and this entails a programme of staff training in a variety of areas of digital accessibility from understanding WCAG 2.2 through to creating accessible documents with Adobe InDesign depending upon roles.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/about-our-website/uws-student-app-privacy-notice:
The UWS Student App is provided by the CampusM system and is used by the University to allow students to access UWS student systems from one place.
To enable an account to be set up for your student account details are used.
The University of the West of Scotland (the "University" or "we") is the data controller for the information you provide via the CampusM system.
Your data is used to:
Information is not stored in the app, it is presented directly from the data source such as our library system or email.
The system provides analytical data on how students interact with it and this data is available to us but we will only use this in anonymised form.
The app allows for push notifications to be sent to your device.
If you do not wish to receive notifications from CampusM, these can be turned off at the point of download or later via the settings on your device.
The system is provided to us by a 3rd party company called Ex Libris who act as a data processor on our behalf.
Upon downloading the app you will be required to read and agree to the Ex Libris End User Licence Agreement.
You should make sure that you are comfortable with the terms of the agreement before proceeding.
You can read a copy of the End User Licence Agreement and the Ex Libris Privacy notice below.
You can find further information about:
in our Student Privacy Notice.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/current-students/multi-factor-authentication-mfa-resetting-your-password:
Following this summer's cyber incident, the University continues to work hard to re-establish systems, with a particular focus on activating the priority systems required to underpin admissions, enrolment, induction, and teaching and learning.
However, as our systems are brought back on line, additional and enhanced digital security measures are being rolled-out to minimise the potential of such an incident in the future.
One such measure is the roll-out and use of Multi-factor Authenication (MFA) to access our networks and systems.
MFA is an authentication method that requires you, the user, to provide two or more verification factors to gain access to one of our resources such as an application, online account, or a VPN.
MFA is an industry-wide core component of a strong identity and access management (IAM) policy.
Rather than just asking for a username and password, MFA requires one or more additional verification factors, which decreases the likelihood of a successful cyber attack.
The main benefit of MFA is it will enhance UWS's digital security by requiring you to identify yourself by more than a username and password.
While important, usernames and passwords are vulnerable to brute force attacks and can be stolen by third parties.
Enforcing the use of an MFA factor like a thumbprint means increased confidence that UWS will stay safe from cyber criminals.
MFA works by requiring additional verification information (factors).
One of the most common MFA factors that users encounter are one-time passwords (OTP).
OTPs are those 4-8 digit codes that you often receive via email, SMS or, in the case of UWS, the Microsoft Authenticator App.
With OTPs a new code is generated periodically or each time an authentication / access request is submitted.
At UWS, you will need to set up the Microsoft Authenticator app in your smartphone first.
The code is generated based upon a seed value that is assigned to the user when they first register and some other factor which is particular to the app itself.
But, the important factor is that this is uniquely tied to your smartphone upon set up and means that access is specific to you and you alone.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/current-students/student-safezone-app:
WATCH OUR VIDEO ON HOW TO USE THE SAFEZONE APP
The safety and wellbeing of students and staff is our top priority at UWS.
We have introduced a new free smartphone app that promotes staff and student safety across all of our campuses.
SafeZone enables users to call for help and assistance when they need it most, giving you fast access to security whenever and wherever you are on campus, and allows the University to send notifications to users, e.g.
in the event of severe weather or building closure.
The main features of the app are:
The app is now available to download from the App Store or Google Play .
For those who have enrolled, you can learn more about the SafeZone app here.
Click below for a range of FAQ's on the use of the SafeZone App.
The Motion & Fitness Activity permission allows the app to detect when you are moving and when you are stationary.
This information allows it to pro-actively manage battery consumption so that, when stationary, location data is pulled less frequently.
You must complete your registration before you can begin using SafeZone
Phones: SafeZone currently runs on:
Important: Safezone for android requires google play services for geo-location, push notifications, and to periodically wake the app.
Google play services is supported by most android devices.
Newer Huawei devices (Mate 30 series, Honor 30 series and P40 series, and later) are not supported due to restrictions on Huawei's ability to use Google apps and services.
Blackberry 10 and Nokia x are only supported when Google Play services is installed manually.
Tablets: SafeZone currently runs on iPads or Android tablets however, as most tablets do not have a standard SIM-based incoming voice call capability (i.e.
no phone number), we recommend an iPhone or Android phone as your primary sign-up device.
If you don’t have a smartphone: but you do have a mobile phone and a tablet or iPad, use that device to sign up but put your separate mobile phone number in as your contact number.
SafeZone does not share a user’s location until they send an alert (emergency, first aid, or help), use the check-in or check-in timer features, or submit a tip-report that includes their location.
All information that users provide as a SafeZone user is protected by Federal and State Privacy Laws.
Read about SafeZone's privacy provisions at www.safezoneapp.com/privacy-policy .
SafeZone needs to access your location in order to allow you to ‘Raise Alerts’, ‘Check In’, connect Bluetooth devices and signup.
Note that your location is only shared when you raise an alert or check-in.
Even then, your location is only shared with the UWS team of professional responders.
Your right to privacy is always respected and you can cancel any alert or check-in at any time.
We recommend this is set to “Always Allow Access”
By always allowing access to location, you can check-in and then continue to use your phone as normal, minimizing SafeZone to the background and making calls, sending mail, using the internet and other apps.
If “only while using” is selected, this is not possible and SafeZone would have to remain in the foreground.
This causes additional battery-drain and stops your phone from being effective.
When you arrive on any UWS campus, you will be automatically checked-in by default.
This means your location will be shared with a small group of key colleagues while you are on campus only.
This helps ensure that you can receive emergency assistance as soon as possible should it be required, and also helps ensure you receive the correct guidance following any confirmed cases of Covid on campus.
If you would like to switch off automatic check-in, please:
SafeZone has a number of features designed to optimise battery usage.
Motion and activity detection limits the amount of location polling which is carried out (if allowed in your device’s permissions)
The app can have different activity profile settings, ‘default’ is recommended here for most users.
Also, remember to move SafeZone to the background once checked-in or when not being used.
In an emergency or major event UWS may need to send you ‘Alerts’ through push notifications.
These notifications may contain:
If you accidentally press any SafeZone call button, you can cancel the call by tapping the button again while the “timer” is winding down.
After the call (alert) has been sent, you can still cancel your request, but you will be contacted by security to ensure your safety.
UWS has configured your SafeZone app to send your alert or call to the most appropriate people who can handle your need.
If you are on any UWS Campus (Ayr, Dumfries, Lanarkshire, London, Paisley) by pressing the Emergency, First-Aid or Help button will put you in touch with the most appropriate person to address your immediate needs.
When you Check-In, your location (campus and building) and ID information is logged – this may be used in the event of an emergency or to support public health interventions related to COVID-19.
If you need help, you will still need to press an alert button or make a Help call.
SafeZone will operate at any location, however if you raise a call or alert when you are outside one of the defined SafeZone areas, your app will offer you a single-tap call to local emergency services (e.g.
in UK: 999).
The app is free to download, however users may incur data charges if using the app when not connected to WiFi.
On campus, all students and staff can get free WiFi access through Eduroam.
To check-in you first need to be inside a SafeZone Region.
There is a list of locations available in the Regions section of the menu.
For the check-in to work there needs to be data available (Wi-Fi, or network data) and the app needs to know your location within 200m.
Android devices, especially, have a number of power saving options which reduce location accuracy.
A few things to check are:
Finally, please check that Google Play Services are turned on as SafeZone utilises them to ascertain location.
If you are still having issues, you can contact us directly by emaiing the Help Team at:
support@criticalarc.com
Download our Safezone App Privacy Notice (pdf)
Download the UWS Safezone App Privacy Notice (pdf)

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/current-students/supporting-your-health-wellbeing/the-hub:
There is a Student Hub on every campus and online information and guidance at hub.uws.ac.uk and you can also contact the team by phone and WhatsApp.
All students can access information on the following services via The Student Hub:
You can contact The Student Hub in several ways:
WhatsApp - 0141 848 3998
Hub Portal - hub.uws.ac.uk
From any campus, you can consult the Hub Portal at any time.
Go to hub.uws.ac.uk
Monday - Friday , 09.30 to 16.00
Main Reception, University Avenue, Ayr, KA8 0SX
Monday, Tuesday, Thursday 09.00 to 17.00 Wednesday - Unstaffed Friday - 09.00 to 16.30
UWS Reception Area, Level 2
Monday - Friday - 09.00 to 16.30
Student Hub, Ground Floor, Building 1 , Lanarkshire Campus, Stephenson Place, Hamilton International Technology Park, South Lanarkshire, G72 0LH
Monday - Friday - 09.00 to 19.00
London Hub, 7th Floor, Export Building, 1 Clove Cresent, London, E14 2BA
Monday - Friday, 09.00 to 17.00
Robertson Trust Library & Learning Centre (Level 1), Paisley, PA1 2BE

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/current-students/supporting-your-health-wellbeing/counselling:
COUNSELLING AND WELL-BEING The Counselling and Wellbeing Team are here to help you look after your mental and emotional wellbeing.
Whether you are currently going through a difficult period, or simply want to get the best out of your time at UWS, we are here for you.
We offer a variety of options to support you and help you flourish.
These include Wellbeing Appointments , our Out-of-Hours Student Helpline , and lots of resources for Self Help – including our Reading for Wellbeing booklist and UWS Student Wellbeing Booklet .
Our counsellors are fully qualified, committed to working to Professional Standards, and familiar with the university environment and the demands of student life.
We aim to create a safe, affirming, and welcoming environment which embraces human diversity.
It is particularly important to us to provide equality of services and care to everyone, regardless of age, ability, race, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, or belief.
We welcome all enquiries and will do our best to help .
If you are an international student and would like to find out more about how the University’s Counselling and Wellbeing Team can help you.
If you are a care-experienced student, an estranged student or a student carer, you can find out about additional, ongoing support at UWS here .
If you have experienced inappropriate behaviour, such as gender-based violence, bullying and harassment, discrimination, hate crime and racism you can report it anonymously or provide contact details and get support from a UWS adviser here .
If your issues are mostly academic, you might want to check out our Support for Study services .
You can find a range of wellbeing resources on the Student Services Instagram and the UWS Wellbeing Twitter Social Media Handles Instagram: @uwsstudentservices Twitter: @uws_wellbeing
One-to-one wellbeing appointments are how we offer counselling at UWS.
These appointments provide a safe and confidential space for you to talk about your personal issues and concerns.
Getting help in an emergency
Getting help in an urgent situation
Discover ways to enhance your well-being
Discover ways to support students
REPORT+SUPPORT Find out how to report inappropriate behaviour, such as gender-based violence, bullying and harassment, discrimination, hate crime and racism, and get support.
The service works under the terms of the Data Protection Act.
A record is created on a shared Student Services computer-based system, where any personal information you share in counselling can only be accessed by a counsellor.
Any statistical data we compile about the use of our service is anonymous.
You’ll get more information at your first meeting, and we’ll ask your permission to keep those records.
Your counsellor will not normally contact your tutor.
If you ask them to do so, they would explore this with you.
In this situation they are likely to encourage you to contact your tutor or another member of the academic staff, while giving you emotional support to do this.
Counsellors are happy to support you in working out how you can help someone else who may be a worry to you.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/current-students/supporting-your-health-wellbeing/disability:
If you have a disability, a long-standing medical condition or a specific learning difficulty such as dyslexia, the Disability Service can help you make the most of your time at UWS.
To arrange a meeting with an adviser please complete a Student Support Request Form and return to disabilityservice@uws.ac.uk
UWS Disability Service Privacy Notice (pdf)
Our advisers can work with you to develop the right support for lectures, individual study and assessments.
Support is flexible: it can be adapted to the changing demands of your course.
We can:
Specific learning difficulties include conditions such as dyslexia, dyscalculia and dyspraxia.
UWS is an inclusive and modern university.
All students can make use of facilities such as:
Most students with a specific learning difficulty will find these resources meet their needs.
But if you feel you need extra support, please contact us by completing a request form .
The term 'neurodiversity' describes the variation in the way our minds work.
Neurodivergence is commonly associated with a series of conditions, including, but not limited to:
a condition which causes difficulties in reading or interpreting words, letters, and other symbols.
a condition which affects physical coordination.
a condition which affects ability to control attention and concentration.
a condition that affects communication, social interaction, and behaviour.
a condition that means you may make sounds or movements that you can’t control.
a condition that affects the ability to acquire arithmetical skills.
To arrange a meeting with an Adviser to discuss support available, please contact us by completing a Support Request Form and return to disabilityservice@uws.ac.uk
The University has a range of software tools available that you can utilise to study effectively and develop the skills you need to succeed.
TextAid
UWS Students get free access to TextAid tools to help with reading, spelling, comprehension, working memory and concentration.
Inspiration
UWS students also get free access to Inspiration which is visual thinking software.
Visual thinking is a learning style where the learner better understands and retains information when ideas, words and concepts are associated with images.
Find out more about key academic skills resources available on the Academic Skills Webpage .
SilverCloud gives you secure, immediate access to interactive CBT (cognitive behavioural therapy) modules.
Programmes include:
It’s easy to use, interesting and motivational.
Access it anywhere on your computer, tablet or mobile.
Learn more and sign up online .
Many websites provide help on how to get the most of the accessibility features and assistive technologies available for your computer.
Here are a few we would recommend.
We aim to make our campus inclusive and welcoming to all and offer a range of facilities and services to support disabled staff, students and visitors including:

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/current-students/supporting-your-health-wellbeing/multifaith-chaplaincy:
The chaplaincy team includes members of a wide range of different faiths, including Buddhist, Christian, Hindu, Humanist, Jewish, Muslim, Quaker and Sikh.
Talk to one of the team in confidence.
You can make an appointment by emailing multifaithchaplaincy@uws.ac.uk
Handle feelings of stress or anxiety.
Modules include Understanding Feelings, Facing your Fears and Managing Worry.
It’s easy to use and designed to be motivational.
Learn more and sign up online.
Take a break from daily pressures to pray, meditate or just reflect.
Each Scottish campus has a ‘sanctuary’.
Enrolled students and staff are welcome to use these rooms.
The rooms are open Monday to Friday, 9am to 8.45pm.
You can book time through Student Link or the Hub .
[F.E.A.] To ensure fair access, the room can be booked for one hour at a time, and block bookings can be made for one term only.
Please switch off mobile phones while using the rooms, and don’t eat or drink there.
You’ll find storage space for religious items and posters – please store them again before leaving.
We encourage students and staff to take part in faith and belief activities in the communities around our campuses.
Here are current local churches and faith organisations.
Get more information about Interfaith Scotland
Find out more about faith communities in Scotland

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/current-students/supporting-your-health-wellbeing/health-safety-information:
There has been a recent increase in the number of people diagnosed with mumps in Scotland.
The MMR vaccine protects against mumps (as well as measles and rubella) and has been given to children in the UK since 1998, meaning much of the population is protected.
However, if you don't think or are unsure if you have had this immunisation, we're encouraging students to double-check and make sure you’ve had two MMR vaccinations.
You can find out if you’ve had all your routine vaccinations by contacting your local GP or practice nurse who should be able to find out for you.
The NHS has more information on mumps and routine vaccination:
NHS information on Mumps
NHS Information on routine Vaccinations
Stay healthy and safe.
Check out our tips for well-being, on and off campus.
Meningitis and septicaemia (blood poisoning) are rare but life-threatening diseases.
Young people up to 24 are at the highest risk of getting meningococcal disease – so it’s important to be aware of the symptoms and know what to do.
Meningitis can strike quickly – check out this video about one student’s story.
Find out more about the symptoms and possible vaccinations .
Measles is a highly infectious viral illness that can be very unpleasant and sometimes lead to serious complications.
If you’re unsure whether you’ve been inoculated against measles, most commonly via the MMR vaccine, then it’s recommended that you talk to your GP to arrange this.
Find out more here on the NHS website.
If you’re new to Scotland, read this factsheet about how to get health care while you’re here.
Healthcare for People Coming to Scotland to Study (pdf)
Whether you’re new to Scotland or just to the local area, be sure to register with a local GP.
You can find details of local doctors’ surgeries and other health services here .
London students can find local GP services here .
Remember to register with a dentist too.
Keeping up with check-ups can prevent the need for costly treatment.
UK residents can normally get a free NHS eye test every two years.
If you have a low income, you may be able to claim help towards costs for services such as dental treatment or spectacles.
You need to complete an HC1 form.
More details here .
You can find information on local sexual health clinics and free condom suppliers at these links:
SAUWS also distribute free condoms from the Students’ Unions at Ayr, Lanarkshire and Paisley.
SAUW’s provision and advertising are localised according to the health services specific to each campus.
They offer pick-up points in Ayr, Paisley, and Lanarkshire where students can access condoms, internal condoms, and lubricant.
They also provide information about registering for the CCard schemes, which vary by health service area.
To support this, they have posters and guidance tailored to each campus’s local health service.
Both of SAUW’s advice workers have received NHS training to help students register for the CCard scheme and provide condoms, as well as information on STI and sexual health testing.
On campus, relevant posters and information is displayed directing students to STI and sexual health clinics.
If you hear the fire alarm on campus:
If you discover a fire:
Leave the building – walk quickly, don’t run.
There are trained first aiders on all the Scottish campuses.
If you need first aid for yourself or someone else, call 0141 848 3505 .
Give full details of where you are, including your campus, what the injury is and how serious it is.
A first aider will come to you.
Keep calm and keep the injured person calm.
Don’t let them leave until seen by the first aider.
If you think that an ambulance is needed, ask for one when you request first aid.
All the campuses are no smoking areas.
No one is allowed to smoke anywhere within the campuses, including buildings, grounds and vehicles.
This also applies to e-cigarettes and other electronic nicotine dispensing systems.
The smoking policy is enforced by security and other staff.
It’s supported by the university code of discipline for students.
It’s important to record any accident in the university or in university accommodation or activities such as field trips.
Report accidents through your department office or directly to ResilienceandSafety@uws.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/current-students/supporting-your-health-wellbeing/student-mental-health-agreement:
We all have mental health, and it effects not only how we feel, but our ability to work and learn productively, engage with those around us, and reach our individual potential.
We are committed to working together towards a university environment that is free from mental health stigma and supports students throughout their studies.
As such, the University, Students’ Union and Team UWS have come together to work in partnership to develop a Student Mental Health Agreement (SMHA).
The SMHA is a project led by Think Positive on behalf of NUS Scotland, and is a formal agreement to work jointly on promoting student mental health on campus.
The agreement details actions which set out to change perceptions of mental health among the university community, challenge negative attitudes, and promote positive outcomes and supportive strategies to maximise student resilience.
The agreement will be reviewed and developed each academic year, and signed by the executive lead in both the University and Students’ Union.
If you would like to hear more about the project or get involved in developing this year’s agreement please get in touch!
Email: SAUWSVPWelfareandWellbeing@uws.ac.uk
VIEW THE STUDENT MENTAL HEALTH AGREEMENT 2022-2023 (pdf)
Professor Jonathan Powles, Vice-Principal (Learning, Teaching & Students) at UWS, and Omoleye Awolaja, Vice-President of Welfare & Wellbeing at the UWS Students’ Union signed the Student Mental Health Agreement 2022-2023 on Monday 21st November 2022.
Professor Jonathan Powles, said:
Omoleye Awolaja, added:

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/current-students/supporting-your-health-wellbeing/consent-gender-based-violence:
At UWS we are committed to equality and diversity in all we do.
In line with this we are committed to playing our part in implementing the Equally Safe in Higher Education project.
This project aims to eradicate gender based violence in education and aligns to The Scottish Government's National Equally Safe Strategy, the vision of which is:
At UWS we want to encourage a culture which is respectful, promotes equality and does not tolerate sexual violence or related misconduct.
Our disciplinary procedures provide the means required to take appropriate action where unacceptable behaviour takes place.
It is important that all members of the UWS community have a clear understanding of what is meant by sexual consent.
This section provides some key information in relation to sexual consent and sexual assault.
This section provides some key information in relation to sexual consent and provides you with a few thoughts on what consent can mean and look like.
We will also look at what constitutes sexual violence.
Sexual consent refers to someone willingly agreeing to have sex or engage in a sexual activity.
To give consent, the person must be able to make their own decisions.
Someone who is incapacitated through alcohol or drugs, or who is asleep or unconscious, cannot give consent to sexual activity.
Consent to engage in one form of sexual activity does not mean that a person has given consent to other forms of sexual activity e.g., kissing doesn’t mean you’ve agreed to anything else.
Consent can be withdrawn at any time and where someone has consented to sexual activity once this does not mean that he or she has consented to this activity in the future.
Making sure you have consent before having any kind of sexual contact with another person is very important as sexual activity without consent constitutes sexual violence.
Find out more and watch the videos on the right of this section.
Sexual violence is any unwanted sexual act or activity.
There are many different kinds of sexual violence that exist on a continuum including but not limited to rape, sexual assault, child sexual abuse and sexual harassment.
Sexual violence can be psychological and/or physical.
Sexual violence in different forms has been recognised to be predominantly committed by men against women.
This finds recognition in the term ‘gender-based violence’.
The Scottish Government defines gender-based violence as a function of gender inequality, and an abuse of male power and privilege.
It takes the form of actions that result in physical, sexual and psychological harm or suffering to women and children, or affront to their human dignity, including threats of such acts, coercion or arbitrary deprivation of liberty, whether occurring in public or private life.
( Scottish Government 2016a:13 )
While it is acknowledged that GBV mostly affects women and that predominantly men are the main perpetrators, it may impact individuals of any age, gender, sexual orientation, faith or ethnicity.
GBV cuts across race, class, caste, region and religion.
(ESHE toolkit, 2021)
A person consents to sexual activity if he or she agrees by choice, and has the freedom and capacity to make that choice.
In Scotland the act of giving consent is known as 'free agreement' under the Sexual Offences (Scotland) Act 2009 .
The law recognises that a person might not have sufficient capacity because of their age or because of a mental disorder.
It also recognises that the amount someone has had to drink or the effect of drugs they have can also affect their ability to consent.
Under the same Act:
Some other relevant definitions include:
Sexual harassment:
A person commits sexual harassment when they behaves in a way which makes you feel distressed, intimidated or offended and the behaviour is of a sexual nature.
Sexual harassment is a form of discrimination under the Equality Act 2010.
Citizens Advice Bureau
Revenge Porn:
Revenge porn is a crime and constitutes the sharing of private sexual materials with intent to cause distress.
In English law consent exists where a person agrees by choice, and has the freedom and capacity to make that choice as defined in the Sexual Offences Act 2003 .
Under the same act:
For both men and women, the age of consent to any form of sexual activity is 16.
There are specific laws in place to protect children under the age of 13 who cannot legally give their consent to any kind of sexual activity.
A person under the age of 18 cannot consent to sex if it is with a person who has a duty of care or is in a position of authority or trust, such as a teacher, doctor or lecturer.
If you repeatedly ask for consent and are refused, this can count as sexual harassment.
At UWS we take gender based violence seriously and we want to ensure we provide a consistent, caring, and timely response when any member of our University community is affected by such violence.
Should you wish to speak to someone who can advise what support services are available at UWS a safe place to contact is the Hub and the student links on your campus.
Our staff will deal with your enquiry sensitively and they can also advise you of specialist support services available externally.
Information will be treated as confidential, unless there is a serious risk of harm to yourself or others.
Please contact the HUB by emailing hub@uws.ac.uk , in person or by phoning 0141 848 3800 or you can read more information below about counselling and specialist services.
The university offers a wide range of different services that might be relevant if you have been affected by sexual violence.
This short video outlines a few of the support mechanisms available at the University and Students’ Union.
The University recognises that experiences of sexual violence can affect many aspects of your personal and academic life.
You can access all relevant Student Support and Wellbeing Services via contacting the HUB or following this link .
The counselling service at UWS provides free confidential support to all students.
All of our counsellors are practised and skilled in providing support, and where relevant can refer you on to specialist support services.
To arrange to see a counsellor go to the Hub on your campus, phone on 0141 848 3800 or email hub@uws.ac.uk
Any student experiencing financial hardship as part of their experience of GBV can contact the Funding and Advice Team and can find out more online here .
Your Student Union can also provide support or refer you to a specialist.
Free E-Learning Module for ALL UWS Students on Gender-Based Violence.
All students can access this introductory course on Gender-Based Violence by Rape Crisis Scotland.
Rape Crisis believe students have the right to feel safe and supported at college and university, and that there's a role for everyone in making this a reality.
This course will give you an overview about what gender-based violence is, how it can impact people who have experienced it, and what you can do to help.
It will take around 40 minutes to complete.” Access the course here: Staff Development | openUWS
Name of Organisation
Target Group/Type of support
Contact Details
Glasgow and Clyde Rape Crisis (Ruby Project)
BAME women, support worker assigned
Ruby Project Website
Referral Form: Support for Women and Girls | Glasgow and Clyde Rape Crisis (glasgowclyderapecrisis.org.uk)
Scotland’s Domestic Abuse and Forced Marriage Helpline
BAME women, honour-based violence
0800 027 1234 (24/7)
helpline@sdafmh.org.uk
Scotland's Domestic Abuse and Forced Marriage Helpline
Scottish Women’s Rights Centre
Legal support (forced marriage protection order, free legal advice, advocacy support)
08088 010 789
(Mon 10AM-12:3-PM, Tues 12PM-3PM, Wed 10AM-1PM)
Scottish Women's Rights Centre
NAPAC (The National Association for People Abused in Childhood)
Adverse childhood experience (ACE)
0808 801 0331
(Mon-Thurs 10AM-9PM, Fri 10AM-6PM)
NAPAC – Supporting Recovery From Childhood Abuse
LGBT Health & Wellbeing
LGBT Helpline Scotland A national helpline providing information and emotional support to LGBT people, their families, friends and supporters.
Provides support to LGBT people who have experienced domestic abuse.
0300 123 2523
(Tue and Wed 12-9pm and Thurs and Sun 1-6pm)
LGBT Helpline Scotland (lgbthealth.org.uk)
helpline@lgbthealth.org.uk
AMINA (The Muslim Women’s Resource Centre)
BAME, financial wellbeing, VAWG
0808 801 0301 (Mon - Fri, 10am - 4pm).
Support is available in English, Urdu, Arabic, Bangla and Swahili
AMINA - Website
The Mankind Initiative
Men, confidential helpline for male victims and families/friends of domestic abuse and domestic violence
01823 334244
Mankind Website
Respect Men’s Advice Line
Helpline for male victims of domestic abuse
0808 8010327
(Mon – Fri 10am – 8pm)
info@mensadviceline.org.uk
(mensadviceline.org.uk)
FearFree
FearFree works with survivors of domestic abuse over 16 years old who are men or part of the LGBT+ community.
It covers Aberdeen, Aberdeenshire, East Lothian, Edinburgh, Glasgow, Midlothian and West Lothian.
Anyone can make a referral online or call for information.
https://fearfree.scot
fearfreeinfo@sacro.org.uk
0131 624 7270
More information here for staff and students - https://reportandsupport.uws.ac.uk/support/what-support-is-available-if-ive-experienced-gender-based-violence

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/current-students/supporting-your-health-wellbeing/student-success-team:
The Student Success team are here for all students, to provide proactive support and make sure you are successful in your studies at UWS.
We are here to empower you to stay on track with your studies and get the most out of your time at university.
Our role is to support students to engage with their studies and link you in with the services available at UWS.
We work with Schools and other services at UWS to develop and deliver initiatives and activities which will enhance the student experience and student success.
UWS Buddies
The Student Success team also manage a team of UWS student buddies; experienced UWS students like you.
University can take some getting used to, no one knows this better than students who have been through it all themselves.
Our buddies run online and in person meet ups and events for students.
Find out more about our buddies on the @uwsstudentsuccesshub Instagram page.
The Student Success team might email or call you from time to time to ensure you are engaging with your programme of study.
We want to make sure you have all of the resources and support in place to be successful in your programme.
We are not here to monitor or report but to help students feel more involved in their programme and the wider UWS community.
We want to ensure all students feel part of the UWS community.
Please feel free to get in touch with the Student Success team.
We have an overview of the support available at UWS and can point you in the right direction if you need it.
For any general enquiries contact The Hub
Read more about our Learner Analytics Privacy Notice 2025

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/current-students/supporting-your-health-wellbeing/sanitary-products-at-uws:
To support you to participate fully in university life, UWS are providing free sanitary products for students who need them while on campus.
You’ll find a variety of products available in numerous locations around all of our campuses, available for you to use when needed.
The right to free period products became law in Scotland in 2022 (although provision of free products has been in place for a few years in education settings).
While UWS will cater for your needs while on campus, the primary source for you to access products for free is through your local authority.
Your local authority website is the best place to start and will likely have a list of public venues, such as libraries, community centres and leisure centres, where you can access products.
We’ve included direct links to the most relevant local authority websites below.
You can also download the PickupMyPeriod app ( Android or Apple ) which links to venues in many communities where free products are available.
We a range of products available, including sanitary towels and tampons of varying absorbency.
You’ll find this range of products in each of the locations detailed above, so you can choose which best suits you.
We hope to ensure this scheme delivers access to free sanitary products to all students in need, but rely on students treating the scheme fairly and with respect.
Remember that, in Scotland, the primary source for you to access products for free is through your local authority, so you will have multiple locations from where you can access this service.
We would ask that you refrain from taking a large supply of products from campus locations as this only means nothing is left for an individual who might need a product urgently.
If you are going to be away from campus, whether that be for a holiday, placement etc., stock up in advance via your local authority (see links above).
Advice about Periods
Advice about Toxic Shock Syndrome
Click on the button below to find out more about Scotland’s approach to becoming the first country in the world to protect in law the right to access free period products for anyone who needs them:
Poverty & Social Justice

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/sport-and-physical-activity-at-uws:
University is an exciting time in your life and we are here to help you make the most of this experience and to provide opportunities to ensure you keep your body active as well as your mind.
As part of this commitment we offer FREE gym memberships to all of our students and staff at our UWS operated facilities.
Our passion for sport and exercise extends far beyond our free student and staff gym access.
We have a range of sport teams across numerous disciplines and our students represent UWS in individual competition as well.
Team UWS members represent us at Scottish and British level university competition.
Meanwhile the UWS Sport Scholarship programme offers a range of financial support, performance services and academic flexibility to our highest performing student-athletes.
Through sport we aim to support the preparation of high-performance athletes and high-performing people.
In addition, we enjoy a number of strategic partnerships with sporting organisations which benefit our students in a range of ways.
This includes the development of Team UWS itself and benefits across numerous academic subject areas from events management, sports journalism and our sport courses through placement opportunities and guest lectures.
Our current institutional partners include St Mirren FC, Caledonia Gladiators, Ayr Rugby and Celtic FC Women’s Team.
We also work with a wider group of Sport Governing Bodies, local clubs and facility operators who work with us and our students to provide the best experience possible to Team UWS members.
The University has also developed a reputation for excellence in sport and exercise science.
Our growing portfolio of programmes integrate biological and behavioural approaches to enhance human health and performance.
UWS Sport is proud that all UWS staff and students benefit from FREE access to UWS operated gym facilities.
We also welcome our local community to access our facilities.
Discover more about the sports, teams and exercise on offer around the campuses at UWS.
Read our Health Commitment Statement Here
UWS Sports Facilities Terms and Conditions of Use (pdf)
UWS Sport operate a gym within the Ayr Campus.
It is located just off the Atrium and overlooks the river, in room 2.090.
The gym offers a wide range of equipment and our staff are on hand to help you reach your fitness goals
The gym caters for all fitness interests and abilities, and there are a wide range of facilities available including cardio, abs and core equipment, fitness classes, free weights zone, functional training area and a resistance training area.
Facilities also include onsite shower and changing areas.
The gym boasts a wide range of equipment including, Star Trac cardio machines, a range of resistance machines, barbells and dumbbells.
Facilities include free onsite parking for all users.
UWS sport has agreement in place to allow UWS approved personal trainers to provide support services within our UWS operated Gym facilities.
For more information regarding provision on Ayr Campus please contact Colin Drew (Sports Operations Manager) via colin.drew@uws.ac.uk
The UWS Ayr Campus Gym offers our facility users a number of communication platforms to get the latest news and to get in touch with our team.
UWS students and staff at Dumfries Campus can access the gym and sports hall within the Dumfries & Galloway College building as part of the wider Crichton Campus partnership.
The sports hall can accommodate a range of activities such as badminton, netball and volleyball.
The facility and equipment available are ample to support a wide range of sports and recreation programmes.
The changing and individual showering facilities are situated next to the sports hall and fitness suite.
There are also a range of community facilities within the area.
The fitness suite comprises a range of cardiovascular and resistance training equipment.
The current opening hours for staff and students are below:
Access is only permitted at the moment to those who have completed induction prior to the pandemic.
Inductions are not currently running for new members.
For more information you can get in touch with our staff team through:
Email : SportDumfries@uws.ac.uk
UWS Sport operate a gym within the Lanarkshire Campus.
It’s located in Building 1 on the ground floor next to the Restaurant and benefits from an exciting fitness suite and group fitness areas.
The gym offers a wide range of equipment, and our staff are on hand to help you reach your fitness goals.
The gym and fitness classes are available for all to use, you don't need to be a UWS student or a member of staff, everyone is welcome.
The gym caters for all fitness interests and abilities.
All UWS students and staff benefit from free membership.
Other facility users can access the gyms using a pay-as-you-go model, or if you intend on using the gym on a regular basis we have a range of memberships starting from just £14 per month.
University of the West of Scotland welcomes our students, staff and wider community to access our gym facilities.
The University provides FREE membership to all students and staff.
UWS Sport also offers amazing value memberships for the wider community.
Our Lanarkshire Campus Gym has superb facilities to enable you to reach your fitness goals.
It has a fully equipped cardiovascular and fixed resistance area, functional training zone and strength & conditioning area.
It also has areas for our instructor led group fitness classes.
Facilities also include modern onsite changing and shower facilities.
Free car parking is also available.
Opening times are below: Monday - Friday : 7.30am – 8.30pm
Saturday & Sunday : 9am - 1pm
You can get in touch with our team via:
UWS Sport operate a gym within the Paisley Campus.
It is located on Level 3 of the Students’ Union building.
The gym offers a wide range of equipment and our staff are on hand to help you reach your fitness goals.
The gym caters for all fitness interests and abilities, and there are a wide range of facilities available including a cardio zone, abs and core area, fitness classes, free weights zone, functional training area and a resistance training area.
The gym boasts a wide range of equipment including, Star Trac cardio machines, a wide range of resistance machines, barbells and dumbbells.
In addition to this the gym facilities include functional areas comprising a range of equipment including boxing bags and suspension training stations.
Facilities also include free onsite parking for all users.
The University provides free membership to all students and staff.
The UWS Paisley Campus offers our facility users a number of communication platforms to get the latest news and to get in touch with our team.
You can get in touch with our team through:
Based in the heart of the Paisley Campus our brand new facility provides a wide range of facilities that will provide a positive atmosphere for our community to ensure they feel motivated to achieve their fitness goals.
The UWS outdoor Gym is a fantastic way to get yourself fit and healthy while enjoying an outdoor fitness experience.
Our well designed gym is based around developing technology within the outdoor fitness sector.
The site now boasts a full resistance cardio suite where you can select your desired level of intensity through our digital screens and full resistance on strength equipment machines including weights up to 130kg, all incorporated in a fully functional fitness space that caters for all levels of fitness and includes the below highlighted zones:

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/money-fees-funding/money-debt-advice/budgeting-and-planning:
A budget identifies whether you have enough money coming in to meet your outgoings, and how much you can afford to spend.
It allows you to see when and where you need to make changes to your spending, and can help you plan ahead for big purchases.
The first step to creating your budget is to establish how much money you have coming in.
This can be income from a job, grants, benefits, your student loan and any other sources.
If your income fluctuates, go with the lowest figure it is likely to be.
Be aware of any anticipated changes to your income and plan ahead.
Your student funding is for the whole year if you are a continuing student.
We strongly advise you divide your student income by 12 months when budgeting to help you best plan to manage financially.
Now you need to establish how much money you will be spending.
There are two types of outgoings:
While it is easy to budget for the fixed costs, setting a realistic limit on other costs will help you keep on track.
The UWS Money Magazine (PDF) can help you to estimate your costs and expenses.
At this stage, it might be useful to categorise your outgoings into essential and luxury.
That way, you can identify the areas to cut back on should your budget not add up.
Essential outgoings might include payments like rent, electricity and a TV licence, and common non-essential expenses include gym memberships and entertainment subscription services (Netflix, NOW TV, Spotify, etc.).
Use your budget to track when your payments are due.
That way, when you look at your bank balance, it is easy to see what payments are still to be made.
A great tip is to use a 2 nd bank account to move your spending money for the month so you don’t accidentally dip into your bill money.
Planning for emergencies is really important too, so try and set a small amount of your income aside each month to cover you in case of the unexpected.
If you would like more help understanding the basics of budgeting, or want some recommended in-depth resources, the websites below are good starting points:
There is no point preparing a budget if it doesn’t take everything into account.
Make a note of all of the one-off costs you expect throughout the year and when these will occur.
Put aside enough money each month to cover these and your budget won’t be affected.
Particular examples where this type of planning is effective are Christmas, birthdays, car costs such as MOT/servicing, and children’s school uniforms.
If you look at how much these expenses cost you in previous years, you can easily work out how much to set aside to help you pro-actively meet these costs.
Coming to university is really exciting and one of the most important life choices you will make.
Once you have chosen your course, you will want to be as prepared as possible.
This includes planning ahead financially, making sure you understand the funding you are entitled to, applying for this appropriately, and considering how this affects your budget.
Our UWS Money Magazine (PDF) features lots of helpful information, tools and resources to help you do this.
The first thing you need to do is find out what student funding you are entitled to apply for.
This can differ depending on your chosen course of study, and your circumstances.
Student Funding you’re entitled to apply for
You should also ensure you take into account any impact that being a student might have on your entitlement to benefits, so check out our Benefits webpage .
It’s important to do this research so you don’t rely on funding that you may not be eligible to receive.
The next thing you need to consider is how being a student will impact your outgoings.
This includes thinking about your cost of living while studying, and any financial commitments you will have.
Once you have a better understanding of how your income will change when you become a student, and what your outgoings will look like, it’s important to use this information to create a budget and see how your finances will look during your time at University.
Creating a budget will allow you to identify any potential shortfall, and gives you time to readjust your spending to make your budget balance.
Here are some great resources designed to help you plan ahead financially and create an effective university budget:
UWS Budgeting Module – This is a web-based tool that takes you through the process of preparing a budget.
How Much – This tool will help you identify the costs associated with living and studying.
You’ll be able to use this to work out your cost of living, and plan for one-off or irregular expenses.
Basic Budget – This basic budget template will help you create a budget, and look for areas that need to be addressed.
UWS Prepare to Study in the UK – This is a web-based tool designed exclusively for those students joining us from outside the UK.
It will help you understand more about money and the cost of living in the UK, and will take you through the process of preparing a budget.
How Much (non-UK) – This tool will help you identify the costs associated with living and studying in the UK.
Basic Budget (non-UK) – This basic budget template will help you create a budget, and look for areas that need to be addressed.
The course you choose to study and the government body who provides your funding will impact the scheduling of your student funding payments.
It's important to make a realistic budget that considers how your student funding is distributed.
This may mean you need to think about changing the dates you pay certain bills or becoming adept at holding funds back to pay for costs later.
Scottish Pre- Registration Nursing, Midwifery and Paramedic Science
Scottish Pre-Registration Nursing, Midwifery and Paramedic students are paid over a 12-month period each academic year.
This comprises of 13 payments which will be detailed in your award letter.
Payments are made roughly every 4 weeks and as such you should plan your budget around this schedule.
Costs to consider planning for would be placements.
Whilst you can claim expenses back for placement travel and accommodation, this occurs after the event, and it may help you to build up a surplus of funds you can dip into.
This reduces the impact on your overall budget and helps you to maintain your regular costs whilst you wait on your placement payments.
You may also find that your ability to work part time is impacted by the placement-led nature of your course and having a pot of funds would also help you to better manage in the absence of regular shifts.
Many students try to work more during the classroom-based sections of the course and set monies aside for periods of placement.
Scottish Undergraduate & Postgraduate Students
Scottish students on undergraduate courses have the option to be paid either over term time only or on a 12-month payment plan.
This will result in either a lower instalment over 12 months or larger installments but with a break in payments over the long summer break.
The overall funding available remains the same, there are simply options about how this is distributed.
Each year you make the choice on how you would like your funding to be paid.
You cannot change your preferred option part way through a year so it would be important to consider carefully, in advance, what works best for your household.
Students in the final year of study would only have the term time option so should plan around this and perhaps consider keeping funds to help with any gap between finishing studies and commencing employment.
Scottish students on postgraduate courses will have their funding split according to the course they are undertaking.
If you are coming to study a full-time masters, the duration would be 1 year and so the funding would be split over 12 payments.
If you were coming to study a PGDip, this is shorter, and the funding would be split into term time installments.
If you are being paid over the term time model, do remember that there may be a gap between your student funding stopping and other sources of funding such as benefits or employment starting.
It's worthwhile having a small surplus built up, if you can, to help you with any gaps between payments.
You may also find it is harder to find part-time work over summer than expected, so making some provision for summer can really help.
Students from England, Wales and Northern Ireland - Undergraduate and Postgraduate
Students from England, Wales and Northern Ireland are paid student support in 3 larger installments, at both undergraduate and postgraduate levels.
These broadly fall in September, January and April.
It will be important to think about stretching these funds to make sure your regular outgoings are covered.
If you can pay your accommodation costs up front, this may help you to budget if you pay a lump sum and then can budget the remaining funds for other expenses.
It may also help to have a separate bank account or pot to keep funds in and pay yourself a regular maintenance payment to avoid overspending and running out of funds.
Life is full of big, expensive purchases, from holidays abroad to buying a home.
No matter what you have in mind, it is never too early to start planning ahead.
You can also use your budget to work out if you can afford to take on more financial commitments, like car payments, repayments of debts or mortgage payments.
If your budget indicates that you won’t be able to afford adding on a new regular expense or setting money aside for a one-off buy, you should carefully consider whether you should go ahead with your purchase and should think about the impact this might have on your budget for the future.
Remember that having funds available on credit cards is not the same as having money in savings.
Starting a family is exciting, daunting and can be very costly.
Careful planning and research can help you to manage your finances when you are expecting the patter of tiny feet.
With such a change to your circumstances it is important to refresh your budget, taking into account both the new income you might be able to receive as a result of a new baby, and the new expenses that this will incur.
A great resource to make lots of savings in your baby's 1st year is the Money Saving Expert – Baby Checklist .
You should also check out our Benefits , and Discretionary & Childcare Funds webpages for further information on the potential sources of support to help you with the costs of having a family.
Income changes and the amount you pay for bills can fluctuate, so it is important to update and review your budget regularly.
If you are regularly spending more on certain items than your initial budget allowed for, reassess your situation and adjust your budget, or your expenditure, accordingly.
This magazine touches on the student funding that you may be entitled to, but the focus is on helping you budget and plan ahead for your time as a student.
If you feel you are budgeting carefully but still have no money left, then perhaps you are being unrealistic about what you spend.
Try a spending diary to itemise what you spend and get a true reflection of your spending habits.
Perhaps you indulge in life's little luxuries, such as takeaways or fancy coffees.
Try the Money Saving Expert: Demotivator to see the reality of how much this costs over a year or how much of your income it equates to.
It might just scare you out of your habit or at least make you more mindful of these money leaks.
If you are spending carefully but still feel you could be doing better, check out the tips on the Money Saving Expert How to Stop Spending guide to see how to save on your bills and essentials.
We have created a set of fun, interactive, web-based resources to help you understand your finances and plan an effective budget for university.
There are 2 versions of this resource – one for those students already from the UK, and one for students joining us from outside the UK.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/current-students/developing-your-career/support-for-entrepreneurs:
The Innovation Hub team has been formed together by the Student Innovation and Enterprise team at the University of the West of Scotland.
Together, we have created the Student Innovation Hub website to provide our students, graduates, staff and business partners with opportunities to expand their knowledge and skills around innovation and entrepreneurship in the one space.
VISIT THE UWS STUDENT INNOVATION HUB

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/business/recruit-our-students:
Our work with employers helps us equip our students to become universal, work-ready, successful graduates.
It informs our teaching and learning to align with industry needs.
Our long-established links with business date back to 1900, when Paisley Technical School was officially opened to meet the needs of industry in the west of Scotland.
Today, with over 20,000 students, comprised from over 130 different nationalities, UWS has a stream of fresh talent that can help to boost your business, give your organisation valuable extra capacity, a fresh perspective and new ideas.
We can help you to:
Reach students and graduates directly through our online vacancy platform.
This service is free of charge if advertising to UWS students and graduates only, or there is a small charge to advertise to other Scottish universities using the same platform.
You can advertise the following:
Read our Terms of Use (PDF) to find out how to register and use the platform.
Registering for the service takes just a few minutes.
Register
We’re happy to help you raise the profile of your organisation with our students.
To see a list of upcoming events and express your interest in participating, please visit our Employer Events Expression of Interest Form.
Our employer mentoring programme is an opportunity for you to share your skills and expertise with a student.
You’ll help them improve their confidence and employability skills, while adding to your own CV.
Getting involved in employer mentoring:
For more information about becoming a mentor, contact employermentoring@uws.ac.uk
Employability is the foundation of our teaching.
We ensure employer views and requirements are embedded in UWS course design and delivery, so you can be sure our students are equipped for today’s workplace.
Employers and alumni provide valuable insights into career options, knowledge, skills and current trends/challenges across their sector, while enhancing students’ professional networks.
Participate in:
To book a place at one of our Careers Fairs, or to find out more about any of the above ways to engage with our students, please contact careers@uws.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/alumni/get-involved:
There are lots of ways for former students to help and support current and future UWS students on their academic journeys:
UWS strives to be one of the most innovative higher education providers in the UK.
Help us to achieve this by supporting one of our many development projects
Advertise job or internship opportunities within your company or organisation to talented UWS students and attract the brightest and best graduates
Share your valuable experience and expertise with current UWS students.
Our award-winning mentoring programme matches you with a student mentee who will meet with you on a one-to-one basis, normally in your workplace.
Help us produce work-ready graduates by providing work placements or work-related learning projects to UWS students.
Work placement opportunities, which vary in duration, tend to commence in February or early summer.
Do you have limited time but you would like to give something back?
Sharing your career profile will help to inform and inspire the next generation of UWS students.
Do you want to join or start an alumni group?
By taking on the role of a group leader, you can help to support the University's alumni connections and meet fellow alumni in your city.
If you would like to know more about any of the ways you can support UWS please email alumni@uws.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/alumni/uws-development-fund-recurring-gift:
Thank you for choosing to make a difference to students’ lives at UWS.
Benefitting students across all five of our unique campuses, the Development Fund is helping to:
You can make a regular gift by completing the secure form below.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/alumni/uws-development-fund-single-gift:
You can make a single gift by completing the secure form below.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/current-students/supporting-your-studies/student-records/status-letters-transcripts:
A letter confirming your status as a student can be downloaded from the Student section of Self Service Banner .
This can be used to prove your student status for eligibility to student benefits (e.g.
student gym memberships, travel cards, etc.).
Please note that there is a separate letter available for the purpose of applying for a council tax exemption .
If you are a PGR student, to request a Status Letter please contact PGR@uws.ac.uk directly.
Students can print an unofficial copy of their transcript at any point following their enrolment at the University.
This facility is available from the Student section of Self Service Banner .
Students who have graduated and intend to give a copy of this transcript to a prospective employer should also ensure that they provide them with their degree parchment.
Students requiring an official (authorised) version of their Academic Transcript should see the section below.
Authorised transcripts which relate to study undertaken prior to 1992 have to be compiled manually, and may contain less detail than those relating to more recent programmes of study.
Transcripts can be requested in person at the Hub or Student Link on your campus.
Alternatively, you can complete an Academic Transcript Application Form , and email this to the Hub (the email address is listed on the form).
We aim to provide the transcript within 5 working days after receipt of the application form, although transcripts relating to study prior to 1992 which have to be prepared manually may take longer.
Please note that, at certain times of the year, especially during graduation and enrolment periods, the production of transcripts may take longer due to the large number of requests received at these times.
Current students should collect their transcripts from the Hub at Paisley, or the Student Link at Ayr, Dumfries or Lanarkshire campus.
In exceptional circumstances, current students can request that their transcript be posted to them.
Transcripts for former students will generally be posted, unless you request to collect the transcript from the Hub or Student Link.
There is no charge for the production of an academic transcript or for postage by second class postage to a UK address or by international standard airmail postage to addresses outwith the UK.
If you require the transcript to be posted via alternative postal services, you may be asked to pay any additional cost incurred.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/about-uws/governance/court:
The University Court is the governing body of the University, established by the University of the West of Scotland Order of Council 2019.
The Court collectively determines the future direction of the University, monitors performance and aims to foster an environment in which the institution’s strategic aims are achieved and students succeed.
In executing its powers Court has a particular duty to observe the highest standards of corporate governance and Court members commit to conducting themselves in accordance with the accepted standards of behaviour in public life.
The membership of Court comprises a majority of lay members with ex-officio and elected staff and student members.
The University of the West of Scotland is a registered Scottish Charity (SC002520) and therefore Court members are also Charitable Trustees.
Any queries in relation to the University Court should be directed to:
Download some useful documentation related to the Court.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/about-uws/governance/honorary-awards:
During graduation ceremonies the University may confer honorary degrees (‘honoris causa’) on persons who:
You can find information on previous Honorary Awards here:
Nominations for honorary awards are considered by the University’s Honorary Awards Committee against the award criteria.
The following honorary awards are available:
The Honorary Degree of Doctor of the University was conferred on 15th November 2023 at Paisley Abbey in recognition of his significant accomplishments as a local businessman and with his charity work.
The Honorary Degree of Doctor of the University was conferred on 16th November 2023 at Paisley Abbey in recognition of her significant work as a campaigner, activist and an ambassador towards stalking specific crimes and support for victims.
The Honorary Degree of Doctor of the University was conferred on 6th July 2023 at Paisley Abbey in recognition of Lewis Pugh’s significant accomplishments as an endurance swimmer and ocean advocate.
The Honorary Degree of Doctor of Letters was conferred on 14th November 2023 at Paisley Abbey in recognition of her significant accomplishments in broadcasting, journalism and as an author.
The Honorary Degree of Doctor of the University was conferred on 17th November 2022 at Paisley Abbey in recognition of Dorothy Byrne’s significant contribution to journalism and television.
The Honorary Degree of Doctor of the University was conferred on 4th July 2023 at Paisley Abbey in recognition of Erin Cuthbert’s significant contribution to women’s football.
The Honorary Degree of Doctor of the University was conferred on 6th July 2022 at Paisley Abbey in recognition of Dr Hatton’s significant accomplishments to lifelong learning, people development, social sciences, nursing and sport.
The Honorary Degree of Doctor of the University was conferred on 16th November 2022 at Paisley Abbey in recognition of Professor Rowan’s significant contribution to science as a globally respected physicist.
The Honorary Degree of Doctor of the University was conferred on 8th July 2022 at Paisley Abbey in recognition of Dr Sally Kuenssberg’s significant contribution and commitment to public service and social justice.
The Honorary Degree of Doctor of the University was conferred on 5th July 2022 at Paisley Abbey in recognition of John McGlynn‘s significant accomplishments as an entrepreneur and investments his home town of Paisley.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/about-uws/academic-schools/school-of-computing-engineering-physical-sciences:
You’ll put your skills to the test in our industry-standard facilities.
You will have opportunities for practical training, project work and placement at home or abroad to give you a practical insight into industry, while enhancing your career prospects.
With over 100 years' experience in training engineers and science professionals, we offer vocationally-relevant courses.
Our engineering courses are designed to take into account and anticipate industry needs.
Their delivery is supported by excellent on-campus facilities and our programmes are strongly aligned to industry, professional bodies and other institutions.
Our computing courses are developed in line with industry needs and we teach tomorrow’s technologies today – giving you a platform to launch or progress your career in this fast-changing industry.
We offer access to high-quality computing and state-of-the-art software systems, as well as tried and tested in-demand technologies such as Oracle, CIW, Adobe, CISCO, SAP and Microsoft.
Our physical sciences courses are designed around industry needs.
UWS graduates can be found in leading positions in companies such as BAE Systems, Fujitsu, Motorola, Nikon, GSK, Sellafield Ltd and Scottish Biomedical.
We are one of the leading players in computing, engineering and the physical and chemical sciences with extensive expertise in research and development.
We have collaborative working relationships with multinational companies such as IBM, NASA, Rolls Royce, BAe Systems, GlaxoSmithKline, Barr Construction, Arup, BP Oils Ltd., CERN and Network Rail.
Almost all of our BEng courses are professionally recognised by professional bodies including:
Many of our computing courses are professionally recognised by the British Computer Society (subject to re-accreditation approval).
In addition, Music Technology is professionally accredited by JAMES (Joint Audio Media Education Support), Computer Games Development is a TIGA (The Independent Game Developers’ Association) accredited course, and Computer Animation Arts is industry recognised by ScreenSkills, the industry-led skills body for the UK’s screen-based industries.
Several of our Physical Sciences programmes are accredited by professional bodies, including the Institute of Physics, the Royal Society of Chemistry and the Chartered Society of Forensic Sciences.
Our BSc degrees in Chemistry, Physics and Mathematics with Education are also recognised by the General Teaching Council for Scotland.
With placement opportunities at home or abroad, our contemporary computing, engineering and physical sciences degrees will prepare you for the real-world.
Developed in partnership with industry, our courses offer practical experience and most are recognised by professional bodies, including the British Computer Society.
We offer a wide range of computing-related degree courses:
With over 100 years’ experience in training engineers, we offer a wide range of career-focused engineering degree courses:
Our degrees in the physical sciences lead graduates to world-class opportunities.
We offer a wide range of physical sciences degree courses:
Our School of Computing, Engineering & Physical Sciences offers a diverse range of career-focused postgraduate courses, which benefit from the School’s strong industrial links.
Build upon your previous computing, engineering or science qualifications with a Masters that will enhance your career prospects and further your knowledge.
We also offer research degree (MRes, MPhil, PhD) opportunities through our applied research focused centres of excellence.
Our postgraduate study options in computing are career-focused and professionally-recognised and will help prepare for a career in one of the fastest changing industries.
Our research-informed computing Masters degree courses include:
Our postgraduate study options in engineering are supported by industry-standard facilities, strong links to industry, professional bodies and informed by world-leading research.
We offer a wide range of career-focused and professionally-recognised engineering Masters degree courses:
Our postgraduate option for physical sciences is:
MSc Environmental Management
Chris Burns, MSc Information Technology graduate, working as a Graduate Software Developer with Aggreko
The School of Computing, Engineering and Physical Sciences is home to leading international centres of research.
We are proud to be committed to solving many of the challenging problems facing society today.
Our research has real impact in changing people’s lives.
Our international experts work on a wide range of research projects, ranging from thin film sensors to tackling the COVID-19 pandemic to 5G and 6G developments, artificial intelligence and machine-learning used by the police saving lives.
Much of our research involves collaboration and partnership with industry and other organisations.
With one of the highest number of Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs) in Scotland, our researchers are committed to creating business solutions.
Our modern laboratories are equipped with advanced equipment which cover testing of materials, analysis of complex chemicals to the developing and production of thin film devices.
Our School offers a wide range of opportunities for international exchange, through our links with international partners.
Previously, our students had the chance to spend time in China, with UWS partner institution, University of South China (USC) in Hengyang, Hunan Province on a two-week field course.
Students had an invaluable opportunity to take part in Chinese lessons and cultural shows, visit construction projects and software companies, and got involved in a range of recreational activities with USC students.
If you have any enquiries relating to our School, please contact us at CEPS@uws.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/about-uws/academic-schools/school-of-education-social-sciences:
Our School is committed to issues around social justice.
We strive to ensure that your studies with us are transformative of both your own journey and the communities in which you live and work.
At the end of your studies with us, you will be work-ready, universal and successful.
Our courses are innovative, practice-focused and research-informed.
We are committed to making a difference locally, nationally and internationally.
We are recognised as one of the very best providers of Education degrees in Scotland and the UK, and have consistently ranked within the top five providers of ‘Education’ as a subject in the UK.
Social Sciences examine the world we live in – from the way we think and behave to the decisions that shape our social and political environment.
The School provides languages courses for students from across all academic schools at UWS, UWS staff and members of the public.
Research and enterprise in the School of Education & Social Sciences aims to make societal impacts (of various kinds) across a range of topic areas.
We have a number of partnerships with organisations from across the world that contribute to our work.
Our staff are here to help provide you with the best possible student experience.
If you have any queries relating to our School, please contact us at ESS@uws.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/about-uws/academic-schools/school-of-health-life-sciences:
Our School of Health & Life Sciences offers a variety of innovative courses with hands-on experience and work in virtual and real-life ward situations.
Nursing and midwifery courses focus on health education and preventative medicine, from degree to Doctorate level, in line with government objectives.
Life sciences courses have been developed in collaboration with industrial and educational partners which positively shape your learning experience, putting you in an enviable position when entering the job market.
Integrating biological and behavioural theory to enhance human health and performance, our Sport degrees are developed alongside professional bodies to guarantee cutting-edge approaches
The School of Health & Life Sciences offers a wide range of innovative and exciting health, bioscience, social care, nursing and midwifery, and sport undergraduate, postgraduate, part time and continuing professional development courses to help you achieve your ambitions.
Accreditation from UNICEF, through its Baby Friendly award, recognises the School's commitment to ensuring students are equipped with the knowledge and skills to advise and support breastfeeding mothers.
Many of our life science courses are accredited or approved by professional bodies such as the Health and Care Professions Council, Institute of Biomedical Science, Royal Environmental Health Institute of Scotland and the Institute of Occupational Safety and Health.
Get the hands-on experience you need.
The research we undertake in Biomedical and Environmental Health provides the underpinning science for our taught degrees.
We give you extensive access to labs and workshop facilities from the start of your programme.
Our sport academics are experts in their field, many with international profiles in science, health and sport, and experience with professional sports teams and organisations.
Our research also covers the full range of sport and exercise sciences helping elite sport performers reach their full potential.
Health, Nursing and Midwifery graduates in work or further study 6 months after graduating
overall student satisfaction amongst UWS postgraduate Health, Nursing & Midwifery students
Rocio Mora-Valverde, BSc Adult Nursing, Dumfries Campus
Our School offers wide opportunities for international exchange, through our links with institutions across Europe.
Our students have also had the opportunity to spend time in China, with UWS partner institution, University of South China (USC) in Hengyang, Hunan Province.
They undertook a  a two-week field course and had an invaluable opportunity to take part in Chinese lessons and cultural shows, visited hospitals and other health organisations, and got involved in a range of recreational activities with USC students.
One of the key areas of research within the School is our pioneering work with Alzheimer Scotland.
We created the UWS Alzheimer Scotland Centre for Policy and Practice .
The Centre provides a high-quality environment for applied research, education and social enterprise.
It works collaboratively with people with dementia, carers, and the scientific and practice communities to advance evidence-informed dementia policy and practice.
The School has also been involved in collaborative work with NHS colleagues on an award-winning sepsis screening app, being used across the UK and overseas.
Across the School our research is coordinated by the following Research Institutes:
If you have any queries relating to our School, please contact us at healthandlifesciences@uws.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/about-uws/uws-commitments/equality-diversity-inclusion:
At UWS, we are committed to advancing and promoting equality and diversity in all our activities.
We aim to establish an inclusive culture, free from discrimination and based upon the values of fairness, dignity, and respect.
We're committed to enhancing wellbeing .
We have the structures, leadership and support in place to embed equality, diversity and inclusion into everything we do.
The Equality Diversity Inclusion and Wellbeing calendar is a useful resource.
It includes a mixture of religious festivals, as well as equality, diversity, inclusion and wellbeing related events and key dates.
The calendar details activities and resources at UWS that have been planned or developed to mark and celebrate each key date.
EDI & Wellbeing calendar
To ensure an inclusive culture at UWS, it's essential that staff have EDI literacy.
UWS has a host of EDI training including:
Employees can book onto training via the internal UWS Training Portal (SharePoint) .
UWS also runs a Women’s Leadership Development Programme (WLDP).
The programme is aimed at women at an early stage in their career and who are interested in progressing their career further.
The programme provides a platform to assist women to develop their leadership knowledge, skills and confidence and create a safe environment where self-confidence and skills are nurtured and developed.
To find out more colleagues can email: Traininganddevelopment@uws.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/about-uws/uws-commitments/european-college-of-sport-science-congress-glasgow-2024:
The 29th annual European College of Sports Science Congress will bring together academics and industry representatives from over 70 countries.
The European College of Sport Science is an international non-profit organisation, founded in Nice (France) in 1995.
Through its promotion of science and research, paying particular attention to the interdisciplinary fields of sports science and sports medicine, celebrated at its annual Congress, ECSS has become one of the most respected platforms for Sports Science in the world.
In its dedication ‘to lead the promotion and application of world-class, multidisciplinary science in sport and exercise’, ECSS has been at the heart of sports science research and development, helping to create productive academic and industry based networks that challenge and push the progression of new and exciting discoveries in the field of sports science.
ECSS Glasgow 2024 will be the 29th annual ECSS Congress, bringing together academics and industry representatives from over 70 countries.
With its theme of ‘Enhancing Health, Performance and Community Sport’ focussing on three strands of Social Sciences and Humanities, Physiology and Sports Medicine, and Biomechanics and Neuromuscular, the ECSS Glasgow Congress will provide an exciting scientific offer including plenaries, invited sessions and the prestigious Young Investigators Award.
You can find out more about ECSS by visiting www.sport-science.org or contact ecss@uws.ac.uk
ECSS Glasgow 2024 First Announcement
Professor Richard Davison , Professor of Exercise Physiology, University of the West of Scotland
Published Biographies
Confirmed Plenary speakers for the European College of Sports Science Congress Glasgow 2024.
Chair
Speakers
The School of Health & Life Sciences is the largest faculty of its kind in Scotland offering a variety of innovative courses in nursing, life sciences and sport.
Our sport and exercise science courses have been developed in collaboration with industrial, local authority and educational partners creating career-focused programmes, These courses are delivered from our cutting edge teaching and research laboratories at our new modern Lanarkshire Campus .
The facilities include teaching labs for physiology, biomechanics, physical therapy and include our state of the art environmental chamber.
In addition we have research labs for physiology, cardiology and biochemistry.
For practical teaching we have our onsite gym, the world class Emirates Arena as well as placement opportunities with a number of local authorities, sports clubs and schools.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/about-uws/uws-commitments/mental-health-and-wellbeing:
It is well documented that one in four people in Scotland will experience mental health difficulties, and many more will know someone experiencing mental health difficulties at some point in their life.
At UWS we take the mental health and wellbeing of our staff and students seriously and wish to signpost those seeking information and support, towards help.
Below you will find links to a number of external websites and apps that offer help and support around mental health and general wellbeing suitable for anyone.
This crisis messenger texting service for U25s offers a trained response within 5 minutes of a text being sent.
https://www.themix.org.uk/get-support/speak-to-our-team/crisis-messenger
In a crisis obtain help by phoning the emergency services by dialling 999, on campus dial 222 for a first aider, contact your GP, or contact NHS 24 by dialling 111.
Problems - Child Abuse Surviors
More about Alcoholics Anonymous
Video Guides for partners, carers and suffers of depression from the World Health Organisation (WHO):
I had a black dog (video)
Living With a Black Dog (VIDEO)
More About Women's aid
More About Karma Nirvana
The Gender Trust
Making Life Better Together (pdf)
Live Happy Podcasts
Meditainment - Guided Meditation and Visualisation
NHS Mental Health Resources
Mental Health Foundation Podcasts
More about Doc Ready
Frantic World and Mindfulness
One-Moment Meditation (Video)
More about the HEADSPACE app
Centre for Mindful Self-Compassion
More on Relationships Scotland
Learn More About Self-Compassion
Learn More About Harmless
Archway Glasgow - Sexual Assault Support Clinic
Rape Crisis Helpline
More about LGBT+ Youth Scotland
More About Pink Therapy
Sleep Resources
Susan Cain on Being an Introvert
Susan Cain's TED Talk on Introverts
The Zero Suicide Alliance (ZSA) aims to empower, educate, and equip individuals and organisations to support suicide awareness and prevention.
We are UK based and hosted by Mersey Care NHS Foundation Trust and funded via Mersey Cares NHS Charity.
More on the Zero Suicide Alliance
NHS Mental Health Services
CCI Self-help Resouces
Northumberland, Tyne and WeAr Self-help NHS Leaflet Library
http://www.ntw.nhs.uk/pic/selfhelp/#

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/about-uws/uws-commitments/sustainability:
Strategy 2025 promises UWS will become a stand-out University committed to tackling the UN Sustainable Development Goals, as well as a leader in climate change and resilience through research and enterprise activity.
The University’s long-standing commitment to sustainability is shown through the commitment to be net zero in operations by 2040.
It's also demonstrated through the signing of the Sustainable Development Goal Accord.
This commits UWS to reporting annually on work towards embedding the UN Sustainable Development Goals through learning and teaching, research, leadership, operations, and engagement activities.
UWS in February 2025 has published its new Sustainability Plan (PDF) for the next five years.
The plan refreshes our commitment to delivering sustainability with UWS becoming a stand-out university committed to tackling the UN Sustainable Development Goals as well as a leader in climate change and resilience through research and enterprise activity.
At the heart of the plan is our 2040 Net Zero commitment and the progress the University has made in reducing emissions and the challenges that lie ahead.
It outlines across seven action areas our achievements and commitments, inclusive of the on-going work to deliver against these and what is further required.
The ‘action areas’ across Sustainable Energy, Carbon Management, Biodiversity & Environmental Adaptation, Travel, Food, Waste, and Procurement represent a comprehensive breadth of focus and resulting action.
The plan is a live, evolving document which will grow in its detail.
We’re working to incorporate a wider range of institutional sustainability objectives which link to the upcoming Strategy 2030 including across Learning & Teaching, Research, Knowledge Transfer and Partnerships.
UWS recognises the criticality of embedding sustainability into our practices and our responsibility to minimise our impact on the environment.
UWS is committed to reducing our emissions and becoming net zero by 2040, reducing the impact that delivering higher education has on our community.
UWS has committed to placing the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) at the heart of our Strategy 2025.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/about-uws/uws-commitments/uws-mediation-service:
Mediation is an informal way of dealing with disputes.
It involves an independent third party, a mediator, supporting the individuals in dispute to have a facilitated discussion.
The purpose of mediation is to resolve conflict and to improve relationships.
It is hoped that through the mediation process, individuals will be able to reach agreement on a way forward.
The process is completely voluntary and will only take place if both individuals wish to participate.
The UWS Mediation Service was launched in September 2019 to offer mediation to all UWS students and members of staff.
Some of the benefits of mediation include:
Our mediators are trained members of UWS staff who support people to discuss issues or problems.
Find out more by taking a look at our ‘Mediator Profiles.’
A mediator:
Emma is a Co-Founder of the UWS Mediation Service and also leads the University’s Legal Services Team.
She joined UWS in 2015 and is based on the Paisley campus.
Emma is responsible for overseeing the effective running of the Mediation Service and also personally conducts both staff and students mediations.
Kayleigh is a Co-Founder of the UWS Mediation Service and a Solicitor in the Legal Services Team, based on the UWS Paisley campus.
Kayleigh is responsible for the day-to-day running of the Mediation Service and also mediates both staff and students cases.
In addition to being a mediator, trained to facilitate both staff and student cases, Alison is also the University’s Compliance Manager.
In this role she ensures that UWS meets the requirements set by the UK Visas and Immigration Directorate to hold and maintain our Tier 2 and Tier 4 sponsorship licences.
Alison is based on the Paisley campus.
Nick is a Lecturer within the School of Health and Life Sciences, based at the Paisley campus, where he teaches on the Undergraduate Adult Nursing programme.
He is a Registered Nurse and qualified Counsellor with extensive clinical experience in critical care and addiction settings.
Nick’s research interests focus on addiction and spirituality.
He is available to mediate with staff and students.
Angela is a Senior Lecturer in the School of Health and Life Sciences and is available to mediate staff and student cases.
Cathy is part the Student Services team, providing Student Support at the Dumfries campus and specialising in Funding.
She joined the Mediation Service in 2023 and mediates both staff and student cases.
Martin is a lecturer in Adult Nursing in the School of Health and Life Sciences.
He has been a lecturer in UWS since 2018 and joined the mediation service in 2023.
Jennifer is a senior lecturer in the Division of Education.
She leads the PGDE Primary Education programme.
Melody Terras is a Senior Lecturer in Psychology and BSc Psychology Programme Leader responsible for the running of the Psychology degree programme, quality assurance and Chairs the Staff-Student Liaison group.
Melody teaches on core psychology modules e.g.
Cognitive Psychology and also specialist electives such as Psychology and Education.
Melody is trained to mediate staff and students cases.
Alison is based in Education and Social Sciences.
She joined UWS in June 2002 and mediates staff and student cases.
Dean is a lecturer and programme leader on the BA and Graduate Diploma in Childhood Practice programmes at the university.
He is also a registered mediator with Scottish Mediation and has experience in mediating and resolving workplace issues and relationship challenges.
Astrid is the Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Consultant at UWS and joined the Mediation Service in 2023.
She is trained to facilitate both staff and student cases and is based on the Paisley campus.
Nicola is Organisational Development Consultant at UWS and joined the Mediation Service in 2023.
She is trained to facilitate both staff and student cases and is based on the Lanarkshire and Paisley campuses.
Mediation can be helpful if you want to resolve a dispute informally and to keep the matter confidential.
It may be appropriate if:
You can request mediation instead of a formal process (e.g.
a grievance or complaint), before initiating a formal process or after a formal process has concluded to help rebuild relationships.
You can request mediation by completing the Mediation Request Form and emailing it to mediation@uws.ac.uk .
If you need a paper version of this form, please give us a call on 0141 848 3699.
We would encourage colleagues to promote the mediation service and to identify situations where mediation could be beneficial.
Individuals should be encouraged to get in touch with the Mediation Service directly wherever possible.
However, referrals are also welcome through P&OD, SAUWS, Student Administration or the recognised trade unions of the University.
Before making a referral, please discuss this with the individuals and make sure that they are happy for you to do so.
The UWS Mediation Service will review all requests and referrals to ensure that the issue is suitable for mediation.
Where we believe that another route would be more appropriate, we will discuss the reasons for this with you and signpost you accordingly.
To find out more about mediation at UWS, please take a look at our ‘UWS Mediation Service – Guide for Students’ or ‘UWS Mediation Service – Guide for Staff.’ You can also talk to a member of the Service by emailing Mediation@uws.ac.uk or calling 0141 848 3699.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/about-uws/compliance/information-records-management:
In this section we set out our adhering and compliance to data protection regulation and also details on how to report concerns or make complaints to UWS.
How to request access to view the personal data that’s held by UWS.
Information on the management of records at UWS.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/about-uws/compliance/financial-statements-regulations:
This section covers information on the university’s strategy and financial management.
UWS’s annual financial statements can be viewed below.
Please note that information that may substantially prejudice the commercial interests of any person, personal information, or information that would disrupt the effective conduct of public affairs is excluded from publication.
Below you find a link to the most recent set of financial statements and financial regulations for UWS:
UWS Integrated Report And Financial Statements 2024
UWS Financial Regulations
The University recognises its responsibility to operate in an ethical manner and to take account of social, environmental and ethical considerations in all activities including financial investment.
UWS Ethical Investment Statement (pdf)
This section covers information on the university’s strategy and financial management and covering University of Paisley (UoP), Bell College of Technology (Bell) and University of the West of Scotland from 2003 - 2020:
UWS Integrated Report & Financial Statements - 2023 (pdf)
UWS Financial Statements 2022 (pdf)
UWS Financial Statements 2021 (pdf)
UWS Financial Statements 2020 (pdf)
UWS Financial Statements 2019 (pdf)
UWS Financial Statements 2018 (pdf)
UWS Financial Statements 2017 (pdf)
UWS Financial Statements 2016 (pdf)
UWS Financial Statements 2015 (pdf)
UWS Financial Statements 2014 (pdf)
UWS Financial Statements 2013 (pdf)
UWS Financial Statements 2012 (pdf)
UWS Financial Statements 2011 (pdf)
UWS Financial Statements 2010 (pdf)
UWS Financial Statements 2009 (pdf)
UWS Financial Statements 2008 (pdf)
Bell Financial Statements 2007 (pdf)
UoP Financial Statements 2007 (pdf)
UoP Financial Statements 2006 (pdf)
UoP Financial Statements 2005 (pdf)
UoP Financial Statements 2004 (pdf)
UoP Financial Statements 2003 (pdf)

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/about-uws/compliance/tendering-supplying-to-uws:
Procurement works together with those who purchase on behalf of the schools and support departments to help them achieve best value for money for all goods and services - in terms of quality, cost, sustainability (economic, social and environmental benefits) and customer satisfaction.
Specific information including UWS procurement contact details can be found on our Buyer Profile
The Supplier Journey explains the process of awarding a public sector contract
The University of the West of Scotland maintains a register of contracts in line with the Procurement Reform (Scotland) Act 2014.
This register can be accessed via the University of the West of Scotland Contract Register.
As a client of APUC, the University of the West of Scotland (UWS) is committed to carrying out procurement activities in an environmentally, socially, ethically and economically responsible manner and to entering into agreements and contracts with suppliers that share and adhere to its vision.
To demonstrate this commitment, current and potential suppliers are asked to acknowledge their compliance with the principles of the UWS Supply Chain Code of Conduct, with respect to their organisation and their supply chain.
The standards in this code are derived from the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals amongst other global conventions.
This include not using forced, involuntary or underage labour and that workers environment and terms do not discriminate against them in any way.
Where a contract is for a service the Procurement Department would include technical questions around Fair Work First principles as part of the evaluation criteria where relevant as part of the tendering process.
This would be decided by reviewing the type of service being procured.
Where relevant,  contractors may also be asked to sign the Police Scotland Declaration of non-involvement in Human Trafficking and Labour Exploitation where there is a high risk of modern slavery (taxi services, cleaning, construction etc).
An overview of public sector procurement in Scotland, including the latest procurement news can be found at the Scottish Government procurement website.
The Freedom of Information (Scotland) Act 2002 came into effect on 1st January 2005 and introduced new rights to access information held by public authorities and a requirement upon public authorities to adopt a more proactive approach towards publishing information.
Detailed information on how to exercise your rights under the Act is available from the Scottish Information Commissioner .
Please see further information under FOI and Records Management section of the UWS website.
UWS Annual Procurement Report - 2024 (pdf)
UWS Annual Procurement Report - 2023 (pdf)
UWS Annual Procurement Report 2022 (pdf)
UWS Annual Procurement Report - 2019 (pdf)
UWS Annual Procurement Report - 2018 (pdf)
UWS Sustainable Supply Chain Code of Conduct (pdf)
UWS Terms & Conditions for the Supply of Goods - 14th May 2018
UWS Terms & Conditions for the Provision of Services - 14th May 2018
UWS Terms & Conditions for the Provision of Consultancy Services - 14th May 2018
UWS Procurement Plan 2021-2025 (pdf)
UWS Modern Slavery Statement

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/about-uws/compliance/information-records-management/freedom-of-information:
The Freedom of Information (Scotland) Act 2002 provides important rights of access to information held by Scottish public authorities, including UWS.
The Environmental Information (Scotland) Regulations 2004 provide access to environmental information which is held by Scottish public authorities.
The Act gives a general statutory right of access to all types of recorded information, in all formats and of any age, held by Scottish public authorities.
All Scottish higher education institutions are defined as public authorities under the Act.
The Act also applies to companies that we own, either wholly or in partnership with other public authorities.
You can find out more about FOI on the Scottish Information Commissioner's website .
Under the Act we must adopt and maintain publication schemes.
These set out the classes of information that we commit to publish routinely, and explain how you can access this information.
Please email requests for information to foi@uws.ac.uk , or post to Legal Services, University of the West of Scotland, Paisley Campus, Paisley PA1 2BE.
If you would like advice to identify the information you want, or other help in making a request, you can contact us via foi@uws.ac.uk
If you request information from us we must provide it, or a valid reason for not doing so, within 20 working days.
When you make your request for information, you should tell us what method you would prefer the information to be provided.
If you do not include this information within your request and your request is received via email we will respond to that email address.
Please therefore let us know if you would prefer the response to be posted to you (please provide a postal address).
We will make every effort to meet your needs, by arranging for information to be available in a particular format e.g.
large print or by making other arrangements for you to obtain information in a way which is acceptable to you.
We will not make any additional charge for this service.
Some information is exempt from disclosure – for instance, if its release would seriously prejudice the commercial interests of any person or organisation, or breach the Data Protection Act 2018 .
To make a complaint about the publication scheme or the University's response to a request for information, please contact us by email at Legal Services or by post at Legal Services, University of the West of Scotland, Paisley Campus, Paisley PA1 2BE.
The Freedom of Information (Scotland) Act 2002 obliges every public authority in Scotland to produce a publication scheme which explains what information it routinely puts into the public domain and how to access that information.
Model Publication Scheme: Guide for Scottish Public Authorities (pdf)
University of West of Scotland has adopted the Model Publication Scheme: Guide for Scottish Public Authorities (updated March 2021) produced by the Office of the Scottish Information Commissioner.
UWS Guide to Information available through the Model Publication Scheme (PDF)
The University has made a commitment to publish the information which it holds falling within the classes of information in the scheme.
The Guide to Information linked above describes the information which is published in accordance with the scheme.
If you have any problems accessing information linked in the Guide or would like to suggest other information that could also be included, please let us know by emailing foi@uws.ac.uk .
We are happy to consider any suggestions.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/about-uws/working-at-uws/professional-support-services:
UWS is one of Scotland’s largest and most dynamic modern universities.
Our reach across the country, together with our London Campus, means that UWS is a significant force in global knowledge creation, innovation, and a leading provider of undergraduate, postgraduate and research degree education.
UWS welcomes and employs people from a diverse range of backgrounds who are all ambassadors for our University.
We are united by the shared ethos that together we make a great community, creating a positive impact in what we do.
You will join a dedicated team who strive to continuously inspire our students and wider University community.
We offer our staff a caring and supportive environment, across five campuses, and a competitive benefits package.
Discover more about our Professional Support Services:
Advancement is responsible for keeping in contact with all our graduates.
They help explore and identify opportunities through philanthropic fundraising to support UWS priority projects.
The Advancement team is responsible for managing the donor engagement process from individuals, corporations, trusts and foundations, and other sources.
Business Innovation provides a proactive gateway for the commercial activities of the University's academic community.
They focus on the development of relationships with industry, business and third sectors.
The Campus Services team develops new buildings and facilities, and maintains existing property.
It aims to provide a safe, high-quality University environment in a sustainable way.
The Finance Department devises a strategy to deliver the resources for UWS to thrive.
It also supports the University’s academic, research and administrative community with sound financial advice, timely information with a range of support services including:
This team manages, develops and supports IT systems across the University.
The international Centre at UWS works to extend the University's global reach and explore new international opportunities.
The goal of the Learning Transformation team is to empower educators, staff and students with the guidance and support to effectively work and learn together.
Learning Transformation encompasses an integrated approach to developing sustainable models of teaching practice, where the classroom is a shared environment, and teaching and learning a shared endeavour.
Library Services offer learning resources both electronic and physical, to support learning, teaching and research across five campuses.
This is supported by the provision of information literacy support in person and online as well as a range of study spaces for quiet or group study.
The Marketing, Communications & Student Recruitment department promotes the University and its Academic Schools.
They also lead on student recruitment, community engagement, internal communications and brand development.
Attracting, engaging, developing and supporting the 1,500+ people who work at UWS is the mission of the People and Wellbeing team.
Printing Services produces everything from University stationery to full colour leaflets, posters and personalised products.
It also sells textbooks and past papers, and offers copying and binding services to staff, students and the public.
The Procurement team works with those who purchase on behalf of the schools and support departments.
It helps them achieve best value for money for all goods and services.
It takes into account quality, cost, customer satisfaction and sustainability (including economic, social and environmental benefits).
Research Services provides professional research support to a diverse community of researchers across the University.
Staff in Student Administration support students throughout their studies, from induction and enrolment to final qualification and beyond.
Level 1, Robertson Trust Library & Learning Centre Paisley PA1 2BE
Our Student Services team is committed to ensuring that every student gets the most out of their university experience, regardless of their personal circumstances or background.
Find out more about Student Support & Wellbeing
The University Secretary’s Office includes the Court & Senate Office.
It manages the University’s corporate and academic governance and constitutional and ceremonial matters for the University, including liaison with the Chancellor.
The University Secretary's Office includes the Legal Services Department.
It provides legal advice to colleagues in support of our strategic objectives and raises awareness of legal issues relevant to the University.
The Risk & Resilience Department is also located in the Secretary’s office.
It leads the University’s arrangements for risk management, insurance and business continuity, as well as the response to major incidents.
For more information about any of our Professional Support Services contact: jobs@uws.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/about-uws/uws-commitments/supporting-care-experienced-student-carers-and-estranged-students:
We understand that being a carer, a care-experienced student or an estranged student can have a big impact on your life and studies.
That's why we have a dedicated team to support you as you plan to make the transition to university study and get the most out of your time whilst you are a student here at UWS.
To help applicants make the transition to university and our students to get the most out of your time during your studies we provide a wide range of support and these include:
UWS is a proud Corporate Parent, and we have a strong tradition of working with care experienced applicants and students.
UWS work in partnership with Who Cares?
Scotland to provide annual Corporate Parenting Training to staff at all levels within the university.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/university-life/student-support-wellbeing/supporting-care-experienced-student-carers-and-estranged-students/uws-cares-here-for-you:
At UWS we have a dedicated WeCare Team in place to support Care Experienced Students, Student Carers and Estranged Students from pre-application through to graduation.
The WeCare Team also acts as a key point of contact for students who are Asylum Seekers and Refugees and Military Veterans and their families.
Let us know if you are Care-Experienced , Estranged from your family , or a Student Carer :
Declaring this information will allow the WeCare Team to contact you directly about the support available.
If you are unsure if you are a Care-Experienced Student, Student Carer, or an Estranged Student please find the definitions below:
The Scottish Funding Council defines a care-experienced student as
The Stand Alone Charity who worked to support estranged students, defined estranged students as:
Carers Trust Scotland defines a student carer as:
UWS, as Scotland’s leading university for widening access, firmly believes that education should be available to all regardless of background.
The following questions and answers relate to care-experienced, student carers or estranged students.
You can become a member of the UWS Cares Working Group.
This Working Group is a staff/student group that meets twice a year to discuss support and activity at UWS for care experienced students, student carers and estranged students.
For more information please email WeCare@uws.ac.uk
Join the UWS Union Peer Support Group for Care Experienced students and Estranged students.
This is a student led support group offered by the UWS student union.
UWS Union Peer Support Group
Students wishing to obtain support to purchase a laptop for their studies should apply for the UWS Discretionary Fund.
You can view the different options to apply for the funding via the link below.
Discretionary and childcare funds
Students that require immediate access to a device can use the LapSafe lockers located on all UWS campuses.
These can be found on your local campus library and contain laptops that can be loaned out for the day.
These devices can only be used whilst on campus.
SAAS Care-Experienced Bursary (Not applicable for those in receipt of the Nursing Bursary).
Please visit the SAAS website which provides further information on support for care-experienced students and how to apply.
If you’re Care-Experienced and need help with accommodation costs during the summer break, you may be eligible to apply for the SAAS Care-Experienced Summer Accommodation Grant .
SAAS Estranged Students Bursary (ESB) and student loan.
If you’re estranged from your parents/legal guardians, you could be entitled to the undergraduate funding package.
Please visit the SAAS website which provides further information on support for Estranged Students and how to apply.
If you are a student carer, you may be eligible to receive the Carer Support Payment from Social Security Scotland.
You should visit the Carer Support Payment guide for more information on this grant.
Campus tour arrangements can be made with a member of the WeCare Team - email WeCare@uws.ac.uk
If you are a Care Experienced or Estranged Student, you have priority access to UWS student accommodation, 365 days of the year.
You can find information on accommodation options and advice on tenancy types, checks and paperwork here.
Please email WeCare@uws.ac.uk for more information.
Yes:
For further information, please visit the following pages:

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/money-fees-funding/undergraduate-fees-funding/funding-for-scottish-students:
If you are a part-time student, scroll down to the section below.
As PGDE students are funded through the undergraduate funding system, further information can be found in the sections below.
Funding for students from Scotland is administered by an agency of the Scottish Government known as SAAS (Student Awards Agency Scotland).
SAAS operate an online application process and the SAAS website has a lot of really useful information about how they work out your entitlement and how you apply for it.
Applications typically open in April and we recommend applying early to ensure your funding is ready for you starting your course, and you have time to resolve any unexpected issues that may arise.
The package of student funding that you are eligible for is the Scottish Governments contribution to your study and living costs each academic year.
It is up to you to you to manage your budget effectively to meet your outgoings.
We have a range of money advice, as well as additional funding to help top up the student funding receive you receive from SAAS.
Scroll to the bottom of this webpage for further details.
Student funding packages are made up of support for tuition fees and support for living costs in the form of a bursary and/or a student loan.
You must apply to SAAS every year for funding, even if you just want tuition fee support.
Support for living costs is income assessed, which means your household income is used to work out what you get.
Students are usually only eligible for claim support from SAAS once at each level of undergraduate studies, with an extra year of funding available in case of emergencies or a change of plans.
You can find out more about this in the section below, titled ‘Repeating a period of study’.
While it is true that Scottish students do not pay tuition fees, it's not true that tuition is free.
It currently costs £1,820 per year for Scottish students to study a degree in Scotland.
The cost of tuition for eligible Scottish students is met by SAAS each year, and it is your responsibility to meet the cost of tuition if you are not eligible for this from SAAS.
This support is not income assessed, which means your household income will not impact eligibility.
There are 2 main types of bursary – Young Student Bursary and Independent Student Bursary.
The one you can apply for depends on your age and circumstances.
Generally, students under 25 claim the Young Student Bursary and are income assessed using their parents’ income.
Those over 25, married, or with children, will claim the Independent Student Bursary and are income assessed using their own income and that of any spouse or partner.
This is the part of your student package that you don’t have to repay.
Find out more on the SAAS website.
There are also some additional living cost grants available to certain types students, such as lone parents.
Like the bursary, these would also be a part of your student package that you don’t have to repay.
You can find out more on the SAAS website.
Student loans are available on top of bursaries and are the largest element of your student support package.
Similarly to the Bursary, this element is income assessed, so how much you can get depends on your circumstances.
As a Scottish student, you apply to SAAS who assess how much of a student loan you are entitled to.
SAAS then instruct the Student Loan Company (SLC) to pay this to you, but you do not apply directly to SLC.
Find out more on the SAAS website .
You do not have to take out the student loan or can elect to take out only a proportion of what you are offered.
The student loan is repayable and does accrue interest, but it is much cheaper than other types of finance such as bank loans, overdrafts or credit cards.
Find out more about how the Student Loan works .
If you have been looked after by a Local Authority in the UK, you may be eligible to receive the Care Experienced Students Bursary instead of the bursary and loan support detailed above.
The Care Experienced Students Bursary is worth £9,000 and is not income assessed, so the level of your household income does not impact this.
If you are eligible for the Care Experienced Students Bursary, you can also claim £2,400 in the form of a special support loan.
You apply for this through SAAS, alongside applying for your tuition fee support and care experienced bursary.
If you want to understand more about how the Student Loan works, click on the link in the section above.
Find out more about the Care Experienced package of support on the SAAS website.
If you are under 25 but no longer have any contact with your parents or legal guardian due to a permanent breakdown in your relationship, you can report this to SAAS and be considered as an estranged student.
This means they will not use your parents or legal guardian income to income assess you for support.
You would instead be eligible for the Estranged Student Bursary of £1,000, plus a student loan of £10,400.
Find out more about the Estranged Student package of support on the SAAS website .
As long as you are not on a one-year course, or in the final year of your studies, you must choose if you want your package of living cost support (bursary and loan) paid during term-time only, or if you want to spread this over the full year.
We must stress that the total amount of support will not change, you simply decide how this is divided up.
It’s important to think about the full year ahead when making your decision as you cannot change your mind part-way through a year.
Inevitably there will be pros and cons to each option and your individual circumstances will impact which option is best for you.
If you are a student who is eligible to apply for Universal Credits during your studies, such as a lone parent, you will need to consider how your decision in relation to your student funding payments impacts your Universal Credits.
Visit our Benefits webpage for details, including some example figures that should help you understand how to choose the best payment option for your student funding, as well as better understand the benefit amount you might be eligible for.
Despite it being a postgraduate level course, PGDE students continue to be funded through the undergraduate funding system.
If you have received SAAS funding previously to undertake an undergraduate course, you will generally still be able to receive the full package of funding to undertake the PGDE.
However, if you have already received funding to undertake a postgraduate course, you may not be eligible for further funds.
If you are unsure about your eligibility for funding as a result of previous study, please contact Student Awards Agency Scotland (SAAS) directly for clarity.
Depending on the teaching subject area, you may be eligible for a concession, which opens the doors to the full package of SAAS funding.
To find out more about the funding you may be entitled to, and how to apply, read the section above titled Student Awards Agency Scotland.
The Teaching Bursary Scheme is open to individuals wishing to undertake a one-year PGDE ITE course in Scotland that leads to the award of registered teacher status in Scotland's hardest-to-fill teaching subjects.
Keep an eye on the government website for details .
A £20,000 bursary is available from the Scottish Government to career-changers undertaking a one-year Postgraduate Diploma in Education (PGDE) Initial Teacher Education (ITE) programme in Scotland in STEM subjects and Modern Languages.
Subjects available at UWS:
If you are studying a Graduate Apprenticeship in Scotland, you must apply to Student Awards Agency Scotland (SAAS) for Tuition Fee support.
SAAS will pay this to the University on your behalf.
You do not have to repay this tuition fee support, but you must remember to apply for this in each year of study.
If you leave your course early you may no longer be eligible for this tuition fee support.
In the event that a tuition fee charge still applies, you will then be responsible for meeting this cost yourself.
Previous funding received for a higher education course usually impacts the funding you are eligible for, but you may still get funding to study a Graduate Apprenticeship.
If you are unsure, contact SAAS for clarity.
Find out more about Graduate Apprenticeships from the SAAS website , including full eligibility details, and guidance on how to apply.
*Students who started a Graduate Apprenticeship before the 2021/22 academic session do not need to apply to SAAS for funding.
Graduate Apprentice students are not eligible for any living cost support from SAAS.
This is due to the nature of the course requiring students to be in paid employment throughout.
You may wish to discuss study expenses with your employer.
While not obligated to do so, some employers may offer some financial support with the costs of books, course materials, etc.
As you will understand from reading the information above, SAAS normally only provide support once at each level of study, with an extra year of funding available in case of emergencies or circumstances that result in you repeating the same level of study.
In this section we will explain more about the funding available when you need to repeat a period of study.
If things have not gone to plan, you may be able to claim an additional year of funding, known as the +1.
You may have started a course previously and found it wasn't for you, or may have not completed a year of study that you now need to come back and repeat.
Whatever the reason, there is a +1 rule that would allow you to receive the full package of student support, as long as you hadn’t progressed beyond this level, or used this extra funding previously.
For example, a student cannot complete Year 3 of their degree due to a period of ill health.
They come back the next year to do Year 3 again.
Because this is repeating the same level of study, the package of student funding for their second Year 3 is considered their +1.
The +1 cannot be used to go back to lower levels of study, so in the example above, the student would not be able to access the +1 package of student funding if they, for some reason, decided to move back to Year 2.
It’s really important not to rely on this funding without doing your research, so please contact SAAS directly if you need any help identifying whether your +1 remains available to you.
If you have already used your +1, you may find that you have a gap in student funding until you are able to move on to the next year of your course.
You will need to carefully consider how you will meet the cost of tuition and your living costs, and can find out more about your funding options in our repeat year funding guidance (PDF) .
If you are making the transition from an HNC or HND at college, the level at which you enter the university may have an impact on your funding.
In basic terms, an HNC is equivalent to Year 1 of a degree programme while an HND is equivalent to Year 2.
While SAAS normally would not fund study at the same level twice, i.e.
an HNC and then Year 1 of a degree, there are special rules in place for students making this transition.
This would allow you to receive the full package of student support, as long as you hadn’t progressed beyond this level, or used this extra funding previously.
It’s really important not to rely on this funding without doing your research, so please contact SAAS directly if you need any help identifying whether student funding remains available to you.
If you are someone who meets the SAAS definition of Care Experience, the package of support available to you uniquely offers additional flexibility and generally has 2 additional years of funding eligibility, rather than the normal +1.
If you have already used your additional years of support, you may find that you have a gap in student funding until you are able to move on to the next year of your course and it will be your responsibility to consider how you will meet both the cost of tuition and support your living costs during this time.
Applications tend to open in March, prior to your course start date, and remain open until the end of November, but it is always best to apply early.
Find out more on the Carnegie Trust website
There are lots of alternative sources of funding, like charities and trusts, that can help finance your studies.
These can include grants that can pay tuition fees, living cost support and funding for research expenses so this can be a good avenue to explore whether you have been unable to get funding through the above sources, or are simply looking to top this up.
When searching for additional financial support, it is important to understand that this can take up a lot of time.
While there is no guarantee that you will find a source of funds for you, you definitely won’t find anything if you don’t try.
This type of funding can vary from small amounts, such as £200, to larger amounts that might cover your full tuition fee for a year.
Most students who achieve success with these types of funds do so because they continually research and apply to everything they can.
Numerous grants of £200 can really add up.
It’s also important to remember that most of these funds are competitive, similar to applying for a job.
Many people might apply, but there may be only one award available.
As such, it is important that you spend time on any application.
Carefully follow any guidance notes and make sure your application will stand out in a crowd.
The best place to start exploring this avenue is through our Alternative Trusts and Scholarships webpage .
Click on the link and you will find a lot of resources to help get you started.
Just remember, we can’t possibly include every fund on our webpage, so don’t limit yourself to this page alone.
It's important to remember that you are responsible for meeting the cost of tuition throughout your studies.
If for any reason this is not being paid on your behalf by SAAS, you will be classed as a self-funded student and will be expected to meet this cost yourself.
If you are self-funding, we encourage you to think of the tuition fees as another expense you are committing to and think carefully about how affordable this is for you for the duration of your studies.
Planning ahead is key, as the more time you give yourself to save money, the better.
Plan ahead by visiting our Budgeting and Planning web pages .
In most cases, you will be able to spread the cost over the academic year (usually up until April), but that is still an additional monthly expense that you should plan and budget for.
You will also be required to pay a deposit at the point you enrol, and enrolment will not be completed until this is done.
It’s also important to remember that the University extends you a courtesy by allowing you to pay in instalments.
If you do not make payments as planned, we may no longer be able to extend this courtesy.
Check out Student the Finance FAQs for more information .
UWS offer a range of courses that are designed for individuals to undertake as part of their professional development, and with the support of an employer, such as the NHS.
Where a course requires a student to work in a relevant role as part of their studies, and therefore continue to be employed throughout studies, students are generally not eligible for student funding .
This is because your salary will be your form of income.
However, the rules can be complex, so it is always best to ask for advice if you are unsure.
In some cases, an employer may meet the cost of tuition.
Where this is a Graduate Apprenticeship, please see the specific section above.
If you are a member of the Armed Forces, you may be eligible to apply for financial support for studies through the MODs Enhanced Learning Credits Scheme.
Many of the courses available at UWS are registered as part of this scheme, which could provide some financial support towards the cost of tuition, should you not be eligible for SAAS or Carnegie Trusts, who in most cases can cover the full amount.
Find our more on the Enhanced Learning Credits website
Student Awards Agency Scotland (SAAS) administer a Part-Time Fee Grant, which is a great scheme to help meet the tuition costs of part time study.
To qualify for this support, you must meet the SAAS residency conditions, have an individual income of £25,000 a year or less, including bonuses and overtime, and be undertaking between 30 and 119 credits in each year of study.
The level of funding you can get will depend on the number of credits you do and is awarded on a pro-rata basis, using the full-time tuition fee rate as a base.
Full-time students will study 120 credits per year with tuition fees costing £1,820.
If you were to study 60 credits, which is half the amount of a full-time student, you would receive half of £1,820, so £910.
The SAAS website has more information about the Part Time Fee Grant.
You can also apply online for this grant, and can create and access your online SAAS account via this website.
Many students undertake part-time studies as part of their professional development.
It would certainly depend on the type of work you do and company you work for, but some organisations and businesses will have funding to support staff development.
Talk to your employer about the support they may be able to provide, especially where you may not be eligible for support from SAAS.
Part-time study can be incredibly flexible, which makes it an ideal route for students who are self-funding.
By approaching a course in a bite sized way, you could study what you were able to afford.
When you are self-funding, we encourage you to think of the tuition fees as another expense you are committing to.
Think carefully about how affordable this is for you for the duration of your studies.
In most cases, you will be able to spread the cost over the academic year (usually up until April).
However, that's still an additional monthly expense that you should plan and budget for.
You will also be required to pay a deposit at the point you enrol (equivalent to the cost of one module).
Enrolment will not be completed until this is done.
Many of the courses available at UWS are registered as part of this scheme, which could provide some financial support towards the cost of tuition, should you not be eligible for SAAS, who in most cases can cover the full amount.
This magazine will take you through student funding that you may be entitled to, but will also help you budget and plan ahead, and better understand how student funding works.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/money-fees-funding/undergraduate-fees-funding/funding-for-english-welsh-northern-irish-students:
English, Welsh and Northern Irish students studying at undergraduate level at UWS are entitled to various funds and support towards tuition fees and living costs.
Statutory funding for students from England is administered by Student Finance England .
Funding packages awarded by Student Finance England provide support for tuition fees and living costs in the form of tuition fee loans and maintenance loans.
You can apply for a Tuition Fee Loan of up to £9,535* which is paid directly to the University on your behalf.
You can apply for a Maintenance Loan for living costs, but the value that you are entitled to will vary depending on where you live, where you study and your household income.
The UK Government website will provide details so you can see the level of support you might expect to receive.
*If your course involves a foundation year, the tuition fee loan available to you for that foundation year may be up to £5,760.
You may also be entitled to additional support such as the childcare grant and the parents' learning allowance, and may also be able to claim additional support should you study abroad as part of your course.
If you’re under 25 and have no contact with your parents, you might be able to apply as an ‘estranged student’, which means your parents income is not considered when assessing the level of support you are eligible for.
Further information on the types of funding available to English students, as well as eligibility and application procedures can be found on the UK Government website .
Remember that most of your support will be in the form of loans, which need to be paid back.
Find out how the student loan works, including any interest rates and repayment terms, by visiting our Debt & Borrowing Money web page .
You’ll usually only get student finance if you’re doing your first higher education qualification - even if your previous course was self-funded.
If you stopped your course within the first year, you’ll get funding for the same course or a new course when you go back.
You might also get funding if you:
If you stopped your studies for a personal reason (for example, you were ill or pregnant) you might get funding for all of your course - you should apply online with supporting evidence.
It’s really important not to rely on this funding without doing your research.
Please contact Student Finance England directly if you need any help identifying whether any funding remains available to you.
If you have already used your entitlement to funding (whether tuition fees, maintenance or both), you may find that you have a gap in student funding until you are able to move on to the next year of your course.
Statutory funding for students from Northern Ireland is administered by Student Finance NI .
Funding packages awarded by Student Finance NI provide support for tuition fees and living costs in the form of tuition fee loans and maintenance grants and loans.
You can apply for a Tuition Fee Loan of up to £9,535 which is paid directly to the University on your behalf.
You can also apply for a Maintenance Grant if you are from a low-income household, and a Maintenance Loan on top of that.
The value of what you are entitled to will vary depending on where you live, where you study and your household income.
The Student Finance NI website has full details of the support available.
Further information on the types of funding available to Northern Irish students, as well as eligibility and application procedures can be found on the Student Finance NI website.
If you have studied previously on a higher education course, this will affect your entitlement to support.
As a general rule, Tuition Fee Loans and means-tested Maintenance Grants are available for the full length of your course, plus one extra year if needed, for example, if you change your course, or if you leave your course but decide to start again.
You may be able to get an extra year of tuition fee or grant support if you need to repeat a year due to compelling personal reasons, such as illness.
It’s really important not to rely on this funding without doing your research, so please contact your local Student Finance Northern Ireland (SFNI) Office directly if you need any help identifying whether any funding remains available to you.
Statutory funding for students from Wales is administered by Student Finance Wales .
Funding packages awarded by Student Finance Wales provide support for tuition fees and living costs in the form of tuition fee loans and a mixture of maintenance grants and loans.
You can apply for a Maintenance Grant and Loan, but the value that you are entitled to, and the proportion of this that is in the form of a grant, will vary depending on where you live, where you study and your household income.
The Student Finance Wales website has full details of the support available.
You may also be entitled to additional support such as the childcare grant and the parents' learning allowance.
Find out how the student loan works, including any interest rates and repayment terms, by visiting our Debt & Borrowing Money web page.
As a general rule, student funding is only available for the full length of your course, plus one extra year if needed, for example, if you change your course, or if you leave your course but decide to start again.
It’s really important not to rely on this funding without doing your research, so please contact Student Finance Wales directly if you need any help identifying whether any funding remains available to you.
If you want to undertake a level of study that you have attempted before but did not achieve, your potential funding may be affected.
You may have started a course previously and found it wasn't for you or perhaps you didn’t complete a year of study which you now need to re-attempt before you can progress with your course.
SFE, SFW & SFNI will allow you one additional year of the full funding package to enable you to re-attempt a level of study, so long as you haven’t previously progressed beyond this level or used this extra funding in the past.
Once you have made use of this additional year, you cannot do so again.
It may be that you were unable to achieve this level previously due to exceptional circumstances e.g.
a bereavement or serious medical condition.
This is referred to this as having “Compelling Personal Reasons” for needing to repeat a year of study.
In that case, you can submit evidence of your circumstances to your funding provider and be considered for the full funding package to re-attempt this level.
This is an alternative to the additional year of funding offered as standard, which would then remain available to you for future use.
If you do not have Compelling Personal Reasons and have previously used your standard additional year of funding, then you will not be able to access the Tuition Fee Loan but may still be able to receive a Maintenance Grant/Loan and any supplementary grants for which you are otherwise eligible.
Please note that eligibility varies depending on your year of entry into higher education, not just your current course.
There are also slight variations across the 3 funding bodies.
It’s really important not to rely on this funding without doing your research, so please contact your funding body direct if you need any help identifying your eligibility for funding.
If you are a continuing UWS student unable to progress, you can find out more about your funding options in our Guidance for Repeating a Period of Study.
It's important to remember that you are responsible for meeting the cost of tuition throughout your studies, so if for any reason this is not being paid on your behalf by a student finance body, you will be classed as a self-funded student and will be expected to meet this cost yourself.
However, that is still an additional monthly expense that you should plan and budget for.
You will also be required to pay a deposit at the point you enrol.
If you don’t make payments as planned, we may no longer be able to extend this courtesy.
Check out Student the Finance FAQs for more information.
Visit our Money & Debt Advice pages for advice on budgeting, and making your money go further.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/money-fees-funding/undergraduate-fees-funding/funding-for-eu-students:
If you are an EU national, it's important to understand that many factors will impact both your tuition fee status and the funding that may available to you.
These include where you are from, how long you have been in the UK, and whether you have settled status in the UK.
Before reading anything further on this page, make sure you understand your Tuition Fee Status as this will impact the funding you may be eligible for.
If you an EU national and do not meet any of the residency exceptions noted in our Tuition Fee Status webpage or below, you are categorised as an International Student and should read our web info aimed specifically at International Students .
Students who normally live in the Republic of Ireland will have a unique fee status of Republic of Ireland and may apply to Student Awards Agency Scotland (SAAS) for a tuition fee loan of up to £9,250 per year.
Find out more here.
You can also contact SAAS directly to ask any questions, as well as contacting the Funding and Advice Team at UWS .
If you are eligible to apply to SAAS for tuition fee only support, it is vitally important you consider how you will support yourself during your studies as there will not be a source of funds available to you.
Please visit our Money & Debt Advice pages for information on how you can budget to make your money go further.
Further information on eligibility and the application process can be found on the SAAS website .
Find out more about how the student loan works on our Debt & Borrowing pages.
EU, EEA and Swiss nationals, and their family members living in the UK by 31 December 2020, who wanted to remain in the UK after 30 June 2021, must normally have applied to the EU Settlement Scheme to be eligible for funding from Student Awards Agency Scotland (SAAS).
If you are applying for funding as a family member of an EU, EEA or Swiss national, your family member must have been living in the UK by 31 December 2020.
However, you could have joined them after this date.
You can either be eligible for tuition fee only support , or for full support , which includes tuition fee and living cost funding, and matches what would be available to a Scottish student.
The rules can be complex, so please do read the SAAS website carefully to ascertain your eligibility.
If you are eligible to apply to SAAS for full support, this is the same support that is available to Scottish students, so you will find a lot of helpful detail in our web information aimed specifically at Scottish students .
Whether you receive full support from SAAS or tuition fees only, you may wish to review the section below, titled Alternative Sources of Funding.
EU, EEA and Swiss nationals moving to live in the UK from 1 January 2021, without any form of settled immigration status are classed as International Students and will require a student visa, and should read our web info aimed specifically at International Students .
We have a lot of information to help you understand the cost of living in the UK, and to be financially prepared for your studies, in our special Living Costs in the UK webpage .
In some cases, you will be able to spread the cost over the academic year (usually up until April).
It’s also important to remember that the University extends you a courtesy by allowing you to pay in instalments, so if you do not make payments as planned, we may no longer be able to extend this courtesy.
Whether they are called trusts, scholarships, endowments, grants or bursaries, there are many alternative sources of funding that can help you through your studies.
Due to the large number of trust funds available, we are unable to offer bespoke advice about funds you may be eligible for.
However, whether you are looking for grants to pay tuition fees or top up your living cost support, we have a a dedicated webpage to help you start searching...
Alternative Trusts & Scholarships
It's really important to plan ahead financially and prepare for your time in the UK.
You can access our range of money management tools and resources designed to help you budget and better understand the cost of living in the UK.
While international students are unable to claim financial support from the University, in certain cases you may be able to apply for help meeting the cost of childcare you may have as a result of having dependent children with you during your studies.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/money-fees-funding/undergraduate-fees-funding/funding-for-international-students:
The Scottish/UK Government does not provide any student funding for international students coming to Scotland or the UK to study, but there are various scholarship and incentive schemes available to international students studying at UWS, that may help contribute towards these costs.
Visit our dedicated UWS Scholarships, Bursaries & Other Sources of Funding webpage for more details, and to search available funds.
As an International Student, you will be subject to a student visa when studying within the UK.
It's important to understand that a condition of your visa will be that you have enough money to meet your tuition and course costs, as well as your living costs.
This will help you understand how much essentials cost in the UK, from rent to groceries, in order to plan ahead appropriately before you move.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/money-fees-funding/alternative-trusts-scholarships:
You may be looking into this area because you are not eligible for student funding from the government or are interested in enhancing the support you are eligible for.
Due to the large number of alternative funds available, we are unable to offer bespoke advice about funds you may be eligible for.
Whether you are looking for grants to pay tuition fees or top up your living cost support, this page is a good place to start your research.
This page focuses on possible funds that are external to the University, and how you can start exploring this area of possible funding support.
Before delving into this detail and starting your research, you may wish to first explore the statutory funding that may be available to you, and the scholarships and bursaries provided by UWS.
find out more about Money, fees and funding
It is important to understand that searching for additional financial support can take up a lot of your time.
While there is no guarantee of finding a funding source that suits your requirements, we would encourage you to give it a go, as you definitely will not find anything if you do not try.
Most of these funds are competitive, and attract many applicants, but there may only be one award available, so it’s not dissimilar to applying for a job.
It is therefore important to spend time to carefully follow the guidance notes when completing your application, and think about how you can make your application stand out from the crowd.
The Alternative Guide to Postgraduate Funding is a web resource that UWS subscribe to, making it free for our students and prospective students to use.
It includes a funding database of over 600 charities and trusts, and access comprehensive guidance on how to produce a high-quality application.
SAAS maintain a register of educational endowments, which is just another way of saying they have a list of possible trust funds or scholarships that you may wish to investigate.
Some of the schemes they have on their list include eligibility criteria, links to websites or email addresses of the organisation.
Others may require you to write away for more information.
You can view the list on the SAAS website .
You can use The Scholarship Hub to search for UK scholarships, grants or bursaries, as well as find information on how to apply for these opportunities.
You should check the website regularly as opportunities can open up throughout the year.
Prospects is a useful website offering lots of information about postgraduate study and job advice with specific information on postgraduate study funding .
You can use Scholarship Search to look for funds by organisation, subject area or level of study.
You can use Uni Grants to search for funds by organisation, subject area or level of study.
We’ve gathered the following information on various organisations that are offering these alternative styles of funding to students.
You’ll find details in the sections below, including links to specific web information where you can find out more, including how to make an application.
If you hold a UK passport and are actively considering a career as a commissioned officer in one of the three branches of HM Armed Forces, you may wish to apply for a scholarship or sponsorship under their undergraduate officer schemes.
You may be eligible for a higher grant if your degree is in a specialist or technical discipline such as physics, engineering, maths, or nursing.
For further information and to apply visit:
This grant is suitable for students with kidney problems who are receiving dialysis or have recently had a transplant.
Further information and details on how to apply can be found on the Kidney Care UK website .
The Carnegie Trust administers several different schemes to different types of students.
Further information is available at The Carnegie Trust website .
The Foundation offers help to students through scholarships, awards, prizes and bursaries.
It offers awards and grants to students and assists the Crichton Campus partners, including Dumfries & Galloway College, University of Glasgow, University of West of Scotland, Open University, Crichton Carbon Centre and Scotland's Rural College.
For more detailed information please visit the Crichton Foundation website .
Set up in memory of Scotland's first, First Minister, Donald Dewar.
The Dewar Arts Awards provide funding to support young artistic talent living and/or working in Scotland.
To be considered for a Dewar Arts Award, applicants must:
The Trustees look for candidates who have strong ambition and a real passion for their chosen artform.
Applicants must be able to demonstrate a clear view of their future development (or that of a particular project), and how receiving a Dewar Award would help them to achieve their goals.
Further information is available at the Dewar Awards website .
The Trust provides help with several educational expenses including travel costs, educational excursions, equipment costs, postgraduate courses, and adult education.
The fund is suitable for undergraduate and postgraduate students in part-time or full-time study.
Applicants must reside in Dumfriesshire and be wholly or substantially educated there.
Further information and application forms can be found here .
You can also contact det@dumgal.gov.uk for more details.
The Gilchrist Educational Trust provides grants to full-time undergraduate and postgraduate students attending British universities who find themselves facing unexpected financial difficulties.
Grants are available to cover course costs and other associated expenses whilst studying and are usually intended to help final year learners complete their course.
Further information on eligibility can be found on the Gilchrist Educational Trust website .
Application forms can be requested via email at gilchrist.et@gmail.com or you can write to 4 St Michaels Gate, Shrewsbury, SY1 2HL.
The Holywood Trust is a charitable organisation which aims to help young people, in Dumfries and Galloway fulfil their potential in cultural, educational and social aspects of their lives.
Further information and details on how to apply can be found at the Holywood Trust website .
The ICAS Foundation provides bursary funding to eligible students studying accountancy or a finance related degree.
The ICAS Foundation is a body that has been established by ICAS (Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland) to make a significant difference to academically talented young people from disadvantaged communities by helping them take their first steps into a professional career in accountancy or finance.
Young people from disadvantaged communities are under-represented at universities across Scotland, especially for those on courses that lead to a life-long profession.
ICAS, as one of the leading professional accountancy bodies in the world, believes that it can do more to open up access to the accountancy profession and has helped establish the Foundation to help do just that.
ICAS offers bursaries of up to £2,500 per academic year for students studying accountancy or a finance related subject.
Students with parental income below £34,000 are eligible to apply.
Further information is available on the ICAS Foundation website .
Grants are available to young people up to and including 21-year-olds, with either a physical or learning disability or who are socially disadvantaged.
The Trust provides help with education and training expenses, including books, travel and cost of trips and is suitable for full-time and part-time undergraduates.
Although priority is given to individuals and groups in the Lothian region, grants can also be awarded elsewhere in Scotland.
Application forms and further information on eligibility can be obtained from the John Watson's Trust .
A Macmillan Grant is a one-off payment for adults, young people or children with cancer, to cover a wide range of practical needs.
This can include things such as heating bills, extra clothing, or a much needed break.
Undergraduate and postgraduate students in part-time or full-time study who have cancer or are still affected by the illness or treatment can apply.
Further information on eligibility and how to apply is available on the Macmillan website .
Postgrad Solutions Ltd is offering postgraduate study Bursaries to students starting a postgraduate course in the 2024-25 academic year.
Each bursary is worth £2,000 and they are open to students from anywhere in the world.
For more information and how to apply, please visit the Postgrad Solutions website .
Offer financial support to children of serving and veteran members of the armed forces, who are enrolled in college or university and studying to undergraduate degree level.
The University and College Fund can contribute towards the costs of:
Applications to the fund should be made directly from the young person themselves.
Further information and applications are available from Children & Young People - Forces Children Scotland .
The Foundation aims to primarily help students studying for their first degree with supplementary grants towards items such as books and equipment and instruments.
The fund is available to undergraduate and postgraduate students in part-time or full-time study who are under 35 at the start of their course.
Students must be in the second year or above of a three or four-year degree course and be studying for their first degree to be eligible to apply.
For further details on eligibility and to apply, visit the Sidney Perry Foundation website.
The Stirlingshire Educational Trust provides grants to students who have resided in Stirlingshire for a minimum of 5 consecutive years, either currently or in the past, or have been born there.
Awards may be made towards fees, books, travel, equipment, kit etc.
Further information and details on how to apply are available from the Trust's website .
The Cross Trust is a charitable body that provides grants to students under 30 years old who are of Scottish Birth or Parentage and can demonstrate high academic merit and financial need in order, " to extend the boundaries of their knowledge of human life." as were the words of the Trust's founder Sir Alexander Cross (1880-1963).
Further information on funding available and details on how to apply, can be found on the Cross Trust website .
The Shwab and Westheimer Trust offer a range of scholarships to young people from asylum-seeking backgrounds wishing to study for their first Undergraduate degree or are embarking on a Postgraduate degree programme (MSc or PhD).
The scholarships on offer will vary, depending on the type of course you are studying.
Some of which may pay home tuition fees and related study costs for asylum seeking students studying a relevant undergraduate or postgraduate degree course.
Scholarships previously on offer included:
The Westheimer Scholarship
The Ralph N Emanuel Scholarship
The Scholarship supported by the Marks Family Charitable Trust
Each scholarship has different award values and its own eligibility criteria, it is therefore important that you check out the individual scholarships to see which one is relevant to your needs and to ensure eligibility prior to applying.
Further information on what is available can be found at the following websites:
Schwab and Westheimer and Refugee Education UK
The St Andrew’s Society of the State of New York Scholarship offers a life changing opportunity for Scottish students studying Law, Finance, Journalism, Education and the Arts, to study in the United States for one year.
Each scholarship offers up to £35,000 to use towards tuition, maintenance and travel costs.
Students with no previous experience of the United States and for whom a period of study there would provide a life-changing experience, will be given preference.
Further information on eligibility and details of how to apply is available from the Society’s website .
This scholarship is designed to support talented student athletes as they develop their sporting abilities and continue their academic studies and foster success in international competitions.
The scholarships can be used for a range of support services which will assist you and your sporting development.
The scholarships are funded by the Scottish Funding Council and managed by the University of Stirling.
Further information and details of how to apply can be found on the Winning Students Scholarships website .

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/money-fees-funding/national-student-money-week:
Each year, UWS takes part in National Student Money Week and 2025 is no different.
National Student Money Week 2025 (NSMW25), runs between 3rd and 7th March.
We'll have a range of events, activities, games, information and guidance for you to get your hands on.
This year’s theme is 'Survive & Thrive', so we're focusing on helping you survive by managing the basics when it comes to your money and also taking that extra step towards thriving.
We’ll touch on how you can improve your financial resilience by budgeting effectively, managing your debts, looking after your physical wellbeing (such as eating well on a budget), and being mindful of how your mental wellbeing can impact your spending habits.
To make it even better, we’re joining forces with Careers, International Student Support, Wellbeing, Student Success and the Students’ Union to also celebrate National Careers Week and University Mental Health Day.
We'll also give you a refresher of the support available to you at UWS throughout your studies.
UWS Radio will be broadcasting live from our event!
Join us for activities, information stalls and much more!
No need to book, pop in to the Atrium!
Discover the support available to you while a UWS student and advice to get the most out of your money.
Turn up on the day, find us in the Street!
Join our Wellbeing and Student Services colleagues for information stalls, games and prizes!
Find us in the Export Building, near the Hub!
Alongside our UWS Teams, we'll have a range of externals joining us on campus with lots of money advice.
Join us at the Hub, no need to pre-book!
Swap your unwanted clothes for something else for free!
Non-residents can also attend.
Drop in on to Storie Street Residences Common Room.
Bring your unwanted clothes and swap them for something else!
Non-residents can attend.
Simply drop in to Ayr Campus Residences Common Room.
Chill out with some clay, while our Funding & Advice and Wellbeing Teams chat about your student experience.
Open to our Paisley Student Residents.
We'll provide the materials, you bring creativity!
Open to everyone.
No need to book, just drop in!
Browse the Swap Shop and refresh your wardrobe!
Bring or browse all week at the UWS Dumfries Reception.
Learn more about ways to manage your money, different bank accounts that can help us achieve our goals and how to prepare for a financial shock.
Learn more about what finances you might have when you leave education, how to pay bills and what to look out for from your payslip.
Read on for lots of brilliant information, advice and guidance to help you survive and thrive.
Follow @uwsstudentservices for more tips during National Student Money Week.
The Funding and Advice Team are on hand to offer support year-round, not just during National Student Money Week.
Find out more about what they offer, and how you can use their service .
If you are interested in making your income go further, you might also want to consider stretching your income.
We have a range of Discretionary Funds available to certain types of students, that can offer extra funds to help you meet your basic living costs while studying.
These act as a top up to your student funding from SAAS or SLC, so if you feel you might benefit from this type of income boost, click below for full details.
UWS Discretionary Funds
Managing finances as a student can be challenging.
However, with planning and resourcefulness, it's possible to thrive on a student budget.
At UWS we have a webpage dedicated to helping you budget, plan and thrive while at university.
Budgeting & Planning
Budgeting for a month at a time is surviving.
However, thinking longer term and looking at the year ahead, or even longer, is thriving.
The key to a successful budget is understanding where your money is going.
To understand your spending habits, you can use our UWS Spending Diary (PDF) .
It helps you track where you money goes, and any patterns to your spending that you might want to break, such as buying takeaways when you are tired.
The next step is to create a budget, but not just for the month.
Looking longer term helps you to plan for one off expenses and celebrations such as Christmas and birthdays.
One of our favourite budgeting tools to help you plan ahead and thrive is from MoneyHelper , and is a tool that can be returned to throughout your life, not just while you are a student.
Ensure your essential costs, such as rent, utilities, and groceries, are covered first.
These are the types of outgoings that are most important to your basic needs, such as a roof over your head, heating and food.
Then consider a plan for other costs, that might not be as essential as the above.
These costs are usually where you can cut back spending if need be.
This approach helps maintain financial stability and prevents overspending and you can set goals to help motivate you measure your success.
The Demotivator is a fun tool to let you see how non-essential spending can add up without you realising.
A helpful approach is to work with two bank accounts - one where all your bills are paid from and one where you keep spending money for groceries and other outgoings.
Experian have a great article on this tactic.
You can also opt for accounts with facilities like ‘pots’, which allow you to put money away for certain upcoming bills.
For example, car MOT, birthdays, holiday, car insurance payment etc.
MoneyHelper have some great advice on using savings pots .
Keep your outgoings as low as possible by taking advantage of student discounts available at various retailers, restaurants, and entertainment venues.
Sign up to student discount platforms.
Student Crowd have a great overview.
If you rely on public transportation, consider discount schemes or wherever possible travel off peak.
Working part time can provide additional income to help you thrive.
Balancing work and study can enhance time management skills as well as reducing financial stress.
Our Careers Team has an area of their website dedicated to helping students into employment.
UWS Careers Service
Setting aside a portion of your income for unexpected expenses can prevent financial setbacks by providing a buffer for emergencies and providing some peace of mind.
Round up or save the change tools are a great way to save small amounts of money with little effort, and those small amounts can add up.
But the best approach is to treat your savings like a priority outgoing and get into the habit of saving a regular amount each week/month.
The following are helpful articles that can help you better understand techniques for saving:
When budgets are tight, it can be tempting to look to borrowing as a solution.
However, all that does is add more outgoings in the form of credit card payments, interest etc.
Thinking about budgeting goes hand in hand with thinking about debts, so be sure to also read the Debt section below.
We all need food to survive.
Making food an essential expense that should be prioritised.
However, that does not mean that are ways to keep this cost down.
Simply surviving is to eat basic meals at home, and avoid take-aways or eating out to save money on food.
Thriving is to gain more confidence in the kitchen, and learning to prepare simple, delicious meals with low-cost ingredients, to share with friends, freeze for another day, or enjoy for lunch tomorrow.
We have a webpage full of tips and advice about food, from keeping costs down while shopping, to prepping and cooking in a way that reduces waste.
We even have two downloadable cookbooks to help you find some inspiration.
UWS Food
We all need social interaction to survive.
Saving money by cutting out this type of completely is not the best approach to our overall wellbeing.
It's possible to survive by going out less to save money.
However, it's also possible to thrive, while still enjoying a vibrant social life, but through cheap or free activities with friends.
Start walking/running together.
Search for discounted sessions at local venues.
Explore the local area.
Look for taster sessions and free classes.
Or take turns hosting dinner parties or have everyone bring a dish.
Try something new!
We have a webpage full of tips and advice about lifestyle spending, from helping you prioritise where you want to spend your money, to how to do fun things for less.
UWS Lifestyle
People are so different when it comes to their opinion on spending money on clothes and fashion.
For some people, they like to keep up with trends, while others want the basics.
Even buying just the basics can cost a little bit of money, but perhaps not frequently.
Just think about how many international students come to study in the UK (Scotland especially) and need to invest in a winter wardrobe.
The good news is, it’s possible to do this while keeping your spending under control.
To survive is to make things last rather than regularly upgrading and buying new, but sometimes quality can cost.
If you buy cheap, you might end up having to replace items more frequently than if you bought good quality (and slightly more expensive) in the first place.
So, consider quality alongside price.
Remember - just because something costs more, does not automatically make it better quality.
Do your research to brands you trust.
Thrive by making the most of pre-loved platforms (or even high street charity shops) to buy when it's time for an upgrade, enjoying a refreshing change without making a dent in your wallet.
Shop in Vinted or Depop to get your hands on ‘new to you’ items at low cost, or go one step further and sell your own items to make a bit of extra cash.
You could keep costs down by avoiding spending money on non-essential costs like gym memberships.
However, physical activity is so important to a healthy body and mind that you need to find a good balance.
There are lots of opportunities to look after your physical wellbeing by exercising for free – walking or running, especially in green environments can be great for both mental and physical wellbeing.
UWS Scottish Campus students can benefit from free gym membership , with unlimited access to facilities and classes.
Our mood can have a big impact on our spending habits, as well as our judgement and decision making.
However, not everyone is impacted in the same way.
The link between money and mental wellbeing can be described as a vicious cycle.
Low mood and poor mental wellbeing causing spending issues, and/or, money worries causing low mood and poor mental wellbeing.
If you find yourself in this position, there are things you can do to help you survive and thrive, and stay on top of your spending.
You can start to better understand your own habits by understanding the link between money and mental health.
This article by Mind is a great starting point.
Take it one step further and start using our resources to thrive and help stay in control of your finances:
SilverCloud gives you secure, immediate access to interactive Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT) modules.
Tap into a range of support, aimed at students:
Gaming and gambling can be a harmless habit for many people.
However, both can veer into problematic behaviour if you're spending money you do not have or are struggling to control how much you spend.
The following resources may be helpful if you want to learn more.
Debt and borrowing are part of life.
Keeping this manageable is the key to financial success during your studies, especially as money may be tight.
Whilst you may not be able to completely avoid debt there are definitely strategies you can use to ensure your finances stay on track.
Visit UWS Debt & Borrowing Money

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/money-fees-funding/postgraduate-fees-funding/funding-for-scottish-students:
Scottish students studying at postgraduate level at UWS may be entitled to various funds and support towards tuition fees and living costs.
PGDE students are funded through the undergraduate funding system.
Further information can be found in the section for Scottish Undergraduates.
Postgraduate Social Work courses fall under the remit of the Scottish Social Services Council (SSSC) and you should read the specialist information in the section below before reading any further information.
Applications typically open in April.
We recommend applying early to ensure your funding is ready for you starting your course in September, and you have time to resolve any unexpected issues that may arise.
And if your course starts in our January or May intake, the SAAS application will accommodate this, just aim to apply nice and early.
SAAS will provide funding for taught postgraduate studies up to Masters level, as long as you have not already used UK or EU funds to study at this level.
‘Taught’ refers to courses with an element of teaching.
It's possible to get this funding for distance learning courses where there is a taught element.
This can include online tutorials, seminars and webinars.
Students are usually only eligible for this package of funding once, so if you have started studies at this level previously (even if you did not gain the qualification), or need to repeat a period of study, you should be mindful that the funding package is limited.
It is always best to apply to SAAS well in advance, so you know exactly how much support, if any, you have available to you.
Student funding packages for full time students are made up of a tuition fee loan and living costs loan.
The tuition fee loan is worth up to £7,000 and the living cost loan is worth £6,900 and is not income-assessed.
This brings the total package to £13,900.
The tuition fee loan is worth up to £7,000.
This will be paid directly to the University but you are responsible for applying.
Should your course fee be lower than this, you should apply to SAAS for a lower amount.
Should it be higher than this, you will remain responsible for meeting the additional costs and should plan for this.
The living costs loan is not income-assessed so you do not need to send SAAS any details of your household income.
While you will be eligible for £6,900, you can elect to take out less of a student loan if you do not need your full entitlement.
This award is then paid to you in monthly instalments based on the length of your course.
It is important to note that the above figures are for your 'course' and the living cost payments are spread across the duration of your course.
While some full-time MSc courses will last 1 year, if your course lasts longer, such as the MSc Social Work which lasts 2 years, this package of funding is spread over the longer period, making each monthly payment smaller.
the figures noted above are NOT per year of study.
Find out more about Postgraduate Funding on the SAAS website .
If you are a part-time student undertaking an eligible course, you can apply for a tuition fee loan.
In order to be eligible for this, you must be completing the course in no longer than twice the length of time it would take to complete if you were a full-time student.
For example, if your course is available to full-time students as a 1 year MSc, you will be funded for a maximum of 2 years' part-time study.
If it is available to full-time students as a 2 year MSc, you will be funded for a maximum of 4 years' part-time study.
In all cases the fee is split equally across all years of the course, so you do need to plan your studies in advance.
You should apply for this in each year study and are not eligible for any living cost support.
The total tuition fee loan is worth up to a maximum of £7,000 for the entirety of your course (i.e.
NOT in each year of study).
This will be paid directly to the University, but you are responsible for applying for it.
Should it be higher than this, you will remain responsible for meeting the additional costs.
Remember that your support will be in the form of loans, which need to be paid back.
Postgraduate Bursaries are available for nominated and eligible students studying the MSc Social Work at UWS.
This is administered through the Scottish Social Services Council (SSSC).
Funding is limited and subject to a quota.
Students must be nominated by the University, who will have a set number of funded places.
Nominations are at the discretion of the academic teaching team, who you should contact directly with any questions relating to this process.
The bursary is made up of:
Please see the link below for information on the award rates and assessment criteria:
We strongly recommend you read the information on these 2 links carefully so that you fully understand the funding available via the SSSC scheme.
Practice Learning Support Grant
There is no guarantee that a University will nominate a student for a Bursary and they may have more students than quota places.
If you have studied a Postgraduate course previously this may also affect your eligibility.
Please note, if you are not nominated to apply for the Bursary, or are not eligible to receive the Bursary, you can apply to SAAS for funding, through the SAAS Postgraduate Loan Scheme, but should note the following...
For further information, please contact the SSSC or SAAS as relevant.
These can include grants that can pay tuition fees, living cost support and funding for research expenses so this can be a good avenue to explore whether you have been unable to get funding through the above sources, or a simply looking to top this up.
The best place to start exploring this avenue is through our Alternative Trusts and Scholarships page .
Just remember, we can’t possibly include every fund on our page, so don’t limit yourself to this page alone.
If you are self-funding, we encourage you to think of the tuition fees as another expense you are committing to.
It’s also important to remember that the University extends you a courtesy by allowing you to pay in instalments, so if you don’t make payments as planned, we may no longer be able to extend this courtesy.
Where a full-time course requires a student to work in a relevant role as part of their studies, and therefore continue to be employed throughout studies, students are generally not eligible for student funding .
Find our more about the scheme

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/money-fees-funding/postgraduate-fees-funding/funding-for-english-welsh-northern-irish-students:
English, Welsh and Northern Irish students studying at postgraduate level at UWS are entitled to various funds and support towards tuition fees and living costs.
Further information can be found in the section for undergraduates.
If you have received UK or EU funding previously to undertake a course, you may wish to contact your funding body to confirm your entitlement before making any decisions.
Postgraduate Social Work courses may fall under the remit of local Social Services authorities.
You can find more information about this in the sections below.
If you’re starting a master’s course you could get a Postgraduate Master’s Loan to help with course fees and living costs.
You can find out more about the value of this loan via the link above.
This will likely provide a contribution towards your tuition and living costs rather than cover these costs in full.
This funding can be available if you are undertaking the course on a full or part-time basis and will be divided equally across each year if it will take you more than 1 year to complete the course.
You can also claim this for distance learning courses.
You can usually only apply for this once and cannot get this if you have already achieved a qualification at this level or higher, or are behind in repayments for any previous loans from the Student Loans Company.
The loan will be paid directly to you and is to be used for your course fees and living costs.
You get the first payment after your course start date, once you are fully enrolled and can confirm this with SLC.
The loan will be paid in 3 instalments of 33%, 33% and 34% each year.
After your application has been approved, you’ll be sent a letter with your payment dates or you can check them in your online account.
Find out how the student loan works, including any interest rates and repayment terms, by visiting the UK Government website.
If you’re starting a doctoral degree, such as a PhD, you could get a Postgraduate Doctoral Loan to help with course fees and living costs.
This funding can be available if you are undertaking the course on a full or part-time basis and will be divided equally across each year of study.
You can also claim this for distance learning study.
It will be divided equally across each year of your course.
Find out how the student loan works, including any interest rates and repayment terms, by visiting the UK Government website .
Funding for studying Social Work is usually available through the NHS Business Services Authority, but students from England can usually only apply for this when studying an eligible course in England.
You can find out more on the UK Government website or through the NHS Business Services Authority .
If you’re starting a full-time or part-time postgraduate Master’s course, a Postgraduate Diploma, or a Postgraduate Certificate, you may apply for a Postgraduate Tuition Fee Loan to help with course costs.
Should your course fee be higher than the amount available, you will remain responsible for meeting the additional costs.
The loan will be paid directly to the University on your behalf after you are fully enrolled and we confirm your attendance.
It will be divided across each year of your course, and is paid in 3 instalments of 25%, 25% and 50% each year.
Even if you are eligible to apply for tuition fee support, it is vitally important you consider how you will meet the balance of any tuition fees not covered by the loan, as well as you living costs during your studies, as unlike undergraduate level study, there are no funds available from SFNI for your living costs as this level of study.
Students from Northern Ireland are unable to claim the Social Work Bursary if they choose to study outside Northern Ireland.
You should read the information in the section above, and contact Student Finance NI to determine your eligibility.
If you’re starting a full-time or part-time postgraduate Master’s course you may apply for a Postgraduate Masters Finance package.
This is a combination of grants and loans to help with course and living costs.
You can find out more about the value of this support package via the link above.
It will be divided across each year of your course.
You can usually only apply for this once and cannot get this if you have already achieved a qualification at this level or higher, or are behind in repayments for any previous loans from the Student Loan Company .
Students from Wales are unable to claim the Social Work Bursary if they choose to study outside Wales.
You should read the information in the section above, and contact Student Finance Wales to determine your eligibility.
If for any reason this is not being paid on your behalf by a student finance body, you will be classed as a self-funded student and will be expected to meet this cost yourself.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/money-fees-funding/postgraduate-fees-funding/funding-for-eu-students:
If you an EU national and do not meet any of the residency exceptions noted in our Tuition Fee Status webpage or below, you are categorised as an International Student.
You should read our web information aimed specifically at International Students .
You should be sure to read the Tuition Fee Status information carefully to ensure you best understand how your circumstances impact your Tuition Fee Status .
Students who normally live in the Republic of Ireland will have a unique fee status of Republic of Ireland and may apply to Student Awards Agency Scotland (SAAS) for a tuition fee loan of up to £7,000 per year.
Find out more about the EU Tuition Fee Loan on the SAAS website .
If you are eligible to apply to SAAS for tuition fee only support, it is vitally important you consider how you will meet the cost of your tuition fees if they are over the SAAS loan amount, and how you will support yourself during your studies as there will not be a source of funds available to you.
Find out more about how the student loan works on our Debt & Borrowing Money page .
If you are eligible to apply to SAAS for full support, this is the same support that is available to Scottish students, so you will find a lot of helpful detail in our web info aimed specifically at Scottish students .
EU, EEA and Swiss nationals moving to live in the UK from 1 January 2021, without any form of settled immigration status, are classed as International Students and will require a student visa, and should read our web info aimed specifically at International Students .
We have a lot of information to help you understand the cost of living in the UK, and to be financially prepared for your studies, in our Living Costs in the UK webpage .

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/money-fees-funding/postgraduate-fees-funding/funding-for-international-students:
The Scottish/UK Government does not provide any student funding for international students coming to Scotland or the UK to study.
However, there are various scholarship and incentive schemes available to international students studying at UWS, that may help contribute towards these costs.
As an International Student, you will be subject to a student visa when studying within the UK, and it is important to understand that a condition of your visa will be that you have enough money to meet your tuition and course costs, as well as your living costs.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/research-degrees/admissions-application/academic-entry-requirements:
Postgraduate Research students work at the forefront of their academic subject and contribute to the advancement of knowledge.
To be a successful researcher, you must be passionate about your subject area, with enthusiasm for research and analysis, and the motivation to manage a personal learning programme.
Entry onto a postgraduate research degree normally requires you to have obtained a good Honours degree (First or Upper Second Class) or a postgraduate taught or research qualification in a relevant area of study.
To get the best results from your studies, it is essential that you have a good command of English.
All International students are required to meet English Language requirements outlined by UWS, with the exception of:
If you do not fit in to any of the above categories you are required to provide proof of your English language ability through a SELT (secure English language test).
UWS requires an IELTS score of 6.5 or above (with no no component below 6.0).
IELTS tests should normally be taken no more than two years before applying to UWS.
Visit the UKVI website for full, up-to-date details of English language requirements.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/research-degrees/admissions-application/postgraduate-research-application-guide:
We are delighted that you are thinking of undertaking a postgraduate research degree at the University of the West of Scotland.
Applying for postgraduate study is a simple process through our online application system.
There are four intakes for postgraduate research degrees throughout the year – February, April, June and October – you can choose which intake suits you best when you apply.
It’s easy to make an application.
Our step-by-step guide (below) helps you make your application.
If you live outside the UK, we’ve developed a different step-by-step guide for international students .
If you want to apply directly you can make your research degree application using our online application system:
Apply for a research degree
We offer more than 80 postgraduate research degrees at MRes, MPhil or PhD level.
Check our research study options
Make sure that your academic qualifications meet the requirements for your chosen course (most postgraduate degree courses will require you to hold an undergraduate degree from a UK institution (if you’ve studied abroad you’ll need an equivalent qualification from an institution recognized by the UK National Recognition Information Centre ).
Financial support for postgraduate research study is limited, and is typically distributed by one of seven UK Research Councils.
Visit UK Research and Innovation website to find out whether your field of research is eligible for funding.
Find out more about research degree studentships at UWS.
You can apply for postgraduate research at UWS via our free online application system .
Once you are ready you can submit your application through our online application system .
You can apply for a postgraduate research degree right up to the start of the intake.
After you submit your application, we will send you an email confirming that we have received your application within 24 hours.
You can also monitor the progress of your application on the UWS online application system.
Once you receive and accept your unconditional offer, you’re ready to study at UWS.
We’ve developed a short pre-arrival guide to help you to prepare for life and study at UWS.
You can also explore life at UWS at our University Life section.
View the Criminal Convictions & Charges Procedure

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/admissions-application/applicant-interviews:
Due to level of competition for entry into undergraduate study, some courses use applicant interviews as part of the recruitment process.
Applicant interviews help our academic and admissions staff to assess your personal attributes as well as your academic qualifications.
The following courses require you to complete an applicant interviews:
You will receive information about your applicant interview as part of the applications process.
Due to the numbers of prospective students applying for each course, applicant interviews tend to be relatively brief.
To give yourself the best chance of success at interview you should spend time preparing to present all of your achievements and experiences clearly and succinctly.
The applicant interview is designed to assess the strengths and motivations of prospective students.
During the interview you may be asked to:
You will also have the opportunity to ask questions at the end of your session.
If you have applied for accelerated entry into year 2 and year 3 of this programme, you will be considered for both at the one interview.
If you have applied for more than one course you may be invited to separate interviews.
If you are successful in your interview, you will receive either a conditional or unconditional offer of study through UCAS.
If you receive an unconditional offer this means you have satisfied all academic elements of the applications process and once you have accepted the offer you will be ready to start at UWS.
If you receive a conditional offer, this means you will need to obtain additional qualifications which will be set out in the offer.
Download the UWS Admissions Policy

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/meet-our-student-recruitment-team:
Hi, and welcome from the Student Recruitment Team at UWS.
We cover Scotland and the Rest of the United Kingdom (RUK).
We are a well experienced team who have many existing relationships with key stakeholders within local authority schools.
We are excited and about the prospect of working with new partners.
Our friendly team are here to make the transition from school to university as seamless as possible.
We can deliver bespoke presentations and workshops to your senior cohorts, as well as attend school careers events.
Should you wish to request a representative from the team to visit your school, please get in touch via studentrecruitment@uws.ac.uk
UWS Recruitment Events
Get to know our Student Recruitment team and where you can find them at upcoming events.
The team are delighted to welcome our new Student Recruitment & Conversion Manager Stewart Coubrough.
To keep up to date with us on social media, why don’t you follow us?
Twitter: @UWS_SR
Instagram: uws_student_recruitment
Facebook: UniWestofScotland

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/offer-holder-support:
Now that you’ve received your offer from us, you’re one step closer to joining University of West of Scotland (UWS) this September!
If you have made your decision about joining us but have not yet replied, then here is a reminder of important dates by which you should reply.
If you have not yet made your decision, or would like more information, then why not join us at one of our summer open days where there are dedicated offer-holder sessions.
You can also browse down this page to find out more about life at UWS through our blogs , learn about some of our inspiring student stories , find out about support available , or chat with our students through Unibuddy or contact us directly .
We'd love to meet you at one of our organised campus visits.
Join a Paisley campus VISIT
Join a Lanarkshire campus VISIT
Join aN Ayr campus VISIT
For more information relating to replying to your offer you can visit UCAS which has helpful guides.
Click your offer type below for more insight on what it means and what you need to do next to reply.
This means you've already met the entry requirements, and you’ve found your place at UWS!
All you need to do now is accept your offer and you’ll be a UWS student in September.
Depending on your course, you may still need to get a PVG check or provide proof of your results.
Check your offer for these details.
We’re excited to give you an offer of study, and there are some conditions you have to meet to get your place at UWS confirmed.
For most people, this means waiting for results day in summer to see if your exam results meet the conditions.
They could be a combination of grades, scores or subjects.
Your offer will provide all of the relevant details.
Depending on how you have applied, there are two ways to respond to your offer.
UCAS
Once you have received decisions from all of your chosen universities, UCAS will alert you that it is time to respond to your offers.
If you have received an unconditional offer from us, and accept as your firm choice, then congratulations - you're in!
Those holding conditional offers are advised to make two choices: 'Firm' and 'Insurance', the insurance choice university usually has lower entry criteria than the firm choice, so that if you do not meet the conditions of the offer for your firm choice, you may still meet those of your insurance and secure a place at university.
You'll then need to decline any other offers you have received.
Direct
If you have applied to us directly, then you will need to respond to your offer via our application portal.
Our blogs explore a range of aspects of studying at UWS and give you a real flavour of the University.
Check them out ahead of September and get excited for your #LifeAtUWS.
There’s a handy offer-holder checklist, along with a further selection of blogs highlighted below.
Explore the blog to hear from our inspiring community of students and staff as they share their stories across a range of aspects concerning their life at UWS.
From places to eat to things to do outwith your studies, you'll find all the information here.
Find out how our students found their place at UWS
Across our four campuses in the West of Scotland - in Paisley, Lanarkshire, Dumfries and Ayr - and our campus in London enjoy access to a wide range of social, leisure and academic facilities to make the most of your time at UWS
From University-managed flats to private rentals, find out more about accommodation options at UWS.
Phone: 0800 027 1000 (UK) /
+44 (0) 141 849 4101 (out-with UK)
Join our Offer Holder Community - Unibuddy

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/new-college-lanarkshire:
The Undergraduate School is a unique partnership between New College Lanarkshire (NCL) and the University of the West of Scotland (UWS).
Students will have the opportunity to study a range of industry-focused degree programmes and directly benefit from the teaching expertise, industry knowledge and resource capability of NCL and UWS.
The BA Business Enterprise and Marketing is delivered at New College Lanarkshire and provide you with the skills to turn your passion into a thriving commercial business.
Delivered through a unique partnership with New College Lanarkshire, the BSc (Hons) Collaborative Health and Social Care is those who aspire to work in or who want to develop their career in health an...
The BEng Cyber Security is delivered via the Undergraduate School, in a unique partnership between UWS and New College Lanarkshire.
The BSc Digital Development is delivered at New College Lanarkshire and provides you with a solid foundation in theory, tools, and concepts and acquaints you with the newest processes required for the...
The BA Social Sciences is delivered via the Undergraduate School and is a unique partnership between UWS and New College Lanarkshire.
Got questions about applying?
Our friendly Undergraduate Admissions team has got you covered!
Just reach out to them for assistance.
ugschool@nclan.ac.uk
Check out our #LifeAtUWS blogs, where our inspiring community of students and staff tell us more about what it's really like to study at UWS.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/part-time-study/part-time-study-application-guide:
Apply for part-time study in a simple process through our online application system .
Before you begin your application, read our guide below.
We offer more than 60 undergraduate and over 80 postgraduate courses to study part-time.
COURSE SEARCH
Search for the course you want to study with the search function above.
Make sure the option to study part-time is available.
Academic qualifications
Academic entry requirements are the same for part-time students and full-time students.
You can find entry requirements listed on each individual course page.
To get the most out of your studies at UWS it is essential that you are able to read, speak and understand the English language.
All applicants are required to meet minimum English language standards.
If you’ve already studied at college or university, you may be able to gain accelerated entry into year 2 or 3 of study.
Our education guidance advisers can advise on how your previous studies might contribute to your part-time study.
Part-time students pay tuition fees regardless of where in the UK they are staying.
You will pay up-front for each module.
Many students choose to study part-time to achieve academic goals that are related to their current job.
It may be worth having a discussion with your employer to find out whether they can help towards tuition fee costs.
There are also a number of bursaries and loans that part-time students may be eligible for to help meet the cost of study.
Find out more about financial support for part-time students.
Apply for part-time study at UWS through our online application system.
Remember to select the part-time (undergraduate and postgraduate) application type.
As part of the application process, you will need to provide the following:
Once you are ready you can submit your application through our online application system.
This will include guidance on how to accept an offer and how to pay the fee, if required.
You can also monitor the progress of your application on the UWS application portal.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/postgraduate-course-search/advanced-biomedical-science:
Lanarkshire, Fully online
Lanarkshire, Fully online*: January, September
The COVID-19 pandemic highlighted the vital role of the biomedical scientist in the combat of disease and of the health of society.
Our newly redeveloped IBMS-accredited MSc Advanced Biomedical Science programme gives you the skills and knowledge to advance (or build towards) a career as an NHS biomedical scientist.
The proficiencies covered are also transferable to careers within the bioscience sector and research.
A fully online study mode is available to students who are employed by an IBMS-accredited UK-based healthcare provider (for example, NHS biomedical laboratory).
The course aims to give you a balance of theory and application of a range of techniques relevant to the biomedical sciences such as medical genetics, disease pathology, research design and biomedical quality control.
The programme was designed with input from biomedical scientists, research scientists and bioscience experts.
It combines the best elements of biomedical science with an appreciation of the advanced technologies important in healthcare provision.
Emphasis is placed on the application of quality and management processes in the improvement of healthcare provision by biomedical laboratories.
The programme consists of core and optional modules allowing pathway flexibility through the MSc to meet the bespoke needs of individual students.
*Fully online route only available to those employed by an IBMS-accredited UK-based healthcare provider (for example, NHS biomedical laboratory).
This programme aligns to the following UN Sustainable Development Goals:
Professional approval and accreditation
Our course is accredited by the Institute of Biomedical Science (IBMS).
Placement opportunities
Work-based learning modules (as an alternative to the discipline-specific modules) are available to students who are, or have completed, an IBMS Specialist portfolio.
Career prospects
Graduates can enter a wide range of vocations, providing they meet the requirements of the employer and employment opportunities, including:
Please note that graduation with the MSc does not entitle you to become registered with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) as a biomedical scientist.
Registration requires demonstration that certain standards of proficiency are met, and you are advised to check the IBMS and HCPC websites.
90 percent of research at UWS is classed as world-leading, internationally excellent, or recognised internationally (Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2021)
Cara Morton , MSc Advanced Biomedical Science graduate
You must have gained a second class BSc Honours in Biomedical Science, Bioscience or a related science degree.
You may also be considered with other academic, vocational or professional qualifications deemed to be equivalent.
For the award of MSc Advanced Biomedical Science you will generate 180 credits from the below modules.
All modules are 20 credits apart from MSc Research Project Dissertation which is worth 60 credits.
The full-time MSc Advanced Biomedical Science programme consists of six taught modules (over Terms 1 and 2) and a research project (conducted in Term 3).
Modules undertaken for the programme vary depending on your position/background.
Core modules
All students will undertake:
Stream B & C students also must take:
Stream C students also undertake:
Optional modules
*Optional work-based learning modules are available only to students who are, or have completed, an IBMS Specialist portfolio
A wide range of teaching methods are used on our Advanced Biomedical Science course.
Some of which include:
There will be strong linkages with research and employers throughout our course, for example through guest lecturers from NHS laboratories and the MSc research project.
The virtual learning environment used by UWS will facilitate many of these approaches, for example, in group projects, personal development planning (PDP), etc.
From modules common to all students:
The online study mode utilises 100% independent learning although live attendance for some online assessments will be required on occasion.
Assessment on the programme has moved away from traditional unseen exams to other forms of assessment.
Forms of assessment include:
£18,000 Total cost of tuition
£2,570 per module (20 credits)
*This is mandatory for those on Distance Learning mode.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/postgraduate-course-search/advanced-drone-technology:
September intake: 1 year full-time, typically 2 years part-time January (2026) intake: 1.5 years full-time, typically 2 years part-time
Lanarkshire: January, September
Students gain practical skills across the entire drone lifecycle, from flight operations and risk assessment to data assurance and the design of bespoke processing and analysis pipelines.
The programme also includes a professional pilot certification, ensuring graduates are equipped to operate confidently in regulated environments.
Drawing on strong industry connections, the course offers internships with leading organisations, providing students with valuable real-world experience.
Learners can tailor their studies around emerging fields such as artificial intelligence, cybersecurity, software engineering, and remote sensing.
These opportunities are underpinned by the Drone Systems Laboratory at UWS, a centre of excellence that grants access to advanced facilities, live projects, and expert teaching, ensuring students gain hands-on expertise and a competitive edge in the field.
Graduates will be well-prepared for a variety of high-demand roles, including drone operations specialist, remote sensing analyst, autonomous systems engineer, and computer vision specialist.
Industries such as environmental monitoring, agriculture, transport, and defence offer significant opportunities, alongside emerging domains like space and urban mobility.
While the core focus is drone technology, the broader expertise in robotics, artificial intelligence, and software engineering means these skill sets can be transferred to fields like autonomous vehicles, robotics, smart manufacturing, and IoT systems.
Graduates may also opt to pursue further research or doctoral studies, taking advantage of their interdisciplinary training to explore innovative frontiers in emerging technologies.
Professor James Riordon, Programme Leader for MSc Advanced Drone Technology.
Do not worry if your qualifications are not listed here, we take a range of factors into account when assessing your application and are happy to consider other alternative combinations of qualifications and experience
If you are applying with an EU or non-EU qualification, please check our Postgraduate Entry Requirements page, which gives more information about country-specific entry requirements.
The MSc Advanced Drone Technology programme is organised into four pillars, combining core and optional modules to deliver a comprehensive curriculum with both foundational knowledge and specialised expertise, tailored to your career aspirations.
The MSc Advanced Drone Technology emphasises active, hands-on learning, blending work-based projects, practical lab sessions, and collaborative coursework.
Throughout the programme, students tackle industry-focused challenges, develop real-world drone applications, and gain the professional skills employers demand.
Instead of traditional exams, assessment is centred on project outcomes, technical demonstrations, and presentations.
This practical approach not only deepens students’ understanding and critical thinking but also helps them forge professional networks, giving graduates a strong foundation for career success.
£8,000 per year of study

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/postgraduate-course-search/education-studies-part-time:
Our MEd Education Studies is offered as a part-time, fully online programme taught over 3-6 years.
It offers existing education practitioners the opportunity to study Education at Masters level where you can apply your learning to your professional context.
This Masters framework is focused on preparing students to make a difference in their professional educational/training setting and beyond.
Teaching and learning is underpinned by cutting edge research, informed by a national and global perspective.
You can exit with a generic award of MEd Education Studies or you can complete one of the named specialisms available (see below for full details of each named specialism):
This pathway is intended for teachers and other professionals working with learners in primary, secondary and tertiary education as well as practitioners working within other educational and training contexts.
It is intended for professionals who wish to undertake modules across the named specialisms.
This specialism is intended for teachers and other professionals working with learners in primary, secondary and tertiary education as well as practitioners working within other educational and training contexts who are involved in working in creative and expressive art.
It is intended for those education professionals that are interested in developing their understanding of working creatively with their learners.
It will enhance professional practice in, and understanding of, current developments in the area of creativity in general and in terms of pedagogy, policy and practice specifically.
watch this video for more information on MEd EDUCATION STUDIES (CREATIVITY)
This specialism is intended for teachers and other professionals working with learners in primary, secondary and tertiary education as well as practitioners working within other educational and training contexts who are involved in the management, implementation and coordination of learning and development programmes.
watch this video for more information on MEd Education Studies (Curriculum Enhancement)
For professionals working in early years, primary, tertiary or other educational settings looking to develop expertise in UNCRC-based early years pedagogy.
watch this video for more information on MEd Education Studies (Early Years)
For professionals in mainstream or inclusive educational settings looking to develop expertise in effective inclusive educational practices.
watch this video for more information on MEd Education Studies (Inclusion)
This specialism is intended for teachers and other professionals working with learners in early years, primary, secondary and tertiary education as well as practitioners working within other educational contexts.
It is intended for leaders and aspiring leaders who are interested in developing their understanding of working with teams and leading fellow professionals.
It will enhance professional practice in, and understanding of, current developments in the area of educational leadership.
watch this video for more information on MEd Education Studies (Leadership)
This specialism is intended for teachers and other professionals working with learners in primary, secondary and tertiary education as well as practitioners working within other educational and training contexts.
Teaching and learning opportunities focus on the nature of mental health in educational (learning, teaching, training, and mentoring) environments, exploring how this might impact on learners, leaders of learning, mentors, psychologists, health professionals, managers and social workers.
watch this video for more information on MEd Education Studies (Mental Health and Education)
You must satisfy one of the following criterion:
Graduates of the UWS PGDE Primary or Secondary who gained SCQF Level 11 credits in the course of their PGDE will be able to enter the programme with advanced standing.
This Master of Education framework is focused on preparing students to make a difference in their professional educational/training setting and beyond.
This version of the MEd Education Studies is delivered fully online.
There are three distinct exit stages: Postgraduate Certificate - PgCert - (60 credits), Postgraduate Diploma - PgDip - (additional 60 credits), and MEd (additional 60 credits).
You will study one core and two optional modules, which you will select based on your specialism and interests, to achieve the Postgraduate Certificate (PgCert).
The PgCert comprises the following core module:
After successfully completing the PgCert, you will proceed to the Postgraduate Diploma (PgDip).
The PgDip comprises one further core module and two optional modules.
The PgDip comprises the following core module:
The following list of optional modules are available across the PgCert and PgDip stages:
Successful completion of the PgDip allows you to proceed to the Masters module:
Assessment methods will include :
Most of our MEd students are already in professional employment in an education or training context.
For these students, these qualifications offer an opportunity for further professional development opportunities that will enhance a CV and underpin opportunities for promotion or broadening of employment opportunities.
There are also opportunities for graduates to commence PhD research.
£600 per module (20 credits)
£1,400 per module (20 credits)

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/postgraduate-course-search/digital-marketing:
1-2 year(s) full-time
Paisley: January, September
Our MSc Digital Marketing course gives you an opportunity to build a successful career in this fast-growing global sector.
Designed in line with current industry practice to meet the growing demand for digital marketing professionals, this programme gives you an opportunity to build a successful career in this fast-growing global sector.
The surge in demand for digital marketing specialists from companies looking to quickly step up their game in this area has led to a skills shortage within the sector.
This programme will equip you with the skills, knowledge and practical experience to meet this demand.
Graduates are expected to attain senior positions in the digital marketing industry, including roles within major commercial organisations or senior roles with digital marketing agencies, either locally, nationally or internationally.
Other posts related to the sector include events, offline marketing and PR, engineering, local authorities, software development companies and FinTech companies.
The MSc Digital Marketing is delivered in partnership with the Digital Marketing Institute (DMI).
If you complete our Digital Marketing course you will have the opportunity to receive an internationally and industry-recognised digital marketing qualification.
This is in addition to you successfully completing the MSc Digital Marketing and upon successfully completing and passing a Pearson VUE exam.
The DMI is the global certification standard for digital marketing, certifying digital professionals in over 60 countries and 5 continents across the globe.
Each DMI course syllabus is validated by the DMI’s Syllabus Advisory Council made up of representatives from leading digital giants, including:
The MSc Digital Marketing, in partnership with DMI, is a truly practical Masters course aimed at creating digital marketing professionals who can add value to companies from the outset.
During the course, you will develop essential practical skills as well as develop their theoretical understanding in the field.
You will embrace, for example, Google Cloud Services and have the opportunity to use Google Apps such as Blogger, Google Analytics, and Google Webmaster tools.
You will also be introduced to popular content management systems and a variety of content development platforms and channels.
Through the variety of modules and assessments on the MSc, you will develop your own creative, digital marketing portfolio which will help you when you graduate to demonstrate your digital marketing skills to prospective employers.
Don’t worry if your qualifications are not listed here, we take a range of factors into account when assessing your application and are happy to consider other alternative combinations of qualifications and experience.
Honours Degree or Bachelors (Ordinary) Degree plus  relevant work experience.
Applicants with relevant education and work experience will be also considered on a case by case basis.
This programme is designed to develop practical and theoretical skills.
In Term 1 (September to December) students will study Digital Branding and Future Marketing and Transformational Technologies.
Each of these modules develop practical skills and outputs while applying traditional theories.
Term 2 (January to April) focuses more on the theoretical underpinnings of digital marketing, including developing creative research skills, digital communications and understanding online behaviours.
You will study 120 credits of core taught classes over one year, followed by an MSc dissertation or the ‘Developing Professional Practice’ module.
This programme includes the following modules:
Students then have the opportunity to complete either:
To prepare for the Digital Marketing Institute (DMI) online exam you will also be able to undertake the following, non-credit bearing module:
Finally, you will have the opportunity to develop, as part of the individual module assessments, an online portfolio of competencies that will sharpen your practical skills.
Assessment is 100% coursework based.
Methods will include:
Emily, Digital Marketing student
£9,000 per year of study

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/postgraduate-course-search/professional-practice:
PgCert, PgDip and MProf
Typically, the MProf requires 1.5 years full-time, and 2-3 years part-time / See below for more details and for typical PgCert and PgDip durations*
Business & Creative Industries, Computing, Engineering & Physical Sciences, Education & Social Sciences, Health & Life Sciences, Directorate of Learning and Teaching Enhancement
Ayr, Dumfries, Lanarkshire, Paisley, Online with face-to-face learning
Fully Online: January, May, September
Ayr: January, May, September
Dumfries: January, May, September
Lanarkshire: January, May, September
London: Coming soon - enquiries welcome
Paisley: January, May, September
The PgCert, PgDip and MProf in Professional Practice provides a personal, tailored learning experience, blending personal development with academic studies where you build your own programme of study.
At UWS, we understand how important it is for working professionals to keep learning in today's constantly changing world.
That's why we've created a flexible postgraduate course in Professional Practice.
This course has three levels of award for you to choose from: a Postgraduate Certificate, a Postgraduate Diploma, and a Professional Master's degree (MProf).
It's designed so that different kinds of professionals can shape their learning to fit their own goals.
For the first time, learners can choose specific classes from across a wide range of options offered by all four schools at UWS.
This means each person can create their own set of classes that fit their needs perfectly, and these will be part of the postgraduate qualification they earn.
Although learners have access to the wider postgraduate provision, through working with their personal academic advisor and the core modules they will make informed decisions around what their learning journey will look like.
This personalised approach ensures that each learner's unique needs are recognised, supported, and integrated into the qualification they receive.
Unparalleled flexibility and the ability to select your own study modules lies at the heart of the Professional Practice awards.
You will have the opportunity to select modules from across the extensive UWS postgraduate provision.
This will enable you to tailor learning to what is required to progress your career.
As you shape your own learning journey, you have the freedom to earn an overarching 'Professional Practice' award or also have the possibility to leave with a sector-specific specialisation by choosing a sector-focused pathway.
NB: even if you choose a sector-focused pathway, there is still sufficient flexibility in these courses to undertake optional modules from across all of our postgraduate module portfolio (from all academic schools) as part of your studies.
Typically, the MProf can be completed in one and one half years of full-time study and both the PgCert and PgDip require less time to complete.
NB: The use of Recognition of Prior Learning may allow for advanced standing, reducing your over-all study duration as outlined in each section below.
For those seeking to exit with a PgCert only, the following durations/study modes apply:
For those seeking to exit with a PgDip only, the following durations/study modes apply:
For those seeking to exit with a MProf, the following durations/study modes apply:
Typically, an honours degree in any subject.
Typically, a relevant bachelor's degree, or equivalent, coupled with substantial work experience, is considered.
For those without any formal qualifications, we would invite you to still register your interest with programme staff, as prior experience may equip you to find success on our programme and indicate suitability for entry.
All applicants will be supported and considered for entry to the framework to pursue the most appropriate level of study based on qualifications and/or their personal, professional, or educational experience, following guidelines with UWS’s entry requirements and admissions policy.
Academic Admissions Officers, Admissions team, the Programme Leader and/or Education Guidance Advisors will assess potential entry qualifications and applicants' suitability for study.
We are committed to inclusivity and diversity, encouraging applications from all backgrounds and identities.
In combination with core modules, you will curate your own unique selection of modules from across the extensive postgraduate catalogue of modules offered by all four schools, ensuring that your needs as an individual learner are fully recognised, supported and integrated into your personalised award.
Your award will be completely tailored towards your own needs and ambitions.
The three levels of the Professional Practice awards are:
For entry at this level, either you will either progress from the PgCert Professional Practice award (60-credit points), or apply for Recognition of Prior Learning (Accreditation of Prior Credited Learning) for advanced standing (optional, up to 60-credit points).
NB: If you are planning to exit at PgDip stage, the amount of Recognition of Prior Learning used cannot exceed 60 credits.
For entry at this level, either progress from the PgDip Professional Practice award (120-credit points), or apply for Recognition of Prior Learning (Accreditation of Prior Credited Learning) for advanced standing (optional, up to 120-credit points)
A key feature of the Professional Practice awards is that you, as an individual learner, will work with your own Personal Academic Advisor as you develop your own professional practice structured around a personalised curriculum.
Together, you identify areas of focus that will support you as you develop your own professional practice, recognising developments and changes which may emerge in your field.
Through the common core modules learning and teaching will focus on developing your reflective practice.
Each individual will identify key areas that will help them in their existing job role whilst also identifying the skills / knowledge they require to achieve future career goals.
For the remaining academic credit points, and to provide opportunities for a totally unique and personalised curriculum, you will select from a range of modules in the wider postgraduate catalogue at UWS.
This will provide you with a unique opportunity to refresh, upskill or reskill across a variety of disciplines.
As you progress, you will identify future opportunities for success in your chosen field as you develop a proposal for change, action or development in your sector and discipline.
This can then become the focus of a detailed Masters-level project.
When you enrol for a Professional Practice award, you will become a member of a dynamic and supportive inter-professional network or fellow learners.
Learners can join the network throughout the year and will come from diverse backgrounds and professional areas.
This peer community offers an exciting chance to engage, collaborate, and build professional relationships with individuals who bring unique expertise and experiences to the table.
Through active participation in group projects, peer review sessions, and online forums, you will have ample opportunities to learn from your classmates, share insights, and gain valuable feedback.
This community-based approach not only enhances the learning experience but also creates a supportive and inclusive environment where all learners can thrive and develop lasting professional connections.
Use the Link below to download details of our full-time, part-time tuition fees for Bachelor, Masters, Research, and English Language pre-sessional courses for session 2023-24.
Tuition fees below are the same for all pathways.
Fees for each stage represent the total for that stage; they are not cumulative fees.
That is, the total tuition fee for full-time PgDip is £6,420 for Scottish students.
This would include the fee for full-time PgCert studies.
Again, the MProf total tuition fee for full-time Scottish applicants is not PgCert (£3210) + PgDip (£6420) + MProf (£7500)=£17,130; but £7500 total.
Full-time:
Modular tuition fees (Face-to-face, 20-credit points):
To support your meaningful personal development, the Professional Practice awards are designed to promote critical self-awareness through a challenging and engaging curriculum.
Through this, you will be encouraged to explore approaches to creative thinking, enhanced problem-solving, and decision-making techniques, through the context of your own professional area.
Upon successful completion of your studies, you will have developed a sophisticated and nuanced approach to professional development that enables you to respond effectively to sectoral changes and wider social developments.
Armed with this valuable knowledge and expertise, you will be poised to make a significant impact in your chosen field, and to achieve success with confidence and conviction.
These awards will enable enable you to:
Do you have a question about either the content or how to apply for this course or to find out more about Recognition of Prior Learning?
Get in touch with the course team.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/postgraduate-course-search/master-of-business-administration-mba:
MBA
1-2 years full-time, typically 2-5 years part-time
Paisley, Fully online
Online: September, January, May
Paisley: September, January, May
The MBA is based at our Paisley campus, situated in a historical Scottish town with a rich culture and architectural heritage.
The campus is with travelling distance of Glasgow and has good transport links for students.
There is also the option to study our MBA programme fully online.
Your learning on the MBA is supported by AULA the virtual learning environment at UWS.
Our MBA emphasises its pedagogical approach to vicarious learning where you will identify contemporary business practices and relate these back to theories and concepts.
Key to this is peer-to-peer learning and the sharing of professional and business experience, as well as reasoning and reflection.
In doing so, we believe that this provides an integrated approach to understanding the role of business functions and the challenges faced by the discontinuous business landscape.
The use of practical examples and cases studies enables MBA graduates to develop the skills and competences needed to be successful managers.
The MBA offers four elective module choices enabling you to tailor the MBA to suit your aspirations.
The very nature of the MBA, as well as the significant peer interaction provides you with extensive networking opportunities allowing you to develop an international network of peers.
Upon graduation students may wish to continue their study through a Doctor of Business Administration, a PhD and/or Continuous Professional Development.
The MBA will develop your personal capabilities, skills and knowledge to prepare you for a career in management.
You’ll study the workings of organisations, the global environment, strategy, enterprise, current management trends and challenges, learning to apply strategic thinking to real-world scenarios.
An MBA equips graduates with a 360-degree view of their chosen industry/sector.
This level of insight is highly valuable to firms looking to recruit leaders and managers with a deep understanding of business.
Topics you may cover include:
Jason Fernandes, MBA Graduate and Investment Analyst at JB Equity
This qualification opens the door to a range of positions in all sectors, giving you the knowledge and skills to enter the industry at a managerial level.
An MBA is a recognised management qualification and is one that enables graduates to develop their management and leadership capabilities which allow them start their own business, become a business or management consultant, move up the career ladder in the sector in which they currently work or even change industries.
Some graduates may continue in education and go onto to study a higher degree like PhD or DBA.
The UWS MBA is a credible and globally recognised qualification that gives you the flexibility to achieve your aspirations or change career direction.
You will normally be expected to satisfy at least one of the following admission requirements:
You may also be considered with other academic, vocational or professional qualifications deemed equivalent.
The MBA course has a number of core modules, which will enable students to lead from within through innovation and creative thinking, shaping them into a leader for the ever-changing context of business.
The modules are interdisciplinary in nature enabling students to critically demonstrate and understand the integration of key business functions enhancing their ability to design and deliver effective organisation-wide strategies across sectors.
Students are required to complete the following three core modules:
Students undertaking the MBA will have the option one of four of the following modules:
At the dissertation stage there is an option of either the Strategic Business project or the Developing Professional Practice module which will enable students to work with an employer on a project related to Leadership
A recognised innovative feature of our MBA programme is the fact it is supported by its own virtual learning environment – Aula which provides access to MBA core materials and allows students to study and interact online with their peers.
You will be taught through a combination of:
Learning and teaching
Assessment
Assessment methods will include:
£10,335 Total cost for online study
£5,515 Dissertation only
£15,500 Total cost for study
£5,920 Total online fees for PgDip entry only
£2,180 per module (20 credits)
£1,410 per module (20 credits)
The Master of Business Administration (MBA) with Banking & Finance develops your capabilities, skills and knowledge to prepare you for an advanced career in banking.
The Master of Business Administration (MBA) with Enterprise develops your capabilities, skills and knowledge to become more creative and innovative.
The Master of Business Administration (MBA) with Leadership is for graduates who have taken their first steps in their business career and are ready to move into leadership roles.
The Master of Business Administration (MBA) with Risk Management develops your skills and knowledge in decision making theory and problem solving related to risk and resilience.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/postgraduate-course-search/human-resource-management:
1-2 years(s) full-time, typically 3 years part-time
The MSc in Human Resource Management has been designed in response to developments within the HRM sector and can lead to professional accreditation by the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD).
The MSc Human Resource Management prepares you for a successful career in HRM and enables you to take on general or specialist roles within the HRM functions of organisations globally.
This understanding will achieve improved utilisation of the human resource and facilitate greater business success and increased employee satisfaction.
It will allow you to develop and assess employment policies and support organisational development.
With the MSc Human Resource Management, you will gain a mix of specialist and generic transferable skills essential for a career in business or HRM.
A variety of teaching and learning approaches are used including lectures, tutorials, practical workshops and are focused on the practical aspects human resources.
Our highly qualified and experienced teaching staff, supported by guest speakers, will deepen your understanding of business and HRM.
Upon successful completion of the MSc HRM, you will be eligible to become an Associate Member of the CIPD automatically.
CIPD Student Membership required (see Additional Costs section below for more information.)
The MSc HRM provides students with the fundamental academic and professional knowledge, understanding and key skills required by HR professionals and will enable students to effectively contribute to dynamic businesses — may it be SMEs, national, or international organisations.
There is a deliberate attempt to expose students to the wide range of learning, teaching and assessment methods in order to assist in the development of a wide range of skills within the students, but also to achieve a wide range of programme and module learning outcomes.
In practice this means that a variety of engaging and supportive methods of teaching — such as workshop-style module delivery — and assessments are used across the programme.
There are a variety of other great reasons why studying with us benefits you:
An advantage of a gaining a qualification for a career in HRM is that most types of organisations (public, private, social enterprise organisations) need HR skills.
In larger organisations such as multinationals, the HR career can include specialist roles in e.g.
talent management, resourcing, organisation development, employee engagement, pay and rewards, as well as generalist positions such as HR business partner – a role which is also often found in small & medium sized enterprises.
As a profession, it provides a career path, with HR positions from junior levels all the way through to strategic and board level roles.
The full-time programme will be beneficial for those wishing to enter a career within the area of HRM or looking to complete the programme in a shorter space of time.
The part-time programme will be beneficial for both general managers and those working within HRM.
Graduates from this course have HRM and management roles within the NHS, Scottish Prison Service, Transport Police and SMEs.
UWS prides itself in being a Widening Access and Participation University, offering educational opportunities to people from all backgrounds.
This is also reflected in the level of support we offer our students, particularly with our Personal Tutoring approach:
Don’t worry if you do not possess the qualifications listed here or have alternative, equivalent qualifications, we take a range of factors into account when assessing your application and are happy to consider other alternative combinations of qualifications and experience.
First or second-class Honours degree, or equivalent, in social science or business-related discipline.
Applicants with a non-business related degree but with significant professional experience will also be considered.
In order to successfully complete the MSc HRM, you will undertake all core modules across three terms, with the MSc Project to be completed in term 3.
You are required to obtain 60 credits each term, amounting to 180 credits for the entire programme.
The sections below show the programme structure.
The programme is designed around the development of a fundamental understanding of HRM in term 1 (without assuming prior knowledge), and is catered for by the following core modules:
Term 2 develops a deeper understanding of various HR areas, and provides our students with the necessary skills to successfully complete their MSc Project:
Term 3 allows students to combine all the knowledge gained through the taught elements in terms 1 and 2 through the completion of the MSc Project:

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/postgraduate-course-search/music-songwritingsound-productionindustries:
MA
Ayr: September, January
Our MA Music framework provides a broad range of personalised learning experiences underpinned by professionally relevant research and enterprise that is strongly aligned to: Songwriting, Production and Music industries.
The master's will deepen your expertise in the authorship, production and distribution of popular music.
The following pathways exist:
Katelyn, MA Music (Songwriting/Sound Production/Industries)
Entry to the MA is open to those with an Honours degree (minimum lower second - 2:2) or equivalent.
Applicants may gain entry to the course where significant professional or other experience is demonstrated and deemed appropriate to the level of study.
Entry is subject to interview and presentation of a satisfactory professional portfolio only.
Those with Ordinary degrees only will be considered on the merit of their portfolio (sent as part of the application process), academic reference and successful interview.
The MA Music framework consists of a common core of three modules that provide the foundation for you to specialise in one of the three named pathways – or design your own bespoke programme (MA Music).
All modules combine theory with practice, and students bring these themes together in an extended piece of creative research in the final MA project.
For the Postgraduate Diploma (PgDip) stage, you will study the following core modules:
*Students electing for the Industries pathway may also opt for the dissertation route, in which case Creative Research (Paisley Campus) will be the prerequisite instead of Research: Critical Development.
MUSIC (SONGWRITING) PATHWAY
MUSIC (SOUND PRODUCTION) PATHWAY
MUSIC (INDUSTRIES) PATHWAY
Successful completion of the PgDip allows you to proceed to the master's dissertation module OR Master's Creative Project.
MA MUSIC (SONGWRITING) PATHWAY
MA MUSIC (SOUND PRODUCTION) PATHWAY
MA MUSIC (INDUSTRIES) PATHWAY
You can now view the Music digital showcase to see the types of opportunities available to our students as part of their MA Music (Songwriting/Sound Production/Industries) degree with UWS.
Collaboration is central to the music industries and the MA Music framework reflects this, allowing you the opportunity to specialise while developing new collaborative professional networks and approaches to interdisciplinary working.
Our graduates have gone on to enjoy fulfilling careers within the arts and the wider creative landscape, often on a sustainable self-employed basis.
Rab Allan , Graduate, Guitarist - Glasvegas

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/postgraduate-course-search/childhood-practice-ba:
part-time
X320
Ayr/online: September
New College Lanarkshire (blended): September
West College Scotland (blended): September
The BA Childhood Practice is professionally recognised by the Scottish Social Services Council (SSSC).
It is ideally suited for employed SSSC registered practitioners who wish to become registered as lead practitioners/managers.
The course is delivered in evenings and is designed to meet the Standard for Childhood Practice Revised 2015 through study of learning within childhood, leadership and management, reflective practice and research.
The degree course is delivered on a part-time basis only and the modules are delivered predominantly online for our Ayr-based cohorts (supported by academic skills and personal development sessions on Ayr campus), and in a blended-learning format for our college partner cohorts.
In addition, there is a requirement within the course to spend a period of time in another ELC centre with the purpose of investigating an aspect of practice that differs from your current practice.
Dean Armstrong, the Programme Leader for the Childhood Practice provides an insightful introduction to the programme.
In this video, Dean highlights the unique features of the programme and entry requirements.
Please note that applicants are required to have a minimum of 2 years' practitioner experience.
You must possess a relevant practitioner qualification.
You will also be required to be employed as a practitioner, normally over 16 hours per week and usually with two years’ experience and practitioner registration.
A signed statement of support is required as part of the admission process.
Interviews:
We invite all suitable applicants to a group interview process.
We operate a closing date for applications, which is the 30 th June 2024.
Incomplete applications and applications not received by the closing date will not be considered for the academic year 24/25.
The BA degree course is conducted on a part-time basis.
As part of your studies, within the Reflective Planning module, there is a SSSC requirement to spend a period of time in another ELC centre with the purpose of investigating an aspect of practice that differs from your current practice.
You will be provided with a list of possibilities, for example, working with a different age range, working in a forest/outdoors ELC centre or working with children with ASN.
In order for this to be meaningful, as part of the module assessment, students will be required to design and plan a learning experience and then spend a minimum of 4 hours in the other centre.
These hours could be undertaken as one hour over four weeks or in a one-off block.
The learning approaches are based on extending knowledge to support and enhance practice through analysis of critical incidents using problem-based learning.
The learning and assessment is embedded in work-related practice and builds upon prior learning and existing knowledge to meet the Scottish Social Services Council regulatory requirements for lead practitioner employment.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/education:
X100
If you’ve got a calling to teach, UWS’s BA Education will help you establish a career as a primary school teacher.
This degree is designed to equip you with the skills to work effectively within a primary school setting and will provide you with a broad-based education in contemporary subjects.
UWS’s BA Education also offers the flexibility of combining your studies in education with a specialism.
It provides valuable opportunities for school placement throughout each year of study, giving you the hands-on experience needed to complement your academic studies.
School placement opportunities are embedded in each year of the programme, which will provide you with the hands-on experience to complement your academic studies.
You’ll spend 30 weeks of the programme on placement.
You will also have the opportunity to undertake a placement in an additional support needs school.
We will provide opportunities to undertake additional voluntary placements in Additional Support Needs schools across Scotland.
We currently have 26 partner schools across seven local authorities.
You can undertake optional short and medium-term placements in various countries, including France, Spain and Norway.
Students who have undertaken languages modules within the programme will be offered opportunities to gain academic credit in partner institutions as part of the Year 3 programme.
One term would be spent abroad.
From early years to adult education, students gain rich experience from our innovative courses and graduate with unrivalled career prospects.
Our students gain vital skills and practical experience through work placements, preparing them for successful careers in pre-school, primary, secondary and community education.
The range of subjects across your qualifications should reflect those taught in the primary curriculum.
An offer of a place on this programme is made on the basis of your application and successful interview.
In this video, Jennifer Ellis (Programme Leader) shares valuable insights into the BA (Hons) Education programme, including helpful tips and advice for the application and interview process.
Primary school teaching is challenging, exciting and rewarding.
Our BA Hons Education is designed to equip you with the skills to become an effective primary school teacher and provide you with a broad-based education in contemporary subjects.
The BA Hons Education offers the flexibility of combining your studies in education with a specialism to enable selection from a range of qualifications, including:
Guest speakers also form part of the programme to further deepen your understanding of your subject.
Recent speakers have addressed topics such as supporting learners with hearing impairments, learners on the autistic spectrum and sectarianism.
Valuable opportunities for school placement are embedded in each year of the degree, providing hands-on experience to complement your academic studies.
You will spend 30 weeks of the programme on placement.
Your school placements include a range of primary schools within local authorities in Scotland.
In Years 1 and 2, school placements provide insights into the role of the teacher and the diverse range of professionals involved in the education and care of children and young people.
As you progress to Years 3 and 4, theoretical knowledge and the practical skills required for effective primary teaching are enhanced.
Here, you gain professional skills to enable you to lead learning in schools.
You will also have the opportunity to undertake a placement in an Additional Support Needs school.
Lectures, tutorials, workshops and use of the Moodle VLE, employing a range of learning and teaching methodologies including exposition, whole-class discussion, paired and group work, problem-based learning, student presentations, and resources such as subject-specific equipment, interactive whiteboards, and laptops will be used, as appropriate, to develop student learning and prepare them for periods of school experience.
Students will monitor their progress through target-setting and evaluation within the Reflection and Evaluation of the Standards (RETS) documentation.
Module handbooks and other material made available to students will give more detailed information on the particular learning and teaching methodologies and themes within timetabled student sessions.
This will clarify for students both their expectations for timetabled sessions, and their expectations for the overall balance of learning and teaching methodologies to be used during the module.
Placement handbooks and other very detailed materials made available to students will set out the requirements and expectations of school experience, including the maintenance of the teaching and learning file.
Eligible BA (Hons) Education graduates are guaranteed a one-year induction post that will enable you to achieve the standard required for full registration with the General Teaching Council for Scotland.
UWS graduates have gone on to teach throughout Scotland, the UK, Canada, New Zealand and in other Commonwealth and EU countries.
The BA ( Hons ) Education is highly-regarded by employers out side of education, recognising the strong personal transferable skills that our graduates have developed.
Gary Leitch, P7 Class Teacher, Auchinleck Primary School

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/postgraduate-course-search/business-management:
Graduate Diploma
1 year full time
Lanarkshire: September, January
Our Graduate Diploma (GradDip) in Business & Management is designed for international (non-EU/non-EEA) students as a pre-master's preparation course of study.
The GradDip course will help improve your subject knowledge, study skills and academic language level and prepare you for the next step in your academic career your master's degree.
Following further study, students can gain their master’s degree at UWS in:
We welcome and consider all applicants on an individual basis.
Students will study a range of taught modules to gain their Graduate Diploma, including:
Learning approaches are based on extending your knowledge to support and enhance practice through practitioner enquiry and analysis of critical incidents using problem-based learning.
Learning and assessment is embedded in work related practice and builds upon your prior learning and existing knowledge to meet the regulatory requirements for lead practitioner employment.
All modules include ‘strategy projects’ undertaken in the workplace, which develop and enhance the links between theory and practice and involve critical reflection.
There is also the opportunity to undertake research into a topic of special interest.
TEACHING & LEARNING
The programme will be delivered using a variety of learning and teaching strategies and techniques including:
Lectures, tutorials, student-led seminars, group-work, role-play, presentations, workshops, problem based learning, self-study packs, and work related learning.
The learning and teaching strategies shall utilise problem solving approaches.
Assessment strategies are designed to enhance the student’s engagement with the learning process.
As such, criteria for assessment will reflect the aim of enhancing learning flexibility.
Reflection remains an important tool for practice in the childcare sector and most assessments include an element of student reflection.
In all modules, preparation for assessment is undertaken, success criteria are shared with students in advance of assessment and students are encouraged to engage with the criteria to inform their preparation for assessment.
Feedback (oral and written) is provided by academic staff and or peers for the variety of formative tasks provided for almost all modules and summative assessments.
The assessment strategies developed for this programme aim to support the student in the process of learning and to develop the key skills of critical analysis, problem solving and synthesis.
A variety of assessment methods will be utilised across the modules and will reflect the range and balance of teaching and learning.
£11,750 Total cost of study
The first stage of the process is to create a profile; you don't have to complete the application in one session - you can complete it in stages by saving each section and return to complete it at a later date.
You will need to upload documents with your applications, which may include transcripts and degree certificates.
Before you begin your application, it is important to read the Postgraduate & Post-Experience application step-by-step guide for a smooth process.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/aerospace-engineering:
MEng: H421 / BEng: H420
Paisley: September 2026
This new course will replace the hugely successful MEng (Hons) / BEng (Hons) Aircraft Engineering over the next few years.
Building upon the strengths of Aircraft Engineering, the MEng (Hons) / BEng (Hons) Aerospace Engineering will commence with Year 1 entry only in September 2026.
The MEng (Hons) / BEng (Hons) Aerospace Engineering at UWS will provide you the opportunity to develop the knowledge and skills needed for the design, build and technological advancement of aerospace vehicles and their systems.
You will be able to explore and learn about current and new emerging technologies which includes low and zero-carbon design for commercial aviation, drone technology, jet and space propulsion systems, and more.
The degrees have been designed, with the input from regional aerospace industry, to shape the specialised skills needed for aircraft design, manufacturing, aerodynamic and structural testing, and system operation and maintenance and overhaul roles.
The increasing demand for air and space travel and also, UAV utilisation in human activity, will require engineers to maintain safety, improvement and regulations for all operating aerospace systems.
By studying Aerospace Engineering you will be a critical role player in the field of aerospace and be able to apply your learnt knowledge and skills to design and deliver new products or services using new and/or existing technologies.
You will have the opportunity to visit major aerospace organisations such as Spirit AeroSystems, British Airways, and GE Aerospace to observe first-hand the workings of cutting-edge aerospace companies.
A number of final year engineering projects may be offered in collaboration with these organisations.
MEng (Hons) Aerospace Engineering and BEng (Hons) Aerospace  Engineering are currently seeking accreditation from the Institution of Mechanical Engineers (IMechE).
This new course is replacing the MEng / BEng Aircraft Engineering which are/were both professionaly recognised by the IMechE.
The BEng (Hons) Aircraft Enigneering satisfying, in part, the exemplifying academic benchmark requirements for registration as a Chartered Engineer and also automatically satisfies, in full, the exemplifying academic benchmark requirements for registration as an Incorporated Engineer (IEng).
The MEng (Hons) Aircraft Engineering fully satisfies the exemplifying academic benchmark requirements, for registration as a Chartered Engineer (CEng).
We expect to meet IMechE professional accreditation requirements for the new MEng / BEng Aerospace Engineering moving forward and will update this entry accordingly.
The Aerospace Engineering degrees have been designed to meet the needs of Scotland’s aerospace sector, which includes companies from the Prestwick aerospace cluster such as BAE Systems, Spirit AeroSystems, Collins Aerospace, GE Aerospace, and Ryanair, and also satellite design businesses.
A shortage of aerospace engineers locally and globally means that there are significant employment opportunities.
Career options range from working on the design and manufacture of civil and military aircraft, to roles in aerodynamic and structure research, project management and many more.
As an Aerospace Engineering graduate, you’ll have a wide range of skills that are applicable not only to the traditional aerospace disciplines but also to the broad spectrum of other engineering fields.
This includes, but is not limited to, mechanical, energy, defence, offshore and automotive.
Typical employment engineering roles are found in design, manufacture, maintenance and overhaul, project management, technical analyst, certification and quality control.
Successful completion of MEng (Hons) / BEng (Hons) would allow you to progress your studies to a taught postgraduate master's (eg MSc) or research (eg MRes, MPhil, PhD) degree.
When Nathalie Samson graduated UWS she left with no less than three awards for excellence - the UWS Court Medal award for top performing student, the IMechE project prize for the best final year project and the Royal Aeronautical Society award for best BEng (Hons) Aircraft Engineering student.
In addition, Nathalie’s final-year project of designing a flexing high-lift system for aircrafts has been published in an aerospace engineering journal due to the significance and innovative results and findings, and the contributions it has made to the field of aerospace engineering development.
When Nathalie graduated UWS with a first-class BEng (Hons) in Aircraft Engineering she was already working for BAE Systems and the aerospace engineering knowledge and skills she gained during the course have helped her in her current role.
Nathalie said:
There are no advanced entry opportunities on either BEng (Hons) or MEng (Hons) course in September 2026.
Advanced entry is only possible to BEng (Hons) Aircraft Engineering Years 2 and 3 in September 2026.
Core topics covered include the design of aerospace structures and systems, aeroelasticity, aerodynamics, jet propulsion, and fluid dynamics.
The aerospace engineering design process applied to aircraft and space vehicles and their related systems is introduced along with in-depth performance analysis.
Also, numerical techniques in terms of computer-aided design (CAD), fluid dynamic and structure simulations (CFD/FEA), and computer programming are taught on practice-based Learning.
Numerical techniques are routinely used in course works and projects.
The Aerospace Engineering degrees are delivered via laboratories and software sessions to ensure you have a sound academic underpinning and the practical skills necessary to launch a successful career in this industry.
Aircraft aerodynamics and systems, materials and mathematics provide a foundation to engineering design.
Aspire for professional and career development alongside skills development in communications and IT technology.
Topics include design of aerospace structures and systems, strength of materials, vibration theory, materials and manufacturing technology, aerodynamics (theory, application and measurements), propulsion systems; as well as computer-aided design, information technology related techniques.
Aircraft design and performance; testing and measurements, aircraft design modelling (CAD); computer-based simulation and analysis techniques are introduced, along with project management skills.
Computer-aided engineering design is explored further through Finite Element Analysis (FEA) and Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD).
Aircraft Structural Analysis, Aeroelasticity, Advanced Finite Element Analysis (FEA) and Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) and a major Group Project are amongst the modules to complete the MEng (Hons) programme of study.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/engineering-management-4th-year-entry:
1 year full-time, flexible part-time
H703
The BEng (Hons) Engineering Management course sets up graduates for an engineering career in a continuous improvement, planning, supervisory or project management role.
The course will develop your technological problem solving skills and your organisational, planning and management abilities, providing you with the knowledge to successfully oversee complex engineering projects from start to finish.
This course specialises in Project Management and continuous improvement methodologies, such as Lean and Six Sigma, within an Engineering context, and Yellow Belt and Green Belt Lean Six Sigma courses accredited by the Institute of Six Sigma Professionals (ISSP) are available throughout your BEng Engineering Management studies.
ENGINEERING MANAGEMENT PROGRAMME LEADER
UWS has a long-standing reputation for producing graduates who are sought-after by industry.
Career opportunities include quality assurance and control, operations and maintenance management, facilities, health and safety, teaching and environmental management in roles such as project engineer.
UWS graduates work for leading companies including Rolls-Royce, Raytheon, Cummins, Thales, and BAE Systems.
Others have begun careers in education as secondary school teachers and lecturers in colleges and universities.
For students and companies wishing to support students on their development path, it is possible to undertake the BEng (Hons) Engineering Management degree on a part-time basis.
Up to two modules would be taken each term along with the full-time students.
This course is a top-up degree.
However, in addition to direct entry to Year 3 of the course, direct entry to Year 4 (with a degree in a relevant discipline) may also be possible to suitably qualified and experienced applicants.
Industrial experience may be considered where formal qualifications are lower than those cited below.
Ordinary Degree in Aircraft Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Architectural Technology, Engineering Systems, Mechanical Engineering, or other relevant disciplines.
The BEng Engineering Management is practically-orientated, focusing on planning and the continuous improvement of engineering applications.
You will develop your team working skills while undertaking a wide range of practical work in our industry-standard facilities.
In recent years students have taken part in group visits to industry specialists such as BAE, Tata Steel and Diageo to further deepen their understanding of the subject.
* a part-time, daytime-only delivery route is available for this course.
Topics include advanced project management, engineering and change management, quality improvement methodologies, prototyping and product testing, industrial troubleshooting, operations management, renewable energy and health and safety.
A major element of your final year focuses on group and individual industrial projects where you investigate a topic of interest and undertake industry visits to determine the validity of your project proposal.
UWS has a solid reputation for producing competent graduates who are sought after by industry.
Careers include quality assurance and control, operations and maintenance management, facilities, health and safety, teaching and environmental management in roles such as project engineer.
Lean manufacturing and continuous improvement are the growth areas in the industry.
Graduates work for blue chip companies including Rolls-Royce, Raytheon, Cummins, Thales, and BAE Systems.
Our female engineering students thrive particularly well at UWS, with many winning 'top student' awards of a UWS Court Medal in their year groups.
Our female graduates a lso excel in gaining graduate employment positions.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/nursing-studies:
BB70
The BSc Nursing Studies has been designed to be attractive to international nurses.
It is aimed at those who wish to enhance their career in nursing and will enable you to respond to the changing health needs of the people, and populations you encounter, in solution-focused and innovative ways.
As a graduate you will have with in-depth knowledge of contemporary nursing professional practice.
The course will:
This BSc course is designed to enhance your professional career, helping you develop greater critical awareness of the factors that need to be addressed in the workplace to improve the health of your clients/patients/residents.
It is aimed at encouraging you to develop a proactive attitude to addressing health and nursing-related issues.
You will develop and advance your career opportunities in nursing leadership and clinical practice.
Successful completion of BSc Nursing Studies course does not lead to automatic registration with the UK Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC).
However, completion of the BSc meets the minimum qualification requirement for registration, allowing graduates to attempt the NMC Test of Competence (ToC) examinations.
More details of the ToC can be found on the NMC website.
NMC Test of Competence
The UWS School of Health & Life Sciences at UWS offers a variety of innovative courses with hands-on experience and work in virtual and real-life ward situations.
Our modern healthcare facilities across our Scottish campuses simulate clinical environments as well as home settings to teach caring for the elderly and people with dementia.
If you’re learning in London we have face-to-face and online courses that will enable you to accelerate your career in the healthcare sector.
The School’s work on breastfeeding has been internationally recognised by UNICEF and our research into dementia policy and practice won best educational initiative at Scotland's Dementia Awards 2016.
Our students graduate ready to achieve their ambitions in the healthcare sector.
We Nursing and Midwifery Council website welcome Scottish, UK and international students and consider all applicants on an individual basis.
However this programme is primarily aimed at international students who have an existing nursing qualification from their home country.
The BSc Nursing Studies builds on the knowledge and skills you have gained in your previous nursing study and/or work experience and develops your nursing leadership and advanced clinical practice skills to help you advance your career.
In year 3 you’ll study the following modules:
In your Honours year you’ll study the following modules:
Our nursing degree use s a variety of assessment methods.
This degree is specifically designed to help you to advance in your career.
By developing leadership skills and in-depth understanding of contemporary issues in professional nursing practice you will have the knowledge and expertise to analyse and apply new approaches to improving healthcare in your normal clinical environment.
For those wishing to work in the UK National Health Service as a nurse, you will need to ap p ly to the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC ) upon successful completion of this course.
The cost of attending university is an investment in your future career.
In addition to tuition fees and living expenses, some courses involve extra costs like study materials, field trips, equipment and uniforms.
The sections below provide details of additional costs that your course may involve along with any financial support that may be available.
You can also find additional information in our Undergraduate Money, Fees & Funding section .
Students on certain degrees will incur some additional costs not covered by their tuition fees.
These could be for things like specialist equipment, study materials, work placements, graduation, membership of relevant organisations or costs related to carrying out fieldwork.
For students on course with an element of fieldwork, there may also be extra costs for travel and accommodation.
Please contact the course leader for details of the additional costs associated with this course.
Tuition fees are calculated based on where you are from and what you are studying.
Some courses also involve additional costs, such as mandatory field trips, equipment or studying abroad.
Find out how much it will cost you to study at UWS as an undergraduate student.
Scottish students studying at undergraduate level at UWS are entitled to various funds and support towards tuition fees and living costs.
Find out more.
EU students studying at undergraduate level of UWS may be eligible for SAAS funding, as well as support to meet the costs of childcare and various sources of additional funding.
Find our more.
There are several scholarship and incentive schemes available to international students studying at undergraduate level at UWS, as well as support to meet the costs of childcare and various sources of additional funding.
UWS administer a range of discretionary and childcare funds.
These are designed to support students who are experiencing financial difficulty or struggling to meet the costs of childcare.
It may mean you are no longer eligible to claim a benefit you have been receiving, or your new income from student funding may affect the amount you are able to receive.
If there isn’t a statutory source of funding for you or your course, or you are in need of additional financial support, you may wish to consider more alternative sources of funding such as trust funds and scholarships.
Choosing to become a student can have a big impact on your budget and you may need to reassess your spending to account for a reduced income.
We’ve put together some guidance to help you manage your money and make the right financial choices for you and your family.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduate-course-search/psychology:
C800
If you wish to learn about the inner workings of the mind and human behaviour, the UWS BSc Psychology degree is for you.
You’ll study the link between mind and behaviour and develop key skills in the collection, analysis and interpretation of data.
This will allow you to apply your knowledge in research and investigation processes to solve problems in real-world settings.
The UWS BSc Psychology degree is accredited by the British Psychological Society, which provides the basis for Graduate Registration.
The BSc (Hons) Psychology at UWS will prepare your career as a Chartered Psychologist.
The course carries accreditation by the British Psychological Society (BPS) and provides the basis for Graduate Registration with the BPS.
On this course you will study the human mind and associated behaviour.
As a student, you will:
These, in turn, will contribute to an understanding of the research and investigation process.
You will focus on the key areas of psychology for BPS accreditation:
You will be taught through a combination of lectures, seminars, workshops, and flipped-classrooms.
There will also be group work and independent learning through inquiry-based learning.
This is often coordinated and guided by tutors.
You will develop transferable skills such as:
Our BSc (Hons) Psychology course uses a variety of assessment methods, including:
Coursework including essays, critical review exercises, practical reports, poster and oral presentations, laboratory exercises and digital assessments.
We place greater emphasis on continuous assessment in the early stages of the course.
We then introduce you to the necessary skills to underpin the later levels of the degree.
Sharon McGregor, BSc (Hons) Psychology graduate and owner of McGregor Achievement Coaching
Our BSc (Hons) Psychology is accredited by the British Psychological Society (BPS) and provides the basis for Graduate Registration (Graduate Basis of Chartership (GBC).
BPS accreditation enables you to pursue a career in psychology once you have specialised through further postgraduate study.
Psychology graduates also use their skills and knowledge to enter a wide variety of alternative careers.
As well as specific knowledge in psychology you will also gain a range of skills that employers value such as:
As alternatives to psychology careers, many psychology graduates enter industry or commerce sectors in roles such as:
Check the British Psychological Society website for further information on psychology and careers options.
A wide range of postgraduate courses/study options exist including:

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/money-fees-funding/undergraduate-fees-funding/funding-for-scottish-students/funding-for-part-time-students:
The SAAS website has more information about the Part Time Fee Grant, including a calculator to help you work out how much they will award.
You can also download copies of the application from, which will need to be signed by the University before submission.
This confirms how many modules/credits you will be studying so should be signed by a nominated person in your School of study who is able to confirm this detail.
Talk to your employer about the support they may be able to provide.
If you are being funded by an employer, check out our information on Payment Methods and Pro Rata Charges .
By approaching a course in bite sized way, you could study what you were able to afford.
Check out our information on Payment Methods and Pro Rata Charges .
Click on the link below and you will find a lot of resources to help get you started.
When you become a student you can become eligible for childcare and discretionary funds, trust funds and scholarships.
You may also find that your entitlement to benefits can change, so use the following links to ensure you receive the financial support you are eligible for.
Whether they are called trusts, scholarships, endowments, grants or bursaries, there are many alternative sources of funding that can help.
Visit our Money and Debt Advice pages for advice on budgeting, and making your money go further.

New sentences found on https://uws.ac.uk/study/inspiring-students/preparing-for-a-career-in-care:
BSc Mental Health Nursing student Peter Cartwright had been exposed to the issue of mental health from a young age – his parents worked in the field.
And at the age of 26 when Peter was looking for a change of career he decided this was the profession for him.
“I was always fascinated with how the brain works and how mental illness can impact on quality of life,” says Peter.
“I have a passion for meeting new people and thought that I was ideally suited for a career in this area.
As soon as I started the course at UWS I knew I had made the correct choice.”
Peter highlights the practical experience he is gaining during the course through placement opportunities as being vital for his future career.
“Having the opportunity to put theory into practice is very beneficial.
The placements give you a real sense of the job and a good insight into best practice.”
Looking ahead, Peter plans on a career within addiction services and maybe even imparting his experience and knowledge on future students through lecturing further down the line.
And Peter makes special mention of the UWS lecturers he plans on emulating.
“The support from my lecturers has been fantastic – they’re approachable and extremely passionate about their subject which leads to a great learning environment.”
Find out more about our BSc Mental Health Nursing
Learn more about other Undergraduate Courses